
                               1 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

S.F. city attorney calls for boycott of Arizona over immigration law

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; State

LENGTH: 292 words


San Francisco's city attorney today called for a boycott of the state of Arizona
over newly signed legislation that outlaws illegal immigrants under state law.

City Attorney Dennis Herrera issued a statement this morning calling for a
"sweeping boycott of Arizona and Arizona-based businesses until this unjust law
is repealed or invalidated."

The Arizona law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer on Friday, makes it a state crime to
be in the country illegally. Additionally, it makes the failure to carry
immigration documents a crime and requires police officers to question those
they suspect are illegal immigrants.

Herrera called the law "draconian." He offered the services of his office to
help terminate city contracts with Arizona and businesses based there, and to
assist in any legal challenges to the law.

"Arizona has charted an ominous legal course that puts extremist politics before
public safety and betrays our most deeply held American values," Herrera said.

Herrera, whose father immigrated to the U.S. from Colombia, noted that civil
rights groups have assailed the legislation as inviting harassment and
discrimination against Latinos, whether they are U.S. citizens or not.

The Asian Law Caucus, based in San Francisco, released a statement this morning
condemning the new law.

"This law will level untold damage on the state's immigrant communities," said
Titi Liu, executive director of the caucus. "Arizona's decision legalizes racial
profiling by law enforcement and moves our entire country in the wrong
direction."

Separately, immigrant rights advocates and three San Francisco supervisors are
scheduled to rally at City Hall this morning to call for federal immigration
reform and an end to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement "abuses."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

After immigration law, Arizona faces boycott calls

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 422 words


PHOENIX   Civil rights leaders are urging organizations to cancel their
conventions in Arizona. Baseball's Arizona Diamondbacks are encountering
protesters on the road. And the AriZona iced tea company wants everyone to know
that its drinks are made in New York.

Arizona is facing a backlash over its new law cracking down on illegal
immigrants, with opponents pushing for a tourism boycott like the one that was
used to punish the state 20 years ago over its refusal to honor the Rev. Martin
Luther King Jr. with a holiday.

"The goal is to as quickly as possible bring to a shocking stop the economy of
Arizona," former state Sen. Alfredo Gutierrez said Friday as a coalition called
Boycott Arizona announced its formation.

The outcry has grown steadily in the week since Republican Gov. Jan Brewer
signed the nation's toughest law against illegal immigration. The measure makes
it a crime under state law to be in the country illegally, and directs local
police to question people about their immigration status and demand to see their
documents if there is reason to suspect they are illegal.

Many in Arizona support the law amid growing anger over the federal government's
failure to secure the border. The state has become a major gateway for drug
smuggling and human trafficking from Mexico.

Critics say the law will lead to racial profiling and other abuses, and they are
giving Arizona a public relations beating over the issue.

Groups have called on people not to fly Tempe-based US Airways, rent trucks from
Phoenix-based U-Haul or go to Suns and Diamondbacks games. A New York
congressman and others are urging major league baseball to move the 2011 All
Star Game out of Phoenix.

The cities of San Francisco and Los Angeles have talked of cutting off deals
with the state and its businesses.

Phoenix is vying for the 2012 Republican National Convention, and at least one
mayor has called on political leaders to choose a different city.

About 40 immigrant rights activists gathered outside Wrigley Field in Chicago on
Thursday, chanting, "Boycott Arizona" as the Diamondbacks opened a series
against the Cubs.

Turning the tables on the state, the Mexican government warned citizens to use
extreme caution when visiting Arizona.

Fifteen million people visit Arizona each year for vacations, conventions and
sporting events such as the Fiesta Bowl, pro golf tournaments and baseball
spring training. The state tourism office estimated that conventions and other
travel and tourist spending in Arizona brought in $18.5 billion in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Pasadena condemns Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; State

LENGTH: 115 words


PASADENA   Pasadena has passed a resolution condemning Arizona's tough new
anti-illegal immigration law.

Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco are among several cities to wage
Arizona boycotts, but Pasadena decided to take a more moderate approach.

The City Council on Monday voted 5-2 to OK the resolution, and in a separate
motion by Councilman Chris Holden the council called on Congress to immediately
take up comprehensive immigration reform.

Arizona's new law would mandate police ask for citizenship documents from those
suspected of committing a crime, as long as officers had reasonable cause to
believe the suspect was in the country illegally.

Information from: Pasadena Star-News

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday

Feds file lawsuit over Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Bob Christie Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 375 words


PHOENIX   The U.S. Justice Department has filed a lawsuit challenging the
constitutionality of Arizona's tough new law targeting illegal immigrants.

The government filed the lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Phoenix on Tuesday.

The lawsuit argues that Arizona's new measure requiring state and local police
to question and possibly arrest illegal immigrants during the enforcement of
other laws usurps federal authority.

Tuesday's action has been expected for weeks. President Barack Obama has called
the state law misguided. Supporters say it is a reasonable reaction to federal
inaction on immigration.

The law requires officers, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's
immigration status if there's a reasonable suspicion that they are in the
country illegally.

Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law in April, and it was set to go into
effect July 29. The lawsuit could delay implementation of the law.

Arizona passed the law after years of frustration over problems associated with
illegal immigration, including drug trafficking and violent kidnappings. The
state is the biggest gateway into the U.S. for illegal immigrants, and is home
to an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants.

The lawsuit is expected to be announced by Attorney General Eric Holder and
Homeland Security secretary Janet Napolitano, a former Arizona governor.

President Barack Obama addressed the Arizona law in a speech on immigration
reform last week. He touched on one of the major concerns of federal officials,
that other states were poised to follow Arizona by crafting their own
immigration enforcement laws.

"As other states and localities go their own ways, we face the prospect that
different rules for immigration will apply in different parts of the country,"
Obama said. "A patchwork of local immigration rules where we all know one clear
national standard is needed."

The law makes it a state crime for legal immigrants to not carry their
immigration documents and bans day laborers and people who seek their services
from blocking traffic on streets.

The law also prohibits government agencies from having policies that restrict
the enforcement of federal immigration law and lets Arizonans file lawsuits
against agencies that hinder immigration enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Police, activists prepare days ahead of Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper and Michelle Price Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 422 words


PHOENIX   The sheriff of Arizona's most populous county is making room in a vast
outdoor jail and determined to round up illegal immigrants to fill it. Police
from the U.S.-Mexico border to the Grand Canyon are getting last-minute
training. And protests and marches are planned throughout Phoenix.

Arizona's new immigration law takes effect Thursday, creating a potentially
volatile mix of police, illegal immigrants and thousands of activists, many
planning to show up without identification as a show of solidarity.

At least one group plans to block access to federal offices, daring officers to
ask them their immigration status.

"Our message for that day is: 'Don't comply, don't buy,' " said activist Liz
Hourican, whose group, CodePink, plans to block the driveway for immigration
offices in downtown Phoenix.

As both sides prepare, a federal judge is deciding whether to step in and block
the law. It requires officers enforcing other laws to check a person's
immigration status if they suspect the person is in the country illegally. It
also bans illegal immigrants from soliciting work in a public place.

Police across the state scrambled Tuesday to train officers, including on how to
avoid racial profiling, and plan for a potential influx of detainees.

The hardest-line approach is expected in the Phoenix area, where Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio plans his 17th crime and immigration sweep. He plans to hold
the sweep, regardless of any ruling by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton.

Arpaio, known for his tough stance against illegal immigration, plans to send
about 200 deputies and volunteers out, looking for traffic violators, people
wanted on criminal warrants and others. He's used that tactic before to arrest
dozens of people, many of them illegal immigrants.

"We don't wait. We just do it," he said. "If there's a new law out, we're going
to enforce it."

He said that the space he made in the complex of military surplus tents can
handle 100 people, and that he will find room for more if necessary.

Elsewhere in the state, police officials said they didn't expect any dramatic
events. They were busy wrapping up training sessions this week, with some
agencies saying that untrained officers will not be allowed on the streets.

Many of the state's 15,000 police officers have been watching a DVD released
this month that says that signs that might indicate a person is an illegal
immigrant include speaking poor English, looking nervous or traveling in an
overcrowded vehicle. It warned that race and ethnicity do not.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Bay Area activist working to put Arizona-style immigration law on California
ballot

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


BELMONT -- A Republican activist is raising signatures to place an Arizona-style
immigration law on the California ballot in 2012.

The proposition would require all state and local police officers to investigate
the immigration status of those they stop if they have reasonable suspicion that
the person is in the country illegally. It would make it a state crime for
illegal immigrants to seek work while concealing their immigration status. In
addition, it would make it a state crime for an employer to hire an undocumented
immigrant, whether the hiring happens intentionally or negligently.



Secretary of State Debra Bowen announced Tuesday that the proponent, Michael
Erickson, could begin collecting signatures. He must collect the signatures of
433,971 voters by April 21 in order for the initiative to qualify for the 2012
ballot.

Erickson, a Belmont resident, calls the measure the Support Federal Immigration
Law Initiative. The proposition would outlaw sanctuary city policies and allow
residents to sue any state official or agency for as much as $5,000 per day if
their policies restrict the enforcement of federal immigration laws. It also
would require all employers in the state to use E-Verify, which checks the
eligibility of workers through a federal database.

"Since we're never going to get something like this passed through the
Democrat-controlled Legislature, it's going to be we the people who are going to
make it happen," he said at a Bay Area tea party rally recently, according to a
video of the rally at the initiative's website.

Erickson said in an interview that he took the text of Arizona's law, SB 1070,
and applied it to California's penal code, and also strengthened the language to
overcome likely constitutional challenges. The Department of Justice sued over
Arizona's law this summer, causing a judge to strike down its most controversial
provisions. The Arizona law is now being argued in a federal appeals court in
San Francisco.

"We wanted to write an initiative we feel would have a better chance of passing
any legal challenges," Erickson said. "We're complying with federal law, with
federal pre-emption."

The 37-year-old recently moved to San Mateo County but has been a political
activist in the region for many years and served as the chairman of the Sonoma
County Republican Party. He is writing a book about the tea party movement. As a
student at Santa Clara University, he was a volunteer on the 1994 campaign to
pass Proposition 187, another statewide measure that sought to crack down on
illegal immigrants but became tangled in legal challenges.

For more information, go to

www.supportimmigration.org .

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Central Coast Latino leaders cry out against Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: By Shanna McCord smccord@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 549 words


SALINAS - "Unjust and unconstitutional" is how a group of Central Coast Latino
leaders characterized Arizona's new immigration law on Wednesday.

About 20 members of the Tri-County Association of Latino Elected Officials,
including a Watsonville councilman, gathered on the steps of the Monterey County
government building on Alisal Street in Salinas to condemn the sweeping law that
targets illegal immigration, and call on the agriculture industry to boycott
Arizona.

Watsonville Councilman Antonio Rivas said in addition to the agriculture
boycott, he will ask the council to pass a resolution at its meeting next week
that would ban any city employee from attending a work-related conference or
meeting in Arizona.

Rivas, a teacher at Alisal High School in Salinas, said Arizona's immigration
law promotes discrimination of Latinos and violates their civil rights.

"We defeated the French now we have to defeat this law. This is our new battle,"
said Rivas, who noted the significance of holding the rally on Cinco de Mayo.
"Really, we're appalled at what's going on in Arizona." Arizona's law makes what
is already a federal offense - being in the country illegally - a state offense.

Supporters say the law is designed to pressure the state's estimated 460,000
illegal immigrants to leave the country and save taxpayer money.

Police would be required to question people about their immigration status if
there is reason to suspect they're in the country illegally.

Monterey County Supervisor Simon Salinas said the law would make any Latino
suspect.

"Arizona's law is unconstitutional. It's egregious," Salinas said. "We know the
value of undocumented workers to our community. We ask that this law be
condemned." Many Central Coast farmers, part of the region's No. 1 industry,
depend on desert conditions to grow fruits and vegetables in the winter. A large
portion of the perennial growing cycle involves moving produce production to
Yuma, Ariz. and other desert towns in Arizona, California and Mexico.

Santa Cruz County Farm Bureau President John Eiskamp, a raspberry and blackberry
grower, said his organization would not endorse the Arizona boycott proposed by
the Latino leaders.

"As crucial as that region is to the vegetable industry, I don't see a boycott
as economically feasible," Eiskamp said Wednesday. "That is an important part of
a grower's business. It's the most effective way of producing produce
year-round. There's more effective ways to affect change than giving up part of
your business." The Tri-County Association of Latino Elected Officials is a
5-year-old organization representing leaders in Santa Cruz, Monterey and San
Benito counties.

Santa Cruz City Councilman Tony Madrigal is vice president of the group,
however, he was unable to attend the Salinas rally because of work obligations.
Still, Madrigal believes the Arizona law only instills fear in immigrant
communities, including those communities in California.

"There's a renewed fear that leads to further distrust between immigrant
communities, the greater community and law enforcement," Madrigal said. "We need
all the trust and two-way dialogue we can get between people and law
enforcement. We're dealing with bigger problems with all the gang violence
plaguing our community. We need peace, we need harmony."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: The truth about Arizona's immigration law

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 700 words


If Arizona's new immigration law is supposed to be the best thing since warm
tortillas, why do supporters have to prop it up by engaging in falsehoods and
scare tactics? Let me count the ways:

The law bans racial profiling. Truth: Racial profiling is already banned by
federal statute, yet it happens. The Arizona law requires that once local and
state police make contact with someone for an alleged infraction, they must
determine legal status if they have "reasonable suspicion" that the person is in
the country illegally. It is naive to assume an officer can make that call
without taking race into account.

Arizona is being invaded. The law is a cry for help. Truth: No, it's a claim to
victimhood. Our society is full of people who duck responsibility for their
actions by playing the victim. Now states are doing it. Arizona has illegal
immigrants because Arizonans hire them. Take away the "help wanted" sign, and
they won't come.

The federal government is doing nothing to stop illegal immigration. Truth: The
Obama administration deported more illegal immigrants last year than the Bush
administration did in its final year in office. There are 20,000 Border Patrol
agents, more than any other federal law enforcement agency. The Border Patrol
budget was $3 billion last year and it has increased almost tenfold since 1992.
Not exactly an "open border" policy.

The scope and intent of the law have always been clear. Truth: Supporters like
to forget that there have been two versions of the law. The first was defective
and had to be fixed one week after it was signed by Gov. Jan Brewer.

The law is no different from laws in other states, such as California, that
require police to "cooperate" with Border Patrol officers and allow them to
inquire as to citizenship. Truth: (1) Cooperating with the Border Patrol isn't
the same as impersonating Border Patrol agents; (2) California Penal Code 834b
pertains to "any person who is arrested." In Arizona, you need not be under
arrest to be interrogated.

The Arizona law is a carbon copy of federal law. So, it can't be
unconstitutional. Truth: The problem is how the law will be implemented. Under
existing federal statutes, immigrants may have their citizenship questioned, but
only by federal agents. Under the Arizona law, that power is extended to local
police. Many legal scholars believe this to be clearly unconstitutional because
immigration policy is a federal responsibility and not something that can be
done piecemeal by individual states.

The presence of immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, inevitably leads to
more crime. Truth: For a variety of reasons, as the immigrant population
increases, crime rates go down. For one thing, immigrants aren't as bold and
defiant as people think. Various researchers who studied the rise in immigration
during the 1990s concluded that cities with increased numbers of immigrants had
the most significant drops in crime rates.

Americans show identification to cash checks, board planes, drive cars, etc.
This is no different. Truth: In such transactions, we're asking for a privilege
or a benefit and we willingly identify ourselves to get it. It's a quid pro quo.
In Arizona, where you can be grilled for attending a house party with loud music
or being a passenger in a vehicle, the "privilege" Latinos are asking for is
simply to breathe.

Latinos won't be racially profiled. But if they were, it would be justified
given that most illegal immigrants come from Mexico and the rest of Latin
America. Truth: Supporters can't have it both ways, insisting that a practice
won't occur while justifying it as logical and thus likely to occur.

This law makes Arizonans safer. Truth: Quite the opposite. By sending illegal
immigrants underground, Arizona has created a pool of ready-made victims who can
be preyed upon at will because they won't report crimes to police.

If supporters of the Arizona law truly believe in this legislation, they should
ditch their list of disingenuous talking points and start speaking honestly. It
would do wonders for their credibility -- not to mention the credibility of the
dubious law they support.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday

Letters from Cupertino Courier readers

BYLINE: From Cupertino courier readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 831 words


Immigration reform needs a path to citizenship

This month, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against Arizona's
Senate Bill 1070, which allows state law enforcement officials to stop,
question, detain and report individuals based on suspicion of undocumented
status. Outrage against this bill is pervasive. Some say it hearkens back to Jim
Crow; others say it legalizes racial profiling.

We understand Arizona's itch to initiate immigration reform given its estimated
460,000 undocumented immigrants, exposure to cross-border drug and gun traffic
and frustration with feds' foregoing legislation for decades. There are four
glaring reasons, however, why this approach is grossly misguided.

First, the constitutionality of SB 1070 is dubious. The key legal issue,
according to the American Civil Liberties Union, Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund and the National Immigration Law Center all of whom are
challenging the law's constitutionality is whether Arizona's state law
interferes with the U.S. government's duty to handle immigration. This is
exactly what sunk Proposition 187, a similar initiative in California.

Proposition 187 was a ballot initiative passed in 1994 and designed to prohibit
undocumented immigrants from accessing social services, health care and public
education. It was found unconstitutional by a federal court on the grounds that
regulation of immigration is a federal responsibility. Arizona might soon find,
too, that federal law pre-empts its immigration laws. Already, an Arizona police
officer has filed a lawsuit against the bill, and now the Justice Department has
filed a lawsuit challenging SB 1070's constitutionality. Legal precedent alone
should be sufficient to shut this bill down based on unconstitutionality.

Second, Arizona's attempt to fix immigration is financially unsound. Imagine if
the U.S. followed Arizona's footsteps and sent new immigrants packing. (It's
hard to imagine who sends whom packing as we all immigrated at some point in
recent history). Rather than giving immigrants a clear path to legal citizenship
because immigrants who become citizens pursue higher-paying jobs and higher
education, thus spending more and providing higher tax revenue imagine sending
all undocumented immigrants home. The cost to our economy would be crippling,
with losses of $2.6 trillion in gross domestic product during the next 10 years.

Conversely, a commitment to comprehensive reform would net our economy $1.5
trillion over the same period. (This is UCLA data.) By signing SB 1070,
Arizona's governor thinks she is saving jobs and helping the local economy. The
opposite is true. She will run the state further into debt. Arizona already
faces one of the most severe state budget crises in America, spending roughly
$10.1 billion while collecting only $6.4 billion in revenues.

Third, SB 1070 is ineffective in accomplishing its super-ordinate goal. By
treating undocumented immigrants as criminals, it ensures that immigrants
without papers stay far from police. This makes it far more difficult for police
to do their work, which is why Arizona's Sahuarita Police Chief John Harris, on
behalf of the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police, came out against the
bill. And why Harris and Pima County Sheriff Clarence Dupnik voiced concerns
about the law's vague provisions allowing citizens to sue officials for failing
to enforce the bill, putting pressure on police to undertake racial profiling.
Either way, this law allows for ample abuse, sends hard-working immigrants into
the shadows and undermines the relationship between local law enforcement and
the community.

Fourth, the tenor of Arizona's law takes our nation backward, not forward. With
this bill, we are going further from American ideals. Consider the Japanese
internment camps during World War II, where we dehumanized an entire race that
had recently arrived and was actively contributing to our economy.

We have since then seen an increase in the freedoms on which this country was
founded, from civil rights to women's rights. This push toward further freedoms
must continue. We do that by ensuring that newly arrived immigrants are afforded
the same rights and responsibilities as the immigrants who came before them,
including a legal path to citizenship.

Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the U.S. Senate move fast to reform
immigration. We cannot afford piecemeal approaches state-by-state, nor can we
financially afford at the federal level the continued non-citizenship of 12
million undocumented immigrants. It is time we brought these newly arrived
immigrants into the light. Not for the purpose of deporting them Arizona-style,
but to bring them closer to citizenship American-style.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda

Rosario Dawson

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda is the chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American
Caucus, and Rosario Dawson is an actor and co-founder of Voto Latino. Honda
lived in one of the Japanese internment camps as a child.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda criticizes Arizona law, calls for national approach that
includes path to citizenship

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 817 words


This month, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against Arizona's
Senate Bill 1070, which allows state law enforcement officials to stop,
question, detain and report individuals based on suspicion of undocumented
status. Outrage against this bill is pervasive. Some say it hearkens back to Jim
Crow; others say it legalizes racial profiling.

We understand Arizona's itch to initiate immigration reform given its estimated
460,000 undocumented immigrants, exposure to cross-border drug and gun traffic
and frustration with feds' foregoing legislation for decades. There are four
glaring reasons, however, why this approach is grossly misguided.

First, the constitutionality of SB 1070 is dubious. The key legal issue,
according to the American Civil Liberties Union, Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund and the National Immigration Law Center all of whom are
challenging the law's constitutionality is whether Arizona's state law
interferes with the U.S. government's duty to handle immigration. This is
exactly what sunk Proposition 187, a similar initiative in California.

Proposition 187 was a ballot initiative passed in 1994 and designed to prohibit
undocumented immigrants from accessing social services, health care and public
education. It was found unconstitutional by a federal court on the grounds that
regulation of immigration is a federal responsibility. Arizona might soon find,
too, that federal law pre-empts its immigration laws. Already, an Arizona police
officer has filed a lawsuit against the bill, and now the Justice Department has
filed a lawsuit challenging SB 1070's constitutionality. Legal precedent alone
should be sufficient to shut this bill down based on unconstitutionality.

Second, Arizona's attempt to fix immigration is financially unsound. Imagine if
the U.S. followed Arizona's footsteps and sent new immigrants packing. (It's
hard to imagine who sends whom packing as we all immigrated at some point in
recent history). Rather than giving immigrants a clear path to legal citizenship
because immigrants who become citizens pursue higher-paying jobs and higher
education, thus spending more and providing higher tax revenue imagine sending
all undocumented immigrants home. The cost to our economy would be crippling,
with losses of $2.6 trillion in gross domestic product during the next 10 years.

Conversely, a commitment to comprehensive reform would net our economy $1.5
trillion over the same period. (This is UCLA data.) By signing SB 1070,
Arizona's governor thinks she is saving jobs and helping the local economy. The
opposite is true. She will run the state further into debt. Arizona already
faces one of the most severe state budget crises in America, spending roughly
$10.1 billion while collecting only $6.4 billion in revenues.

Third, SB 1070 is ineffective in accomplishing its super-ordinate goal. By
treating undocumented immigrants as criminals, it ensures that immigrants
without papers stay far from police. This makes it far more difficult for police
to do their work, which is why Arizona's Sahuarita Police Chief John Harris, on
behalf of the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police, came out against the
bill. And why Harris and Pima County Sheriff Clarence Dupnik voiced concerns
about the law's vague provisions allowing citizens to sue officials for failing
to enforce the bill, putting pressure on police to undertake racial profiling.
Either way, this law allows for ample abuse, sends hard-working immigrants into
the shadows and undermines the relationship between local law enforcement and
the community.

Fourth, the tenor of Arizona's law takes our nation backward, not forward. With
this bill, we are going further from American ideals. Consider the Japanese
internment camps during World War II, where we dehumanized an entire race that
had recently arrived and was actively contributing to our economy.

We have since then seen an increase in the freedoms on which this country was
founded, from civil rights to women's rights. This push toward further freedoms
must continue. We do that by ensuring that newly arrived immigrants are afforded
the same rights and responsibilities as the immigrants who came before them,
including a legal path to citizenship.

Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the U.S. Senate move fast to reform
immigration. We cannot afford piecemeal approaches state-by-state, nor can we
financially afford at the federal level the continued non-citizenship of 12
million undocumented immigrants. It is time we brought these newly arrived
immigrants into the light. Not for the purpose of deporting them Arizona-style,
but to bring them closer to citizenship American-style.

US Rep. Mike Honda is the chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American
Caucus, and Rosario Dawson is an actor and co-founder of Voto Latino. Honda
lived in one of the Japanese internment camps as a child.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Poll finds Californians split over Arizona law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; State; Local

LENGTH: 131 words


SACRAMENTO   A new poll finds Californians are nearly evenly divided over
Arizona's illegal immigration law.

The Field Poll released today says 49 percent of registered voters support it,
while 45 percent are opposed.

Republicans strongly favor the law, which is facing several legal challenges.
Democrats are heavily against it.

The poll finds that majorities of whites and blacks favor the law, while 71
percent of Hispanics object. Opinion in the Asian community varies by ethnic
group.

The law requires police to question suspects about their immigration status if
there is a "reasonable suspicion" the person is in the country illegally.

The telephone survey of 1,390 registered voters was conducted June 22 through
July 5. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday

Congressman: U.S. should fight Arizona immigrant law

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State

LENGTH: 354 words


PHOENIX   An Arizona congressman urged the Obama administration Sunday not to
cooperate when illegal immigrants are picked up by local police if a tough new
state immigration law survives legal challenges.

U.S. Rep. Raul Grijalva, a Democrat, and civil rights activists spoke to
thousands of people gathered at the state Capitol and called on President Barack
Obama to fight the law, promising to march in the streets and invite arrest by
refusing to comply.

"We're going to overturn this unjust and racist law, and then we're going to
overturn the power structure that created this unjust, racist law," Grijalva
said.

Obama has called the new law "misguided" and instructed the Justice Department
to examine it to see if it's legal. It requires police to question people about
their immigration status   including asking for identification   if they suspect
someone is in the country illegally. Opponents say it would lead to racial
profiling because officers would be more likely to ask people who look Latino.

Supporters have dismissed concerns about profiling, saying the law prohibits the
use of race or nationality as the sole basis for an immigration check. Gov. Jan
Brewer, who signed the measure Friday, has ordered state officials to develop a
training course for officers to learn what constitutes reasonable suspicion
someone is in the U.S. illegally.

State Sen. Russell Pearce, the Mesa Republican who sponsored the legislation,
said it's "pretty disappointing" that opponents would call on the federal
government to refuse to cooperate with Arizona authorities. "It's outrageous
that these people continue to support lawbreakers over law-keepers," Pearce said
Sunday.

Current law in Arizona and most states doesn't require police to ask about the
immigration status of those they encounter, and many police departments prohibit
officers from inquiring out of fear immigrants won't cooperate in other
investigations. The new law makes it a crime under state law to be in the
country illegally. Immigrants unable to prove they are allowed to be in the U.S.
could be arrested, jailed for up to six months and fined $2,500.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: The cadence of the Arizona-Mexico border no longer soothes the soul

BYLINE: By Marcela Davison Aviles Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 619 words


When I heard the news about the recent Arizona anti-immigration legislation, I
wondered what my family in Tucson would think. The new law requires local
authorities to detain anyone reasonably suspected of being in the country
illegally. It requires immigrants to have their authorization papers at all
times.

Arizona's governor admitted she doesn't know what an illegal immigrant looks
like. Folks in Tucson, including my mother, are fearful they will be detained
for "Living While Hispanic." I wondered if I should keep my passport in my purse
the next time I visit her.

I also wondered what my grandmother would think.

I spent my adolescence with her in Nogales, the Arizona border town where I was
born. In the 1960s, Nogales was a town where the line was merely a place people
crossed to do business, eat the local food, see relatives, buy staples, live. My
grandmother lived there.

In the '60s, I traveled to see her once a month and spend the night. Traveling
from Tucson, where my family had moved, I took the Greyhound bus to Nogales and
crossed the line to get my braces tightened at the Mexican orthodontist's shop.
My orthodontist offered the best deal in town those days   he corrected
overbites and charged in pesos.

I always traveled a day before my orthodontist visits. My grandmother met me at
the bus depot and together we walked back to her duplex, where she would make me
dinner and get ready for the trip the next day.

Grandmother's connection to the outside world was her telephone. She didn't own
a TV or a radio. We shared a bedroom and a window between our two twin beds,
which opened out onto the Mexican frontier. Her apartment was a stone's throw
from the international boundary, and there, in the evening, our entertainment
was the sound of two cultures mingling: the music of the cantinas, conversations
on the street, dogs barking, a radio playing   the cadence of the border through
a bedroom window at twilight.

In the morning after breakfast we made the little journey across the line to the
orthodontist's. Most of the time we walked   past the curios shops, the bakery,
the outdoor market, the barber shop, the tortilla store, the liquor store, past
the mayor's house, to the section of town where the medical offices were.

Everyone knew my grandmother   the round trip took hours, comprised of social
visits on our way there, and purchases on the way home, parceled out so everyone
felt the love: tequila and tortillas for my father, cajeta for us kids, and
exotic soap wrapped in black tissue with red ribbons for my mother. The
purchases were stuffed into a large carpetbag with square wooden handles. The
carpetbag was the repository of my grandmother's own stimulus package.

Border crossing guard: "Hello, Consuelo, anything to declare?"

Grandmother: "Just tequila and tortillas."

"How many bottles of tequila?"

"Two." (One for her, one for Dad.)

"How many kilos of tortillas?"

"One." (None for her, one for Dad.)

"Anything else? Any fruit or vegetables?"

"Jes   two." (Mangoes, in addition to soap, for Mom.)

And the cop would smile, my grandmother would smile, and off we went, back
across the line, no need to show papers or to open the carpetbag and dig for a
passport to prove identity.

Then, reform was a school for high-school rebels. Then, community by any other
name was the name of my grandmother   a name that could guide leaders in Arizona
and Washington now that the cadence of the border is the sound of bullets:
Consuelo, meaning consolation, a person who provides fair treatment, and
comfort.

MARCELA DAVISON AVILES is president and CEO of the Mexican Heritage Corp., which
produces the San Jose Mariachi and Mexican Heritage Festival. She wrote this
article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday

Patch of California cracks down on illegal immigrants

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 762 words


MURRIETA -- Protests erupted across Southern California last year when Arizona
adopted its tough immigration law: Immigrant rights advocates staged rallies in
cities like San Diego and Santa Barbara; Los Angeles severed economic ties with
Arizona.

But just 50 miles east of Los Angeles, a handful of cities have started
crackdowns similar to those in Arizona on businesses that hire illegal
immigrants.

In what may be the single most Democratic state in the country, with a huge,
fast-growing Latino population, the area known as the Inland Empire -- a sprawl
of suburbs, old and new, about an hour east of Los Angeles -- has emerged as a
pocket of ideological resistance in a state that has grown increasingly averse
to crackdowns on immigration.

In late December, Murrieta became the fifth Inland Empire city to require all
businesses to check the legal status of new employees with E-Verify, an online
federal government system designed to confirm employment eligibility. Businesses
that do not comply could lose their licenses.

Just north of a highway immigration checkpoint, Murrieta and Temecula, where an
E-Verify ordinance took effect last week, are cities with white-majority
populations, surrounded by agricultural wine-growing areas. With unemployment
near 15 percent in much of the Inland Empire, locals say illegal immigrants have
inundated industries like fast-food and construction, leaving American citizens
unable to find jobs. Their complaints echo some of those that helped lead to the
crackdown in Arizona.

"We're a conservative area, and we've had an outcry from our citizens," said
Mayor Jeff Comerchero of Temecula. "Americans should be filling American jobs."

In most parts of the country, E-Verify is mandatory only for businesses that
have federal contracts. But Comerchero and others have embraced the system as a
way to curb illegal immigration by reducing the lure of jobs.

Immigrant rights advocates question the accuracy of the system, and a law
mandating use of E-Verify in Arizona has been challenged in the U.S. Supreme
Court.

Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights
of Los Angeles, said increasing voluntary use of E-Verify had led to a spike in
abuse of illegal workers.

"When undocumented workers are laid off, they still find employment," Salas
said. "But they often end up in underground cash economies, where we see some of
the worst labor abuses."

California has for decades been at the forefront of the churning debate on
immigration, and changes in policies and public opinion have mirrored the
state's increasingly Latino makeup.

Not long ago, California spearheaded some of the nation's toughest immigration
laws. In 1994, voters approved Proposition 187, which denied illegal immigrants
most government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care. The
measure was later ruled unconstitutional.

Since then, however, the state's demographics have shifted, with Latinos now
making up 37 percent of the population.

Jane Junn, a professor of political science at the University of Southern
California, said the growth of the Latino population had made hard-line
immigration laws no longer politically viable in California. Republicans who
advocated punishment for businesses that hire illegal immigrants, like last
year's senatorial candidate, Carly Fiorina, failed in statewide races, in part,
Junn said, because of their immigration policies.

"The state of California is very progressive on immigration relative to the rest
of the country, even Republicans," Junn said. "Attitudes have changed
tremendously since 1994, but the demographics have also changed dramatically."

Temecula and Murrieta have Latino populations about half as large in percentage
as the state as a whole. Still, conservatives hope they can pass a similar
E-Verify law covering all of the Inland Empire's Riverside County, whose
population is more than 40 percent Latino. If they succeed, the law could have
implications for agricultural industries that have historically employed many
immigrants, legal and illegal.

Brian Nestande, the Republican state assemblyman who represents Temecula and
Murrieta, said that he supported use of E-Verify, but that he would not commit
to supporting a requirement.

"A lot of industries here have run on illegal immigration," Nestande said. "Work
is here and available, and that's a magnet for illegal immigrants. But I would
like to see a more comprehensive approach, which also involves securing our
border, and dealing with people who are already here whether we like it or not."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

Gretchen Sierra-Zorita: American food movement must speak out on immigration

BYLINE: By Gretchen Sierra-Zorita Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 678 words


State anti-immigration laws are disrupting our food production system, and no
one in the American food movement is speaking out. Failure to join the
immigration debate will limit the movement's ability to influence immigration
laws that could transform the American diet.

Agriculture's dependency on illegal workers came into plain view when untold
numbers walked off Alabama farms last month. They were scared off by HB 56, the
state anti-immigration law that allows police to arrest anyone found without
proof of immigration status during routine stops. The workers could not be
replaced, and the harvest was left to rot.

HB 56 backfired because the law was based on pure politics rather than sound
policy. State legislators assumed that by making the state inhospitable to
illegal immigrants, they would free up jobs for the 9.8 percent currently
unemployed in Alabama. They did not realize, however, that most Americans do not
have the aptitude or stamina for the low-paying jobs that illegal immigrants are
willing to take.

The impact of the Alabama immigration fiasco on its farming economy has been
widely reported. Yet the usually loquacious food intelligentsia has remained
surprisingly quiet on the subject of Alabama.

The food movement is a loose and sometimes contentious alliance of experts and
advocates interested in improving the quality and availability of food. It
includes well-known figures like writer Michael Pollan and first lady Michelle
Obama, as well as many unknown individuals.

Over the last decade, movement leaders have railed against methods of industrial
food production that foster environmental damage, labor abuses, and food-borne
illnesses. Food activists have connected the dots between federal farm subsidies
that keep corn and soy farmers in business, stimulate overproduction of cheap
feedlot meat and processed foods and fuel American obesity. They have convinced
many of us that fresh food tastes better, that gardening is a noble avocation
and that family meals are critical to our children's happiness and success.

The one issue the food movement has not tackled is the use of illegal manpower
to contain the already high costs of labor-intensive crops, mainly fruits,
vegetables and tree nuts. Domestically, California produces nearly half of these
crops, which account for about half of state's $38 billion in agricultural
revenues. These crops receive little federal support, and growers are sensitive
to labor costs fluctuations which constitute 30 to 40 percent of their expenses.
For most of these farmers, mechanization is not an option. Removal of
undocumented workers from the seasonal workforce will increase wage rates. Given
the scarcity of hard data, it is difficult to estimate how this increase will
manifest itself on the grocery shelves, but it does not bode well for the
calorie-rich, nutrient-poor American diet.

We have all been told that we are what we grow, but how we grow it is equally
important. Enforcement of draconian immigration laws could dramatically change
what we eat and even whether it is grown domestically. This is why immigration
reform is a food issue and this is why the food movement cannot afford to ignore
it.

Food activists need to get their hands in the dirt and press for immigration
reforms that do not jeopardize labor intensive crops nor the availability and
affordability of fresh market commodities. Refusing to grapple with the impact
of immigration reforms on the cost of food production will reinforce the
perception that the food movement mostly caters to affluent socio-economic
elites and not to ordinary Americans. Preserving this elitist image will make
the food movement's agenda increasingly irrelevant to the very people they are
trying to win over and serve.

Gretchen Sierra-Zorita is project director of Media Diversity Initiatives at the
National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts. She wrote this for this newspaper.

GRETCHEN SIERRA-ZORITA is project director of Media Diversity Initiatives at the
National Hispanic Foundation for the Arts. She wrote this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

California Senate leader: Tear up contracts with Arizona over immigration law

BYLINE: By Denis C. Theriault dtheriault@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 380 words


SACRAMENTO   How's this for border insecurity?

In another swipe at Arizona and its strict new anti-immigration rules,
California Senate leader Darrell Steinberg on Tuesday asked Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger to "deliver an unequivocal message" of disgust by tearing up the
state's contracts with Arizona businesses and government agencies.

Arizona's new law, which allows police to demand identification from anyone
reasonably believed to be an undocumented immigrant, has spawned a maelstrom of
emotions since its approval last week   from quiet applause from those who
support the crackdown to protests and boycott shouts, including San Francisco's
move Tuesday to ban city workers from traveling to the state on official
business.

Steinberg, in a withering letter to the governor, called the new rules
"unconscionable" and a recipe for "racial profiling." Noting energy agreements
with Arizona as well as deals to send the state California's overflow prisoners,
he urged Schwarzenegger to take action.

"The state of California should not be using taxpayer dollars to support such a
policy," the Sacramento Democrat wrote.

The move may largely wind up symbolic. Severing many of the contracts may not be
legally possible, although Steinberg also has called for a ban on new contracts.

In a quick compilation provided Tuesday, the Department of General Services
found deals with 73 Arizona entities worth $10.3 million. But officials said
that doesn't include all contracts, including those held by Caltrans, state
universities or the prison system, so the real number may be much larger. The
state has a $700 million contract with a private prison firm that houses
California inmates in several out-of-state prisons, including three in Arizona.

Arizona lawmakers, hunkered down to wrap up their work this season, didn't
return messages seeking comment about Steinberg's threat.

Schwarzenegger's office says it will explore Steinberg's idea   but not if it
makes California's own money problems worse. Schwarzenegger, who doesn't support
the Arizona law, would rather the federal government take action. More
important, he said, he doesn't want any of California's prisoners to come home.

"I don't want to get them back," he said. "I want to send more."

Contact Denis C. Theriault at 916-441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Los Angeles approves Arizona boycott over immigration law

BYLINE: By Christina Hoag Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 614 words


LOS ANGELES   Los Angeles on Wednesday became the largest city yet to boycott
Arizona over its tough new law targeting illegal immigration in a move that
likely will affect some $8 million in contracts with the state.

The City Council voted 13-1 to bar Los Angeles from conducting business with
Arizona unless the law is repealed. The vote followed an emotional council
discussion during which many members noted that their ancestors were U.S.
immigrants.

Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa already has said he would approve the boycott.

The proposal could affect investments and contracts worth as much as $52
million, including contracts for airport, harbor and trucking services,
according to a report from the city's chief legislative analyst. That report
recommends the council consider suspending travel, cutting contracts and
refraining from making any new ones with Arizona-based companies.

But Councilwoman Janice Hahn, who co-authored the resolution, said it would be
impractical to cancel most of those deals and only about $7 million to $8
million in city contracts probably would be affected.

"US Airways is based in Arizona and they certainly fly in and out (of Los
Angeles)" and it would hardly be feasible to end those flights, Hahn said before
the council vote.

Hahn said the Los Angeles boycott also won't affect the city's Department of
Water and Power, which has wind farm and nuclear energy contracts in Arizona.
Among the contracts with Arizona companies that conceivably could be terminated
include those for helicopter services, Taser guns, waste management, engineering
and surveillance equipment.

Hahn said "the best scenario" would be to turn around and give those contracts
to California suppliers.

The resolution claims that Arizona's new law encourages racial profiling and is
unconstitutional. The law, set to take effect July 29, requires police enforcing
another law to question a person about his or her immigration status if there is
"reasonable suspicion" that the person is in the United States illegally and
makes it a state crime to be in the country illegally. Several lawsuits seeking
to block its implementation are pending in U.S. District Court in Phoenix.

Some polls have shown strong popular support for the Arizona law and critics are
concerned that other states may follow up with their own versions.

Several cities across the country have passed resolutions or urged boycotts to
protest the law, including California cities such as Oakland and San Diego. A
nonbinding resolution approved Tuesday by San Francisco city supervisors urges a
boycott of Arizona-based businesses and asks sports leagues not to hold
championship games or tournaments there.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said the boycotts are unfortunate and misguided,
primarily because the law mirrors a federal requirement that legal immigrants
carry immigration papers.

"It's already the law in the United States, and I have a responsibility to stand
up and protect the people of Arizona and we will do that," Brewer said Tuesday.

Charges that the law will lead to racial profiling are "just pure rhetoric,"
Brewer said.

"I find it really interesting that we have people out there that are attempting
a boycott in favor of illegal actions in Arizona. That to me is just
unbelievable."

Of the resolution in Los Angeles, Hahn said: "We want to stand back and say that
we're against it. We're hoping that Arizona will be the last state to do this
instead of just the first state to do it."

The city staged a similar economic boycott against South Africa during apartheid
and against Colorado after voters in 1992 passed a state law repealing local
ordinances that banned discrimination against homosexuals.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this Monday, April 10, 2006 picture, immigration rights supporters
hold a rally in downtown Los Angeles. Arizona's sweeping new law empowering
police to question and arrest anyone they suspect is in the U.S. illegally is
finding little support in the other states along the Mexican border. Among the
reasons given: California, New Mexico and Texas have long-established,
politically powerful Hispanic communities and deeper cultural ties to Mexico.
But perhaps the biggest reason of all is that the illegal flow of people across
the border is seen as a more acute problem, and a more dangerous one, in
Arizona. (AP Photo/Kevork Djansezian)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Mexico's Calderon criticizes Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Jim Abrams Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 234 words


WASHINGTON (AP)   Mexican President Felipe Calderon took his opposition to a new
Arizona immigration law to Congress on Thursday, saying it "ignores a reality
that cannot be erased by decree."

Calderon's comments on the Arizona law and his request that Congress do
something about the availability of high-powered weapons along the border drew
criticism from several lawmakers saying he was interfering in U.S. internal
matters.

The Mexican leader also told lawmakers reluctant to take up the immigration
issue this year that comprehensive immigration reform is crucial to securing the
two countries' common border.

Calderon, the first foreign national leader to address Congress this year, said
he strongly disagrees with the Arizona law that requires police to question
people about their immigration status if there's reason to suspect they are in
the country illegally.

"It is a law that not only ignores a reality that cannot be erased by decree but
also introduces a terrible idea using racial profiling as a basis for law
enforcement," he said to cheers, mainly from the Democratic side of the chamber.

Speaking in English, he warned of the risk when "core values we all care about
are breached."

And broaching another highly sensitive issue, Calderon urged Congress to restore
a ban on assault weapons, saying easy access to high-powered weapons is
contributing to drug-related violence along the border.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday

Clinton comment on immigration law riles Arizona gov

BYLINE: By Amanda Lee Myers Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 241 words


PHOENIX   Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer said Thursday that she's angry over comments
by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that the Obama administration will
sue the state over its new immigration law.

In a June 8 media interview in Ecuador that began circulating Thursday in the
United States, Clinton said President Barack Obama thinks the federal government
should determine immigration policy and that the Justice Department "will be
bringing a lawsuit against the act."

Justice spokeswoman Tracy Schmaler on Thursday declined to say whether the
department would sue and that "the department continues to review the law."

The department has been looking at the law for weeks for possible civil rights
violations, with an eye toward a possible court challenge.

Brewer, a Republican, said in a statement that "this is no way to treat the
people of Arizona."

"To learn of this lawsuit through an Ecuadorian interview with the secretary of
state is just outrageous," she said. "If our own government intends to sue our
state to prevent illegal immigration enforcement, the least it can do is inform
us before it informs the citizens of another nation."

The law requires police investigating another incident or crime to ask people
about their immigration status if there's a "reasonable suspicion" they're in
the country illegally. It also makes being in Arizona illegally a misdemeanor,
and it prohibits seeking day-labor work along the state's streets.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday

Arizona immigration law hearing ends with no ruling

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 843 words


PHOENIX   Arizona shouldn't have to suffer from the country's broken immigration
system when it has 15,000 police officers who can arrest illegal immigrants,
state attorneys argued Thursday in the first major hearing on challenges to a
strict new immigration law.

John Bouma, an attorney representing the state, said federal authorities haven't
done an adequate job of lessening Arizona's immigration woes, such as criminal
immigrants who have assaulted police officers.

But allowing Arizona to carry out its own immigration law violates all court
decisions that hold that only the federal government can handle immigration,
said Stephen Montoya, an attorney for Phoenix police Officer David Salgado, who
filed the lawsuit.

"The federal government doesn't want this assistance," she said.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton didn't rule on whether to block the law from
taking effect July 29, or whether to dismiss the lawsuit, one of seven.

Attorneys for Gov. Jan Brewer told Bolton that the lawsuit   filed by Phoenix
Police Officer David Salgado and the statewide nonprofit group Chicanos Por La
Causa   should be dismissed because Salgado and the group lack legal standing to
sue and that there's no valid claim of immediate harm.

But Salgado's attorney disagreed.

"He does have a real threat," attorney Stephen Montoya said. "They can fire him.
That's enough."

Hearings on the six other lawsuits, including one filed by the federal
government, are set for next week.

Protesters and supporters of the law gathered outside the courthouse, separated
by at least seven Phoenix police officers carrying guns and handcuffs.

About two dozen supporters, many dressed in red, white and blue, held up signs
praising Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, a major backer of the crackdown on
illegal immigrants, and one that said "American Pride."

Larry Templeton, 66, of Sun City, said he came to support the law because he
believes in defending states' rights.

"They're saying it's racist. It isn't anti any race, it's anti-criminal," said
Templeton, who wore an American flag T-shirt and a hat with American flag
buttons.

About 10 feet away, some 30 people opposed to the law held up signs calling for
its repeal.

"We demand an injunction. We demand a federal intervention," opponent Sandra
Castro of Phoenix, 22, yelled into a bullhorn.

The law requires police, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's
immigration status if officers have a reasonable suspicion that the person is in
the country illegally.

Supporters say the law was needed because the federal government hasn't
adequately confronted illegal immigration in Arizona, the busiest illegal
gateway for immigrants into the United States. Opponents say the law would lead
to racial profiling and distract from police officers' traditional roles in
combating crimes in their communities.

Montoya said the U.S. Department of Justice's separate challenge to the Arizona
law bolsters his clients' argument that the state law is unconstitutional. Both
lawsuits contend the state law intrudes on the federal government's
constitutional authority to set and enforce immigration policy and regulation.

"That's one more opinion," said John Bouma, a private attorney representing
Brewer. "The fact that they brought the claim doesn't mean they are correct."

The large ceremonial courtroom at the main federal courthouse in Phoenix was
packed with more than 100 spectators as the hearing began. More than a dozen
lawyers were in place along two L-shaped tables, evenly divided between each
side. The jury box was filled with law clerks for judges who work in the
building who came to observe.

Since Brewer signed the measure into law April 23, it has inspired rallies in
Arizona and elsewhere by advocates on both sides of the immigration debate. Some
opponents have advocated a tourism boycott of Arizona.

It also led an unknown number of illegal immigrants to leave Arizona for other
American states or their home countries and prompted the Obama administration to
file a lawsuit seeking to invalidate the law.

Salgado's attorneys argue the judge should block the law before it takes effect
because it would require an officer to use race as a primary factor in enforcing
the law and because the state law is trumped by federal immigration law.

Attorneys for Brewer asked that the officer's lawsuit be thrown out because
Salgado doesn't allege a real threat of harm from enforcing the new law and
instead bases his claim on speculation. They also said the state law prohibits
racial profiling and that it isn't trumped by federal immigration law because it
doesn't attempt to regulate the conditions under which people can enter and
leave the country.

The other challenges to the law were filed by the U.S. Department of Justice,
civil rights organizations, clergy groups, a researcher from Washington and a
Tucson police officer.

Bolton plans to hold similar hearings July 22 in the lawsuits filed by the
federal government and civil rights groups.

Associated Press Writers Paul Davenport and Michelle Price contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

Judge's last-minute ruling guts key parts of Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud and Amanda Lee Myers Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 618 words


PHOENIX (AP)   A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts
of Arizona's immigration law from taking effect, delivering a last-minute
victory to opponents of the crackdown.

The overall law will still take effect Thursday, but without the provisions that
angered opponents   including sections that required officers to check a
person's immigration status while enforcing other laws.

The judge also put on hold parts of the law that required immigrants to carry
their papers at all times, and made it illegal for undocumented workers to
solicit employment in public places. In addition, the judge blocked officers
from making warrantless arrests of suspected illegal immigrants.

"Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies to determine the
immigration status of every person who is arrested burdens lawfully-present
aliens because their liberty will be restricted while their status is checked,"
U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton ruled.

She ruled that the controversial sections should be put on hold until the courts
resolve the issues. Other provisions of the law, many of them procedural and
slight revisions to existing Arizona immigration statute, will go into effect at
12:01 a.m.

The ruling came just as police were making last-minute preparations to begin
enforcement of the law and protesters were planning large demonstrations to
speak out against the measure. At least one group planned to block access to
federal offices, daring officers to ask them about their immigration status.

The volume of the protests will likely be turned down a few notches because of
the ruling by Bolton, a Clinton appointee who suddenly became a crucial figure
in the immigration debate when she was assigned the seven lawsuits filed against
the Arizona law.

Lawyers for the state contend the law was a constitutionally sound attempt by
Arizona   the busiest illegal gateway into the country   to assist federal
immigration agents and lessen border woes such as the heavy costs for educating,
jailing and providing health care for illegal immigrants.

Opponents argued the law will lead to racial profiling, conflict with federal
immigration law and distract local police from fighting more serious crimes. The
U.S. Justice Department, civil rights groups and a Phoenix police officer had
asked the judge for an injunction to prevent the law from being enforced.

"There is a substantial likelihood that officers will wrongfully arrest legal
resident aliens under the new (law)," Bolton ruled. "By enforcing this statute,
Arizona would impose a 'distinct, unusual and extraordinary' burden on legal
resident aliens that only the federal government has the authority to impose."

The law was signed by Republican Gov. Jan Brewer in April and immediately
revived the national debate on immigration, making it a hot-button issue in the
midterm elections.

The law has inspired rallies in Arizona and elsewhere by advocates on both sides
of the immigration debate. Some opponents have advocated a tourism boycott of
Arizona.

It also led an unknown number of illegal immigrants to leave Arizona for other
American states or their home countries.

Federal authorities who are trying to overturn the law have argued that letting
the Arizona law stand would create a patchwork of immigration laws nationwide
that would needlessly complicate the foreign relations of the United States.
Federal lawyers said the law is disrupting U.S. relations with Mexico and other
countries and would burden the agency that responds to immigration-status
inquiries.

Brewer's lawyers said Arizona shouldn't have to suffer from America's broken
immigration system when it has 15,000 police officers who can arrest illegal
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUMMIT, AZ - JULY 27: A boy wears buttons opposing Arizona's new
immigration enforcement law SB 1070 on July 27, 2010 in Summit, Arizona. The
law, which is to go into effect Thursday, has caused considerable fear in
Arizona's Latino community that it will result in racial profiling by police
against Hispanics. (Photo by John Moore/Getty Images)
Vendors sell newspapers at the Nogales Port of Entry in Nogales, Sonora, Mexico,
Wednesday, July 28, 2010. Arizona's new immigration law SB1070 takes effect
Thursday, July 29. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
Ernesto Fiscal, foreground, and other illegal immigrants, who were deported to
Mexico early Wednesday morning, gather near the Nogales Port of Entry in
Nogales, Sonora, Mexico, Wednesday, July 28, 2010. Arizona's new immigration law
SB1070 takes effect Thursday, July 29. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
A group of illegal immigrants who were deported to Mexico early Wednesday
morning gather near the Nogales Port of Entry in Nogales, Sonora, Mexico,
Wednesday, July 28, 2010. Arizona's new immigration law SB1070 takes effect
Thursday, July 29. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday

Arizona files appeal as sheriff launches new sweep

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud and Amanda Lee Myers Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 481 words


PHOENIX   The showdown over Arizona's immigration law played out in court and on
Phoenix's sun-splashed streets Thursday, as the state sought to reinstate key
parts of the measure and angry protesters chanted that they refused to "live in
fear." Dozens were arrested.

A federal judge's decision a day earlier to block the strict law's most
controversial elements didn't dampen the raging immigration debate.

The judge has been threatened. Protesters rallied in cities from Los Angeles to
New York. The sheriff of the state's most populous county vowed to continue
targeting illegal immigrants. Lawmakers or candidates in as many as 18 states
say they still want to push similar measures.

Along the U.S.-Mexico border, life continued as before, with officials sending
back people who were captured while attempting to cross.

In Phoenix, hundreds of the law's opponents massed at a downtown jail, beating
on the metal door and forcing sheriff's deputies to call for backup. Officers in
riot gear opened the doors, waded out into the crowd and hauled off those who
didn't move. They arrested at least 23 people, and more were detained elsewhere.

Activists focused their rage at Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the
78-year-old ex-federal drug agent known for his immigration sweeps.

Outside his downtown office, marchers chanted "Sheriff Joe, we are here. We will
not live in fear." One was dressed in a papier-mâché "Sheriff Joe" head and
prison garb.

"I'm not going to be intimidated and stopped," he said. "If I have to go out and
get in the car, I'll do it."

Sheriff's spokesman Brian Lee said deputies were able to start the sweep
Thursday afternoon and arrested four people: Two had warrants for suspended
licenses, one had a suspended license, and one was illegally carrying a firearm.
He did not know if any were illegal immigrants.

Activists, armed with video cameras and aided by others listening to police
scanners, roamed the county's neighborhoods, saying they were ready to document
any deputies harassing Hispanics.

In Tucson, 50 to 100 people on both sides of the issue gathered at a street
corner. In Los Angeles, about 200 protesters blocked a busy intersection; police
arrested about a dozen who were linked with plastic pipes and chains.

In New York, about 300 immigrant advocates rallied near the federal courthouse
in lower Manhattan.

Since Wednesday's ruling, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton has received
thousands of phone calls and e-mails. Some were positive, but others were "from
people venting and who have expressed their displeasure in a perverted way,"
said David Gonzales, the U.S. marshal for Arizona.

The protests came as Gov. Jan Brewer appealed Bolton's ruling to the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco.

Brewer, who hired attorneys to defend the law in court, hopes the court will act
quickly, saying illegal immigration remains an ongoing crisis.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday

Arizona immigration law gets its day in San Francisco court

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 595 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- The legal battle over Arizona's immigration law is coming to
the Bay Area on Monday, featuring a cast of characters that includes Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer, a panel of three federal judges and an unknown number of
protesters who promise a parade of funereal pageantry.

A day before the midterm elections and the morning after Halloween, the U.S.
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals is scheduled to hear arguments for and against
Senate Bill 1070, the attempt by Arizona lawmakers to crack down on illegal
immigration in their state.

The Obama administration took the Arizona law to court in July, arguing that the
legislation interferes with federal immigration prerogatives and violates the
U.S. Constitution, which gives Congress the power to make immigration law.
Before SB 1070 could take effect, U.S. District Court Judge Susan Bolton put its
most controversial provisions on hold, including one that required police
officers to check the immigration status of people they pull over.

An hourlong hearing Monday will allow both sides -- Arizona state attorneys and
the U.S. Department of Justice -- to present their initial arguments before a
panel of three judges. Those judges will rule, in the coming weeks or months,
whether Arizona can go forward with the law.

The case is being held in San Francisco because it is the location of the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals, the arbiter of federal appeals cases in nine western
states, including Arizona.

Brewer, who signed and has championed the law, is flying to San Francisco today,
attending the 9 a.m. hearing, then returning home hours later to continue her
re-election campaign in Arizona, her aides said. Polls show the Republican
incumbent governor leading in the race against the state's Democratic attorney
general, Terry Goddard.

Anti-1070 demonstrators will also add their voices to the mix, carrying
skeletons and flowers on a procession down Mission Street to the downtown
federal courthouse. Inspired by the Latin American holiday Day of the Dead,
which will be celebrated on Tuesday, activists said the imagery is meant to
symbolize how immigration enforcement separates families and contributes to the
deaths of migrants trying to cross the border.

Opponents of the law say it allows and encourages police to racially profile
Latinos and other people who appear to be immigrants. Proponents say the federal
government is not doing enough to stop illegal immigration in Arizona.

"The state, I think, will be arguing that what they are trying to do is simply
enforce federal law," said Elizabeth Wydra of the Constitutional Accountability
Center, which opposes the Arizona law and has filed a friend-of-the-court brief
siding with the Obama administration. "Their argument is they are tired of
waiting for immigration reform from Congress, and basically are taking matters
in their own hands."

Participants in the case have already begun speculating about the outlook of the
three-judge panel based on their past cases and life experience. Judges Carlos
Bea and John Noonan were both nominated by Republican presidents, and Richard
Paez by a Democrat. Bea is a Spanish immigrant who said he was almost wrongfully
deported decades ago, according to Arizona's Capitol Media Services. Paez is the
son of Mexican immigrants.

"Some people have said it's a bad panel for Arizona," said Wydra, a former clerk
in the San Francisco court. "I think that's simply a reflection of how strong
(the Department of Justice) argument is. The Constitution very clearly gives the
federal government power over immigration law."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Arizona defends immigration law in S.F.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 532 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Arizona's immigration law faced tough scrutiny from a federal
appeals panel Monday as the state's governor appeared in person to support the
controversial provision on the day before the election in which she's seeking
her first full term.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals signaled it was ready to toss out the
provision of Arizona's law that criminalizes the failure to carry immigration
papers showing lawful residency in the United States.

But the three-judge panel didn't tip its hand on which way it was leaning on
other provisions of the state law that touched off a national furor when Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer signed it April 23. The federal government filed a lawsuit soon
after to invalidate the measure.

U.S. Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler argued Monday that the provisions
in question violate laws making immigration enforcement the exclusive domain of
the federal government.

Among the provisions at issue is the requirement that police -- when enforcing
other laws -- must question the immigration status of people they have reason to
suspect are in the country illegally.

"It's how the state wants to use its people," said Judge Carlos Bea, appointed
to the bench by President George W. Bush. "The state can turn over an illegal to
federal officials."

Kneedler responded that requiring local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of everyone they suspect as being an illegal immigrant takes
away from their investigatory discretion. He also said the law intrudes upon
foreign policy and diplomacy, areas that are left for the federal government.

"If every state did this, we would have a patchwork of law," Kneedler said.

Arizona's Legislature passed the law after years of complaints that the federal
government hasn't done enough to lessen the state's role as the nation's busiest
illegal entry point.

Its passage ignited protests, with thousands taking to the streets of Phoenix
saying the law would lead to racial profiling. The law prompted lawsuits from
the U.S. Justice Department, civil rights groups and other opponents seeking to
throw it out.

Less than a day before the law was to take effect, U.S. District Judge Susan
Bolton blocked key provisions, including a requirement that immigrants carry
immigration papers.

On Monday, Bea told Kneedler, "I don't think you have to spend a whole lot of
time" arguing the unconstitutionality of that provision.

Bea opened the hearing by sharply questioning Arizona's lawyer John Bouma about
previous court rulings that upheld the supremacy of the federal government in
deciding immigration matters. Bouma responded that Arizona was not seeking to
change federal immigration policy.

"All Arizona is saying is play by the rules," Bouma said. "Arizona is bearing
the brunt of the federal government's failure to enforce it."

Hundreds of protesters gathered outside the federal courthouse in San Francisco
before the hourlong hearing. Opponents of the law outnumbered supporters.

Afterward, Arizona's governor, a Republican, said she intended to appeal any
adverse ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court. Illegal immigrants are overwhelming
Arizona's health care systems, schools and prisons, she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Court hints at tossing part of Arizona law

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Arizona's immigration law faced tough scrutiny from a federal
appeals panel Monday as the state's governor appeared in person to support the
controversial provision on the day before the election in which she's seeking
her first full term.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals signaled it was ready to toss out the
provision of Arizona's law that criminalizes the failure to carry immigration
papers showing lawful residency in the United States.

But the three-judge panel didn't tip its hand over which way it was leaning on
other provisions of the state law that touched off a national furor when Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer signed it April 23. The federal government filed a lawsuit soon
after to invalidate the measure.

U.S. Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler argued Monday that the provisions
in question violate laws making immigration enforcement the exclusive domain of
the federal government.

Among the provisions at issue is the requirement that police -- when enforcing
other laws -- must question the immigration status of people they have reason to
suspect are in the country illegally.

"It's how the state wants to use its people," said Judge Carlos Bea, appointed
to the bench by President George W. Bush. "The state can turn over an illegal to
federal officials."

Kneedler responded that requiring local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of everyone they suspect as being an illegal immigrant takes
away from their investigatory discretion. He also said the law intrudes upon
foreign policy and diplomacy, areas that are left for the federal government.

"If every state did this, we would have a patchwork of law," Kneedler said.

Arizona's legislature passed the law after years of complaints that the federal
government hasn't done enough to lessen the state's role as the nation's busiest
illegal entry point. Its passage ignited protests, with thousands taking to the
streets of Phoenix saying the law would lead to racial profiling. The law
prompted lawsuits from the U.S. Justice Department, civil rights groups and
other opponents seeking to throw it out.

Less than a day before the law was to take effect, U.S. District Judge Susan
Bolton blocked key provisions, including a requirement that immigrants carry
immigration papers. On Monday, Bea told Kneedler "I don't think you have to
spend a whole lot of time" arguing the unconstitutionality of that provision.

Bea opened the hearing by sharply questioning Arizona's lawyer John Bouma about
previous court rulings that upheld the supremacy of the federal government in
deciding immigration matters. Bouma responded that Arizona was not seeking to
change federal immigration policy.

"All Arizona is saying is play by the rules," Bouma said. "Arizona is bearing
the brunt of the federal government's failure to enforce it."

Judge John Noonan, appointed by President Ronald Reagan, and Judge Richard Paez,
appointed by President Bill Clinton, rounded out the appeals panel, which has no
deadline to act.

Hundreds of protesters gathers outside the federal courthouse in San Francisco
before the hourlong hearing. Opponents of the law in this politically liberal
city outnumbered supporters.

Afterward, Arizona's governor said she intended to appeal any adverse ruling to
the U.S. Supreme Court. Illegal immigrants are overwhelming Arizona's health
care systems, schools and prisons, she said.

The law and the federal lawsuit to overturn it have breathed new life into
Brewer's re-election campaign against Democrat Terry Goddard, the state's
attorney general. Brewer, a Republican, took office in January 2009 when Janet
Napolitano became Homeland Security secretary.

Brewer said the Obama administration's lawsuit was misguided because the state
law seeks only to address a growing problem in Arizona.

"We are not the enemy -- we are part of the United States," she said. "We need
more help and support."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Appeals court hints at tossing part of Arizona law

BYLINE: By Paul Elias Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News

LENGTH: 649 words


Arizona's immigration law faced tough scrutiny from a federal appeals panel in
San Francisco today as the state's governor appeared in person to support the
controversial provision on the day before the election in which she's seeking
her first full term.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals signaled it was ready to toss out the
provision of Arizona's law that criminalizes the failure to carry immigration
papers showing lawful residency in the United States.

But the three-judge panel didn't tip its hand over which way it was leaning on
other provisions of the state law that touched off a national furor when Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer signed it April 23. The federal government filed a lawsuit soon
after to invalidate the measure.

U.S. Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler argued today that the provisions in
question violate laws making immigration enforcement the exclusive domain of the
federal government.

Among the provisions at issue is the requirement that police -- when enforcing
other laws -- must question the immigration status of people they have reason to
suspect are in the country illegally.

"It's how the state wants to use its people," said Judge Carlos Bea, appointed
to the bench by President George W. Bush. "The state can turn over an illegal to
federal officials."

Kneedler responded that requiring local law enforcement officials to check the
immigration status of everyone they suspect as being an illegal immigrant takes
away from their investigatory discretion. He also said the law intrudes upon
foreign policy and diplomacy, areas that are left for the federal government.

"If every state did this, we would have a patchwork of law," Kneedler said.

Arizona's legislature passed the law after years of complaints that the federal
government hasn't done enough to lessen the state's role as the nation's busiest
illegal entry point. Its passage ignited protests, with thousands taking to the
streets of Phoenix saying the law would lead to racial profiling. The law
prompted lawsuits from the U.S. Justice Department, civil rights groups and
other opponents seeking to throw it out.

Less than a day before the law was to take effect, U.S. District Judge Susan
Bolton blocked key provisions, including a requirement that immigrants carry
immigration papers. Today, Bea told Kneedler "I don't think you have to spend a
whole lot of time" arguing the unconstitutionality of that provision.

Bea opened the hearing by sharply questioning Arizona's lawyer John Bouma about
previous court rulings that upheld the supremacy of the federal government in
deciding immigration matters. Bouma responded that Arizona was not seeking to
change federal immigration policy.

"All Arizona is saying is play by the rules," Bouma said. "Arizona is bearing
the brunt of the federal government's failure to enforce it."

Judge John Noonan, appointed by President Ronald Reagan, and Judge Richard Paez,
appointed by President Bill Clinton, rounded out the appeals panel, which has no
deadline to act.

Hundreds of protesters gathers outside the federal courthouse in San Francisco
before the hour-long hearing. Opponents of the law in this politically liberal
city outnumbered supporters.

Afterward, Arizona's governor said she intended to appeal any adverse ruling to
the U.S. Supreme Court. Illegal immigrants are overwhelming Arizona's health
care systems, schools and prisons, she said.

The law and the federal lawsuit to overturn it have breathed new life into
Brewer's re-election campaign against Democrat Terry Goddard, the state's
attorney general. Brewer, a Republican, took office in January 2009 when Janet
Napolitano became Homeland Security secretary.

Brewer said the Obama administration's lawsuit was misguided because the state
law seeks only to address a growing problem in Arizona.

"We are not the enemy -- we are part of the United States," she said. "We need
more help and support."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday

Mercury News editorial: Motive behind Arizona immigration law? Profit

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 327 words


Many voters today will be motivated by anger at politicians, whether it's over
too much spending or not enough jobs. They should be just as worried about the
things they don't see -- the unknown forces influencing decisions at all levels
of government.

National Public Radio's investigative report last week about the origins of
Arizona's immigration law, Senate Bill 1070, is one example. It turns out that
border security wasn't the only, or perhaps even the major, reason it passed.
During a December meeting in Washington at which the law was written,
representatives of the Corrections Corporation of America -- the largest private
prison company in the nation -- were in the room with Russell Pearce, the bill's
chief sponsor.

The bill attracted an unheard-of 36 co-sponsors in the Arizona Legislature, 30
of whom received contributions from the private prison industry after it was
introduced, according to NPR.

SB 1070's supporters say it's an overdue crackdown. But by potentially forcing
the incarceration of thousands more people, it would also increase the profits
of private corporations paid with tax dollars.

And it's not just Arizona. Lawmakers in two dozen other states are considering
similar laws, and many of those legislators also get contributions from the
prison industry. Wayne Calabrese, president of the Geo Group, another prison
company, recently told investors that he expected business to improve: "Those
people coming across the border and getting caught are going to have to be
detained and "... there's going to be enhanced opportunities for what we do."

The prison industry isn't the sole reason for SB 1070. Pearce and others had
been pushing similar bills for some time. But the campaign contributions could
explain the large numbers of lawmakers suddenly working so hard to pass it. Keep
that in mind as you watch politicians posturing about their plans to crack down
on illegal immigration -- or on anything else, for that matter.



LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

San Jose mayor, council members tee off on Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By John Woolfolk jwoolfolk@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 244 words


San Jose officials on Friday joined those criticizing Arizona's new law that
empowers police to detain people suspected of being in the United States
illegally.

Critics have assailed the law as a green light for officers to harass Latinos
regardless of their citizenship status. Under terms of the Arizona law, even
legal immigrants must produce proof of citizenship or legal residence on demand.

San Jose council members Ash Kalra, Madison Nguyen, Sam Liccardo and Rose
Herrera called for the city to join in boycotting Arizona by not making official
trips to the state or purchasing goods or services from companies based there.

The proposal also calls for San Jose to officially denounce the Arizona law, and
it states that the city won't report the immigration status of otherwise
law-abiding local residents to federal authorities.

The council's agenda-setting Rules and Open Government Committee will consider
the proposal Wednesday.

Separately, Mayor Chuck Reed, who heads the rules committee, emphasized that it
has long been San Jose policy that police and other city officials will not
arrest or turn in people solely for being in the country illegally.

Reed added that he believes Arizona's law will deter business growth there,
particularly in technology. He said the neighboring state has been working to
lure "green tech" companies away from Silicon Valley and pledged to use
Arizona's "mistake" to help keep jobs here.

Contact John Woolfolk at 408-975-9346.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

S.J. chief wary of Arizona law

BYLINE: By Sean Webby swebby@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 462 words


San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis, joined by a bloc of other big-city chiefs, met
Wednesday with U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in the nation's capital to
voice concerns over Arizona's new immigration law.

Davis told the Mercury News that he thought the law, which has sparked intense
debate and protests throughout the country, could damage the relationship
between Hispanics and police departments and overtax shrinking, financially
strapped departments trying to maintain public safety.

Davis said he understands the growing frustration by many Americans over illegal
immigration but worried that Arizona's law would spur similar laws in other
states, burdening local law enforcement with a federal issue.

The chief said expanding local law enforcement's role could "drive a wedge
between some communities and law enforcement" and affect public safety.

"I am very concerned that the decades of work to establish great relationships
with immigrant communities could be hampered by this," he said, citing cases in
which crime victims would be afraid to report a crime or come forward with
valuable case information at the risk of being deported.

The Arizona immigration law empowers police to stop and question anyone they
suspect of being in the country illegally. Holder, who has expressed concerns
about the law leading to racial profiling, is considering a court challenge.

Davis has had his own homegrown issues with San Jose's 300,000-plus Hispanic
population. In recent years, some have accused the police department of
targeting Hispanics by using overaggressive street crime enforcement. The
department and Davis have denied systemic racial profiling.

Patricia Diaz, executive director of SIREN, an immigrant rights organization in
San Jose, praised Davis' "leadership and initiative in bringing this issue to
the attorney general."

"On the other hand, we still have concerns among the immigrants in our community
who feel they are specifically being targeted," Diaz said. "We still have a lot
of work to do to build a better relationship between law enforcement and the
immigrant community."

Davis, who met with Holder as the head of the Major Police Chiefs Association,
said that local law enforcement agencies were required to notify federal
immigration authorities of suspects who were accused of violent felonies and
drug-related crimes.

"We don't know what this will do to the crime rate; we sense it will not help,"
Davis said. "We are talking about laying off police officers, so are we going to
pull people off the streets to deal with immigration issues instead of the
issues that people in San Jose are trying to deal with?"

The other police chiefs in the meeting were from Los Angeles, Philadelphia,
Houston, Minneapolis, Salt Lake City and Montgomery County, Md.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 13, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion: Ruling on Arizona immigration law resolves little

BYLINE: By Esther J. Cepeda

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 671 words


CHICAGO -- After a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
sided with the Justice Department in keeping parts of Arizona's immigration law
from going into effect, some interpreted the ruling as a victory against states
that would create what one advocacy group called a "racial reign of terror in
which police racial profiling is mandated." Others simply dismissed the decision
as typical of a liberal court.

But the ruling was not unanimous, and the nuanced views each of the three judges
expressed in the 87-page opinion illustrate the complex, political and sometimes
contradictory nature of our tangle of immigration laws.

The judges reviewed four aspects of the law: requiring police to question one's
immigration status after a stop or on reasonable suspicion, giving them the
power to arrest illegal immigrants for the sole purpose of deporting them,
requiring immigrants to have their documents with them at all times, and making
it a crime for illegal immigrants to work or look for a job.

Judge Richard Paez, writing the majority opinion, made clear that the case did
not hinge on whether state and local law enforcement officials would apply the
statute in a constitutional way but on whether it was their place to even
attempt to do so.

"Even state and local officers authorized "... to investigate, apprehend, or
detain immigrants do not have the authority to remove immigrants; removal is
exclusively the purview of the federal government," Paez wrote. "We do not
believe that Congress intended to grant states the authority to remove
immigrants."

Judge Carlos Bea disagreed, citing the exact same section of the law that
specifies the ways in which state officials should assist federal officials in
the "identification, apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens not lawfully
present in the United States."

In his partial concurrence and partial dissent, Bea scoffed at the idea that
local law enforcement officials should take a hands-off approach. "Congress
envisioned, intended, and encouraged intergovernmental cooperation between state
and federal agencies at least as to information regarding a person's immigration
status for the proper and efficient enforcement of federal immigration law," he
wrote.

In an interesting aside, Paez extensively outlined how the Arizona law was in
conflict with U.S. foreign policy and put the nation at risk on several fronts.

Judge John Noonan, concerned about allowing a patchwork of independent
immigration laws, backed him up. "What foreign policy can a federal nation have
except a national policy?" he asked. "That 50 individual states or one
individual state should have a foreign policy is absurdity too gross to be
entertained."

But Bea injected the street sense: "The majority would have us believe that
Congress has provided the executive with the power to veto any state law which
happens to have some effect on foreign relations, as if Congress had not weighed
that possible effect in enacting laws permitting state intervention in the
immigration field." He then brought the matter back around to the crux of the
entire issue. "Any negative effect on foreign relations caused by the free flow
of immigration status information between Arizona and federal officials is due
not to Arizona's law but to the laws of Congress."

Those would be the same laws that have yet to be discussed by Congress in an
intellectually rigorous and respectful manner, even though legal and illegal
immigrants, their advocates and enemies, and the communities they all call home
are in near-universal agreement that those very laws must be reformed in the
name of economic and homeland security.

Based on this decision, it seems that at least for the foreseeable future
Washington's message to Arizona and other states who want to take immigration
matters into their own hands is: You're not allowed to deal with illegal
immigration yourselves, only we can. And we will. Sometime. Maybe. Stand by.

ESTHER J. CEPEDA is a columnist for the Washington Post Writers Group.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

Opinion: Arizona's immigration laws have stymied economic recovery

BYLINE: By Alex Nowrasteh Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 585 words


July 29 marked the anniversary of Arizona's controversial immigration law, SB
1070, the state's toughest attempt to

SB 1070 proponents claim that it decreased the unauthorized population in the
state, and they're probably right. But for that "achievement," SB 1070 likely
slowed Arizona's recovery by increasing the regulatory burden for business and
raising the cost of hiring all workers in Arizona.

Republican Gov. Jan Brewer vetoed slews of bills that would have reduced
government expenditures and lowered taxes. The same poor fiscal policies
prevailed in New Mexico. The difference in New Mexico is that it hasn't passed
immigration regulations that burden businesses.

Arizona's economic growth has stalled, and the unemployment rate is at 9.3
percent -- higher than both the New Mexico and national unemployment rates. New
Mexico's unemployment rate has been below Arizona's since the beginning of the
Great Recession.

The regulatory business burden of SB 1070 is its most damaging component.
Sections 7 and 8 strengthened the 2007 Workers Act mandates that all businesses
use the faulty E-Verify system. According to a 2010 audit from Westat, E-Verify
fails to identify unauthorized workers 54 percent of the time and identified
some legal American workers as unauthorized.

Fundamentally, Americans should not have to ask the federal government for
permission to earn an honest living.

E-Verify has pushed unauthorized workers deeper into the black market. A 2011
report by the Public Policy Institute of California found that while Arizona's
2007 workers law decreased the unauthorized population of Arizona between 2008
and 2009, it also forced tens of thousands "into informal or underground
employment."

SB 1070 enacted a two-strike policy through which second-time business offenders
lose their business licenses for intentionally or knowingly employing
unauthorized immigrants. This law championed by conservatives makes it harder
for businesses to do what they are supposed to: lower costs and pass savings on
to consumers. Called the business death penalty, it remains a potent economic
weapon in the state's war against private property and free enterprise.

Some immigration opponents have cited an immigrant crime wave to increase
support for SB 1070. Yet when SB 1070 was passed, violent crime rates were lower
than any point since 1971, and property crime rates were the lowest since 1966,
according to Uniform Crime Reporting Statistics at the Department of Justice.
The steepest decline of all has been for the murder rate, which in 2009 was
lower than any year since 1965.

The U.S. economic slowdown and accelerated growth in Mexico have significantly
reduced Mexican emigration to the U.S. But nations like India, China, and
Central American countries will continue to send unauthorized immigrants in ever
greater numbers. Our immigration laws need to adapt to that reality, not fight a
quixotic battle against it.

After a year of SB 1070, the evidence shows that long-run solutions will come
from expanding legal immigration for peaceful healthy people, not from crushing
regulation. The federal government bears the blame for generations of bad policy
that reversed America's traditional free immigration policy. Lawmakers in
Arizona -- or any other state -- cannot fix that, and they shouldn't make the
problem worse.

ALEX NOWRASTEH is a policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute in
Washington, D.C., advocates of free markets and limited government. He wrote
this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Arizona illegal immigrant law expected to boost May Day crowds in Bay Area

BYLINE: By Linda Goldston and Vinnee Tong Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 891 words


Arizona's controversial new law that allows police to question people about
their immigration status has ignited Bay Area efforts to overhaul national
immigration laws and promises to draw the largest crowds to traditional May Day
rallies in years.

People who haven't attended such events before are expected to join activists
and families in San Jose on Saturday in a march from King and Story roads on the
East Side to a rally at San Jose City Hall. Crowds also are expected to march
through San Francisco's Mission District and Oakland's Fruitvale neighborhood.

May 1 has become an annual day of protest and activism around immigration, but
activists and some of the people who plan to attend said there is a new urgency
in their cause after Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed the nation's toughest
anti-illegal immigrant law April 23. Arizona's SB 1070 allows police to stop and
ask about a person's immigration status when they suspect the person could be in
the U.S. illegally. The law also requires immigrants to provide proof they are
in the country legally.

Many immigrants say they fear that similar laws and sentiments will spread, but
some activists said passage of the law may be the push that was needed to get
Congress to act on national immigration changes.

"One of our leaders said Arizona's law is a blessing in disguise," said Cesar
Juarez, a member of Services, Immigrant Rights & Education Network (SIREN), one
of the coalition of groups sponsoring Saturday's march and rally. "I think the
turnout will be huge."

Supporters of Arizona's law have no marches planned for Saturday but spokesmen
said they plan vigorous efforts to get their views out.

"Reform is in the eye of the beholder and we believe any legislation passed must
take place without any sort of amnesty attached to it," said Ira Mehlman,
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR). "It is
wrong to reward people who break our laws."

Yeh Ling-Ling of Orinda, executive director of the Diversity Alliance for a
Sustainable America and herself an immigrant, said she is "warning Americans
that if we pass another amnesty, we'll see an explosion of legal and illegal
immigration."

Fearing that many doors will close   not just those at the border   students are
expected en masse at this weekend's events.

Vanessa Borjas, a 17-year-old junior at Life Academy High School in Oakland, is
a leader of a prayer vigil scheduled today at the Cathedral of Christ the Light.

"States are now taking responsibility (for immigration) and it's not supposed to
be like that," said Borjas, a student leader working with the Oakland Community
Organizations. "What if other states continue doing that?"

Borjas and activists around the Bay Area said they want President Barack Obama
and lawmakers to move more quickly on a comprehensive overhaul of immigration
rules. Their hope is that the changes to federal law would stop states from
claiming oversight of immigration matters, which have been mostly the domain of
the federal government.

Without federal action, Arizona's law "is making it easy to racially profile
people," said Carlos Morante, a member of People Acting in Community Together
and a student at De Anza College. "That's what's hitting people the most. This
is going backward, not forward."

Immigrant advocates see the Arizona law as a rallying point. Andrea Mercado,
lead organizer for Mujeres Unidas y Activas in Oakland, said the new law is a
direct attack on immigrants that makes Saturday's protests even more relevant
than those in years past. Not since 2006, when more than 100,000
immigrant-rights supporters took to the streets in San Jose, has there been so
much anticipation for the turnout.

"We're putting more energy into May 1st mobilization because we can't let
attacks like what happened in Arizona continue," Mercado said. "You hear people
say the immigration system is broken, yet we continue to enforce these broken
rules and continue to tear apart families and deport people in record numbers."

But Mehlman said fears of racial profiling are wrong.

He said the law directs police officers to ask about a person's legal status
only as part of regular law enforcement duties, such as during a traffic stop
for a red light violation if the officer sees signs they could be here
illegally. Mehlman said the law does not give police officers any more power
than they already have, and it does not let them consider a person's race
exclusively as a reason for stopping them.

What matters now, said Borjas, who is a Mexican immigrant, is taking a stand and
pressing for action.

"I thought it was time to step up and speak up for what we want," she said. " I
just want to have a voice."

Contact Linda Goldston at 408-920-5862.

SAN JOSE MARCH AND RALLY: 4 p.m. Saturday,
King and Story roads to San Jose City Hall
Oakland Prayer vigil: 6:30 p.m. Friday, Christ the Light Cathedral, 2121
Harrison St.; Oakland Community
Organizations, 510-639-1441 or 510-459-8696
East Bay rally and march: 1 to 2 p.m. Saturday, Fruitvale BART plaza, 3401 E.
12th St., followed by march to Oakland federal building, 1301 Clay St.; Mujeres
Unidas y Activas, www.mujeresunidas.net
San Francisco rally and march: Assemble at noon at 24th and Mission streets,
followed by march to Civic Center Plaza at Grove and Polk streets for 2 p.m.
rally; ANSWER Coalition, www.actionsf.org

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protesters who are against current immigration bills in the U.S.
Congress march down Alum Rock Avenue in San Jose on May 1, 2006. (Dai
Sugano/Mercury News)
Protesters who are against current immigration bills in the U.S. Congress march
down Alum Rock Avenue in San Jose on May 1, 2006. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)

Thousands of protesters march down King Rd. in San Jose during a National Day of
Protest in San Jose on May 1, 2006. (Gary Reyes/Mercury News)
Left to right, Victor Cristobal, Isabel Villavicencio, and Cesar Juarez, work
together in the office of Somos Mayfair on a banner April 29, 2010 for
Saturday's Rally for Just & Humane Immigration Reform. The event will start at
Mi Pueblo Plaza in San Jose with a rally and then proceed with a march heading
north on King Road, east on Alum Rock Avenue and east on Santa Clara Street to
San Jose City Hall. Juarez is Organizing Director for Service, Immigrants Rights
& Education Network (SIREN); Villavicencio is with People Acting In Community
Together (PACT) and the Catholic Campaign for Immigration reform. (Pauline
Lubens/San Jose Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Massive rally in Los Angeles to protest Arizona's tough illegal immigrant law

BYLINE: By Elliot Spagat Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 632 words


Singer Gloria Estefan kicked off an enormous march through the streets of
downtown Los Angeles as demonstrators galvanized in opposition to Arizona's
tough law against illegal immigration demanded an overhaul of immigration laws.

"We're good people," the Cuban-born singer said aboard a flatbed truck. "We've
given a lot to this country. This country has given a lot to us."

Cardinal Roger Mahony stood on the truck and joined the crowd in chanting, "Si,
se puede," or "Yes, we can," in Spanish. Streets and sidewalks were packed with
tens of thousands of people as horns blared.

Police officials estimated about 50,000 demonstrators took to the streets. The
crowd peaked in the early afternoon and was estimated to have dwindled to about
30,000 by 2 p.m., according to Los Angeles Police Officer Rosario Herrera.

There were no arrests and no reports of injuries, Herrera said. A ground force
of officers on foot, bicycles and motorcycles were making patrols.

Police had prepared for an anticipated 100,000 people.

Organizers handed out T-shirts that read, "Legalize Arizona" and "Boycott
Arizona." Marchers waved American flags, along with many from other countries,
including Mexico, the Philippines, Nicaragua and Guatemala.

David Cho, an illegal immigrant from Korea and a student at University of
California, Los Angeles, drew loud cheers when he said he dreamed of joining the
Air Force and becoming a U.S. senator.

"I feel like I'm living inside an invisible prison cell," he said.

Many came to protest Arizona's new law requiring local and state law enforcement
officers to question people about their immigration status if there's reason to
suspect they're in the country illegally.

"If they see someone with black hair and Latino face, they're going to stop you
without any reason and ask for your papers," said Eleazar Cruz, 37, a Los
Angeles bartender from Mexico who paid a smuggler $300 to cross the border
illegally in San Diego in 1985 and later became a legal resident. "It's crazy."

Cruz participated in a massive May 1 pro-immigration march in 2006   upset at
the time by a proposed federal crackdown on illegal immigration   but was too
busy to attend the annual marches since then. The Arizona law brought him back.

"We're angry," he said.

Oswaldo Osorio, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who paid his smuggler $150 to
cross the border in San Diego 18 years ago, turned out with his wife, also in
the U.S. illegally, and their two U.S.-born daughters. All four waved American
flags.

Osorio, 38, said his family wanted to make a statement for giving immigrants
legal status and protesting Arizona's law.

Benjamin Hernandez, 44, attended his first political rally since coming to the
United States illegally 10 years ago. He lived in Arizona for two years after
paying a smuggler $1,200 to walk across the desert, then moved to Ventura to
join his father, where he works construction jobs.

Hernandez said his nephews in Arizona are upset by the law but won't leave the
state.

"I won't go visit them," he said. "They can come visit me. After working so
hard, why would I want to lose everything?"

In San Francisco, a crowd believed to be in the thousands marched through the
Mission District to a rally at the city's Civic Center.

Police were out in force, lining the route as the noisy crowd chanted and
carried signs reading "Full Rights For All Immigrants" and "Arizona's Racist
Law, We Say No!"

Juan Carlos Esteban, 37, a member of the United Service Workers West union, said
he felt the need to protest the Arizona legislation.

"That's a step backward for the whole nation," he said of the law. "It's a human
rights issue."

Noe Madrigal, 32, came out with 15 friends. He said only two of them were in the
country legally.

"That new law in Arizona is very unfair," Madrigal said. "That's racism."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 21, 2010 Friday

Is Dora the Explorer an illegal immigrant?

BYLINE: By Sophia Tareen Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 995 words


CHICAGO   In her police mug shot, the doe-eyed cartoon heroine with the bowl
haircut has a black eye, battered lip and bloody nose.

Dora the Explorer's alleged crime? "Illegal Border Crossing Resisting Arrest."

The doctored picture, one of several circulating widely in the aftermath of
Arizona's controversial new immigration law, may seem harmless, ridiculous or
even tasteless.

But experts say the pictures and the rhetoric surrounding them online, in
newspapers and at public rallies, reveal some Americans' attitudes about race,
immigrants and where some of immigration reform debate may be headed.

"Dora is kind of like a blank screen onto which people can project their
thoughts and feelings about Latinos," said Erynn Masi de Casanova, a sociology
professor at the University of Cincinnati. "They feel like they can say negative
things because she's only a cartoon character."

The depictions, whether through irony or protest, are being used by those who
oppose and support Arizona's law. On one hand she's a likable symbol who many
can relate to, and at the same time, perceived as an outsider who doesn't belong
anywhere.

It's not the first time a children's character has been dragged into a serious
debate.

In the late 1990s, Tinky Winky the Teletubby, a purple children's TV character
with a triangle antenna   was called out by Christian leaders for being gay.
Sesame Street roommates Bert and Ernie are often involved in statements on
same-sex marriage.

Both shows' producers say the characters aren't gay.

In Dora's case, especially because her image is so widely available, she's an
easy target as discussion ramps up on how lawmakers should address the estimated
12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

For about a decade, the pint-sized Latina character has taught millions of
children the English alphabet, colors and Spanish phrases on a Nickelodeon TV
show and through a global empire. Her smiling cherub face is plastered on
everything from backpacks to T-shirts to fruit snacks.

But since the passage of the Arizona law   which requires authorities to
question people about their immigration status if there's reason to suspect
they're in the country illegally   Dora's life and immigration status have been
scrutinized and mocked.

Several websites, including The Huffington Post, have narrated Dora's mock
capture by immigration authorities. One picture circulating on Facebook shows an
ad for a TV show called "Dora the Illegal Immigrant." On the Facebook page "Dora
the Explorer is soo an Illegal Immigrant," there are several images showing her
sailing through the air over the U.S.-Mexican border.

Many of the Dora images assume the Latina character is an illegal immigrant from
Mexico.

But that's where it gets complicated.

Representatives from Nickelodeon declined to comment on Dora's background, and
her place of birth or citizenship have never been clear." She has brown skin,
dark hair and speaks Spanish with an American accent.

"She's always been ambiguously constructed," said Angharad Valdivia, who teaches
media studies at the University of Illinois and has explored the issue. "In the
U.S. the way we understand race is about putting people in categories and we're
uncomfortable with people we can't put into categories."

Dora lives in an unidentified location with pyramids that suggest Mexico, but
also tropical elements such as palm trees and her friends, Isa the iguana and
Boots the monkey. Does that mean she's from South America or Florida?

Then there's oak trees and her fox nemesis Swiper, which are more common to the
American Midwest.

The show often plays Salsa-like music, which has some roots in Cuba and is
popular across Latin America.

Even the voice actresses behind Dora don't provide insight.

The original Dora voice belonged to Kathleen Herles, whose parents are from
Peru. Dora is currently voiced by actress Caitlin Sanchez, a New Jersey-born
teen who calls herself Cuban American; her grandparents are Cuban.

The images have been used on all sides of the immigration reform debate.

Many immigrant families, particularly Latinos, see Dora as a symbol of freedom,
someone to relate to. She's a young girl with brown skin who lives in a
borderless world and can travel anywhere she wants without consequence.

"It's symbolic of the way many Latinos live ambiguously in the United States,"
said Nicole Guidotti-Hernandez who teaches gender studies at the University of
Arizona. "It's a shorthand for claiming our lives in the United States,
especially for children."

At the same time, Guidotti-Hernandez says the ambiguity and negative imagery
makes Dora susceptible to being used by those who support the Arizona law.

As for the mug shot, it's been around since late last year, when Debbie Groben
of Sarasota, Fla. created it and entered it in a contest for the fake news site
FreakingNews.com .

Since debate over the Arizona law heated up the nation's immigration debate,
it's been e-mailed and texted widely and used on signs at rallies.

"My intentions were to do something funny, something and irreverent," said
Groben, who said she opposes Arizona's law. "I actually like the little kid."

The issue appears to have resonated little with Dora's biggest fans, the
millions of parents and their children who seem mostly unaware of the discussion
encircling their beloved cartoon.

Altamise Leach, who has three children, said Dora's ethnicity and citizenship
are irrelevant.

The stay-at-home mom credits the cartoon with helping teach her children team
work. She even threw her 3-year-old daughter a Dora birthday party, complete
with a Dora-like adventure, Dora cake and a woman who dressed up as Dora.

"We have so many diverse cultures, let's try to embrace everybody," Leach said.
"She puts a smile on my daughter's face, that's all I want."

Erick Wyatt said he never thought about Dora's origins and his three children
never asked.

"I just thought she was a cartoon character that spoke Spanish," the Flint,
Mich., man said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dora the Explorer(left) with Boots the Monkey. "Dora the Explorer" is a
half-hour animated children's television series starring a 7-year-old Latina
girl and her friends. The show is designed to actively engage preschoolers in a
play-along, computer-style adventure. Dora the Explorer teaches children how to
observe situations and solve problems as they explore Dora's world with her.
Along the way, kids learn basic Spanish words and phrases, as well as math
skills, music, and physical coordination. The show is highly interactive, and
Dora's young viewers are encouraged throughout the show to respond to Dora and
to actively participate in the adventure through physical movement. COURTESY
NICKELODEON.
In this composite image provided May 20, 2010 courtesy of Debbie Groben and
FreakingNews.com, is an image of Nickelodeon cartoon Dora the Explorer created
late last year by Debbie Groben of Sarasota, Fla., for a contest for the fake
news site FreakingNews.com. The image, and others like it that question or make
fun of the Latina cartoon character's immigration status and country of origin,
have been in wide circulation since Arizona passed a controversial immigration
law. Groben, who is against the immigration law, said she just created it out of
good fun and didn't know it would enter the immigration debate. (AP
Photo/Courtesy of Debbie Broben and FreakingNews.com)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

P.M. Bay Area Buzz: Santa Cruz police get I.C.E. cold on gangs; Richmond to
boycott Arizona

BYLINE: By George Kelly Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1446 words


Here are the hot stories in the Bay Area for Wednesday: After two high-profile
fatal attacks on residents, law enforcement officials in Santa Cruz are calling
on a key federal agency's help; officials in Richmond voted to follow San
Francisco and Oakland's lead and cut economic ties with Arizona; San Francisco
police will outsource its drug testing.

Richmond plans boycott of Arizona over immigration law

Richmond is joining a growing list of cities in denouncing Arizona's new
immigration law and boycotting the state until the law is repealed.

"We have here a huge number of people who would be stopped in the street if we
had this sort of law in Richmond," Vice Mayor Jeff Ritterman said. "We wouldn't
tolerate it here; we shouldn't support it anywhere." The City Council voted
unanimously Tuesday night, with Councilman Nat Bates absent, to oppose Arizona's
law and bar city workers from traveling there on behalf of the city. In
addition, Richmond won't do business with Arizona-based companies and will nix
any contracts it has now with these firms if it can do so legally. Officials
said Wednesday that they are studying how many contracts, if any, would be
affected.

The Arizona measure, which became law April 23 and was modified April 29,
touched off an emotional debate and deepened the divide on immigration issues.
It gives police authority to check documentation and detain people they suspect
of being an illegal immigrant if that person is detained or arrested in
connection with another offense.

Supporters say it's a necessary tool where other measures have proved
inadequate. Opponents fear it will lead to racial profiling of Latinos and other
minorities.

Read more of Katherine Tam's Contra Costa Times story.

Legendary Berkeley punk rock club reeling after big rent increase

Berkeley's 924 Gilman Street, the East Bay's epicenter for all things punk rock
since the late '80s, is on shaky ground after being hit with a major rent
increase.

The Berkeley all-ages club, named after its street address, will see its monthly
rent rise from $4,300 to $7,000 on July 1, says Alternative Music Foundation,
the volunteer-run nonprofit that operates 924 Gilman.

"The club's rent has been increasing every year for the last 23 years, and up
until now we've been able to make the adjustments needed to compensate for those
increases," reads a post on the venue's website, www.924gilman.org .

"But what we are facing now is the equivalent of having 20 years of rent
increases condensed into one, and once it goes into effect the clock will begin
to tick away as we struggle to generate the extra $31,000 a year needed to cover
this massive rent hike."

Read Jim Harrington's Oakland Tribune story at InsideBayArea.com.

San Jose: Police release sketch of man who grabbed female joggers

San Jose police have released a sketch of a man who has grabbed or tackled at
least five female joggers on the Saratoga Creek Trail near Archbishop Mitty High
School in the past seven months.

Since October, five girls and women between the ages of 15 and 31 have reported
being grabbed by the legs while jogging on the trail between Bollinger and Doyle
roads, according to police. Most of the incidents happened between 7:30 and 10
a.m., according to police.

In all cases, the victims encountered the man along the trail while jogging. In
one case, the man confronted the victim and wrapped his arms around her legs.

Read more of Mark Gomez's San Jose Mercury News story.

See a sketch of the suspect

See an interactive map of all crimes in the San Jose area

About 12 San Mateo County cops on list detailing tainted pasts

San Mateo County prosecutors have a list of about 12 police officers who have
histories of crime or professional misconduct that must be disclosed to defense
attorneys, an attorney said Tuesday.

Chief Deputy District Attorney Steve Wagstaffe declined to release the list of
"no more than a dozen" officers, but he said there is at least one who has a
misdemeanor DUI. None have felony, drug or violent convictions.

Wagstaffe said his office allows all these officers   with one exception   to
testify in criminal cases, but added that defense attorneys must be notified of
the cop's past. Failure to do so would leave convictions in jeopardy.

Read more of Joshua Melvin's San Mateo County Times story.

Santa Cruz police partner with U.S. Immigrations and Customs unit to fight gang
violence

The Santa Cruz Police Department has teamed up with U.S. Immigrations and
Customs Enforcement Unit to investigate recent gang-related homicides.

On the heels of two suspected gang-motivated slayings, the police department
announced Wednesday that it reached out to state and federal agencies to crack
down on gang activity in the past few weeks.

"We will tap into all available resources to curb this epidemic," Police Chief
Howard Skerry said in a press release. "There is no question in my mind that law
enforcement needs to provide a coordinated campaign to tackle gang violence in
our community.

"Our agency and our city will not stand idly by and allow this community to be
overrun by this criminal element."

Read more of Alia Wilson's Santa Cruz Sentinel story.

Read "Fighting Gangs," a Santa Cruz Sentinel special series

S.F. police chief to permanently close drug lab

San Francisco police Chief George GascÃ³n announced today that he intends to
permanently close the Police Department's scandal-marred drug lab and employ an
outside lab to do the city's drug testing, the S.F. Chronicle said.

"After extensive discussions....we have determined that we would be better
served if we took the controlled substances section of the lab and we contract
that work out to an outside lab," the chief said. He made the remarks at a news
conference where he also announced that the department's DNA lab was "well run"
and passed an audit last month by the Department of Justice.

The department shut down its drug lab on March 9 amid an ongoing investigation
into accusations that now-retired technician Deborah Madden skimmed powdered
cocaine and OxyContin from the narcotics section of the crime lab. Prosecutors
have dismissed more than 600 cases since the scandal broke.

Read more

Senate panel advances San Rafael assemblyman's bill seeking metal bat moratorium

A California legislative committee has advanced a bill seeking a two-year
moratorium on the use of metal bats in high school baseball.

The legislation by Assemblyman Jared Huffman, D-San Rafael, would allow a safety
review of the equipment.

It was introduced after 16-year-old pitcher Gunnar Sandberg of Marin Catholic
High School was struck in the head by a line drive hit off an aluminum bat.

The March incident left Sandberg with a traumatic brain injury. The boy was
scheduled to be released from the hospital on Tuesday.

Read more of this Associated Press story in the Marin Independent Journal.

Lincoln Theater and Napa Valley Symphony to merge

Lincoln Theater Napa Valley and the Napa Valley Symphony have begun the process
to formally merge their operations. The boards of directors of both
organizations voted in the fall of 2009 to form a committee to investigate the
feasibility of a merger, with a goal of conserving fiscal resources and
operating more efficiently.

The Napa Valley Symphony relocated its staff from offices on Lincoln Avenue in
Napa to the Lincoln Theater Napa Valley on April 29.

"The decision to move ahead with a combined operations business model was based
upon simple logic," Richard Aldag, executive director of both Lincoln Theater
Napa Valley and the Napa Valley Symphony said.

Read more of the story.

Vallejo's Dorothy Brown dies, her long walk to school inspired historic civil
rights case

Growing up in Vallejo, Ricky and Lewis G. Brown would read about the landmark
1954 Brown v. Board of Education civil rights case, not knowing that the case
traced their own family's history.

"She didn't talk about it too much," Lewis G. Brown, 50, said of his mother,
Dorothy Brown, who inspired her uncle to initiate a part of what would become
the historic school segregation-ending U.S. Supreme Court case.

Dorothy Brown died last week after a long illness. She was 83.

The family is preparing for a wake and funeral next week. It is expected to
bring together people from far and near to honor a woman whose family has had a
strong influence on civil rights across the country.

Read more of Shauntel Lowe's Vallejo Times-Herald story.

Check in weekday afternoons for the P.M. Bay Area Buzz, a summary of news from
Bay Area News Group staff writers, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News and
other wire services. Contact George Kelly at 925-323-8318. Follow him on Twitter
at http://twitter.com/allaboutgeorge

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Despite Arizona boycott, Richmond leaders vote to buy Tasers

BYLINE: By Katherine Tam and Karl Fischer Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 642 words


Two months after vowing to boycott Arizona over its new immigration law,
Richmond city leaders plan to buy $84,000 worth of Tasers and cartridges from an
Arizona company.

The City Council on Tuesday night voted unanimously to grant a boycott
exemption, paving the way for the Taser purchase. Mayor Gayle McLaughlin voted
for the exemption because Arizona's law does not go into effect until later this
month, she said. She hopes the U.S. Justice Department's lawsuit will stop
implementation.

"The police chief has stated these are needs he has, that it's the only place to
get it from," she said. "If (Arizona's law) starts at the end of the month and
hopefully it doesn't, we have to be rigorously enforcing" the boycott.

The Arizona measure, which was signed into law April 23 and goes into effect
July 29, gives police authority to check documentation and detain people they
suspect of being illegal immigrants if a person is detained or arrested in
connection with another offense.

Supporters say it is a necessary tool where other measures have proved
inadequate. Opponents fear it will lead to racial profiling of Latinos and other
minorities.

In May, McLaughlin and Vice Mayor Jeff Ritterman proposed a resolution opposing
Arizona's law and barring city workers from traveling there on business. The
council passed it unanimously, with Nat Bates absent. The resolution also said
the city would refrain from doing business with Arizona companies and sever
contracts with firms there, if it can do it legally.

Taser International, the manufacturer of Tasers, and Proforce Marketing, the
sole stun gun vendor for this region, are both in Arizona, police said. The
city's new three-year service agreement is for spare parts, new Tasers and
replacement cartridges at $28,000 a year.

"In my experience, Tasers that are used in a responsible way actually save
lives," police Chief Chris Magnus said. "I believe we've saved quite a few lives
here, both those of the public and within the Police Department."

The city spent more than $400,000 since 1997 to outfit police officers with
Tasers, a weapon designed to pacify through an electric shock. Concerns about
Taser deaths and the potential for long-term injury led McLaughlin to vote
against the police department's requests to purchase the weapons twice.

Richmond police have developed an extensive internal policy about use of Tasers.
A Richmond police representative will represent the city at an upcoming policy
forum about Tasers held by the Police Executive Research Forum. Magnus, who will
attend National Night Out the day of the conference, said he plans to send a
representative with a letter to Taser expressing the city's concerns about doing
business with Arizona, and asking for an alternate, out-of-state vendor for its
products.

Other cities boycotting Arizona have found similar ways to work around Taser and
other Arizona company relationships. In Sacramento, the wording of its boycott
resolution allows city departments to eschew Arizona commerce unless to do so
would create undue hardship or expense.

The San Jose City Council last month revisited its boycott policy in part
because of the Taser conundrum, ultimately providing special dispensation for
purchases of Tasers and certain other goods and services. Oakland avoided the
issue, a police spokesman said, because the department made a large order of
Tasers in 2009 and will not need more for at least two years.

Some cities back the Arizona law. Lake Elsinore city leaders passed a resolution
in support and took it a step further, adopting a city law requiring employers
run prospective employees through the federal E-Verify program to check if they
are eligible to work in this country. E-Verify is administered by the U.S
Department of Homeland Security, Citizenship and Immigration Services and Social
Security Administration.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 20, 2010 Monday

Sunnyvale Sun reader letters: Dream Act bad policy

BYLINE: From Sunnyvale Sun readers

SECTION: NEWS; Communities

LENGTH: 794 words


Editor's note: this letter is in response to a joint op-ed piece by U.S. Rep.
Mike Honda and Marcine Seid ("DREAM Act makes sense for students, country," Dec.
10).

First, providing in-state tuition rates to illegal aliens amounts to giving them
a taxpayer-financed education.

In contrast, out-of-state students pay the full cost of their education. This
gift to illegal aliens costs taxpayers a great deal of money at a time when
tuition rates are rising across the country.

The costs of these subsidies are staggering. In California, taxpayers pay more
than $50 million annually to subsidize the college education of thousands of
illegal aliens.

Second, the DREAM Act encourages aliens to violate federal immigration law.
Breaking federal law is a prerequisite for illegal aliens because state laws
expressly deny in-state tuition to legal aliens who have valid student visas.

An alien is eligible for in-state tuition only if he remains in the state in
violation of federal law and evades federal law enforcement.

Legal aliens must pay out-of-state tuition. The states are directly rewarding
this illegal behavior.

Third, not only is the DREAM Act unfair to aliens who follow the law, but they
are slaps in the faces of law-abiding American citizens.

For example, a student from Missouri who attends Kansas University and has
always played by the rules and obeyed the law is charged three times the tuition
charged to an alien whose very presence in the country is a violation of federal
criminal law.

The nation's unemployment rate stands at 9.8 percent, a post-World War II record
19th month that unemployment has been over 9 percent. President Barack Obama is
7.3 million jobs short of what he promised his failed stimulus would deliver.

The DREAM Act would legalize anywhere between 300,000 and 2.1 million illegal
immigrants.

Supporters of the DREAM Act claim the bill would provide citizenship only to
children who go to college or join the military. But all any version of the
legislation requires is that an applicant attend any college for just two years.

And if President Obama wants to reward non-citizen service members with
citizenship, he already has the power to do so.

The Secretary of Defense already has the authority under 10 U.S.C. § 504 (b) to
enlist illegal immigrants in the military if "such enlistment is vital to the
national interest," and 8 U.S.C. § 1440 allows such immigrants to become
naturalized U.S. citizens, with their applications handled at accelerated rates.

The military component of the DREAM Act is a complete red herring.

Neither of these bills has gone through their respective committees, and only
one has been scored by the Congressional Budget Office. As a result, they are
chock-full of loopholes designed by open border advocates to make an even wider
amnesty possible.

One bill would even grant Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano the
power to waive the college and military requirements if the illegal immigrant
can demonstrate "compelling circumstances" and the immigrant's removal would
cause a hardship to the them, their spouse, their parents or their children.

When exactly would removal from this country not cause a hardship? What other
loopholes are in these bills? As [former] Speaker [of the House Nancy] Pelosi
might say: "You have to pass this amnesty so that you can find out what is in
it."

The DREAM Acts are also an invitation for fraud. All of the bills would make it
illegal for any information in an amnesty application to be used to initiate
removal proceedings against an applicant.

Law enforcement agencies would be forced to prove that any information they used
to find, detain and try to remove an illegal immigrant who was already in their
files before an application was received or was not derived from the
application.

If an illegal immigrant lies about his age to qualify for the program, and the
lie is never detected, he gets amnesty.

And if the lie is found out, no worries--law enforcement is forbidden from using
that lie against him.

Our country does need immigration reform. We need smarter border security,
stronger interior enforcement, and a more efficient naturalization system. But
amnesty plans like the DREAM Act undermine real reform.

The DREAM Act encourages people to ignore our borders, undermines our law
enforcement across the country, and makes fools of law-abiding immigrants who
play by the rules.

Mike Honda's discussion is just more nonsense from the left to cloud the real
issue, amnesty for illegal aliens. The Democrats need to get this passed in the
lame duck session of Congress because it has no chance of passing in the new
Congress.

Maybe that's because most Americans don't want it. Oh, but that didn't stop the
Democrats from passing Obamacare.

Mark Fantozzi

Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 18, 2010 Friday

Whitman campaign targets Latinos in two new ads

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 680 words


Just nine days after she walloped rival Steve Poizner in the primary,
gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman launched two Spanish-language ads aimed at
repairing some of the residual damage in the Latino community by sounding a lot
less tough on illegal immigration.

The commercials, which ran Thursday during the World Cup match between Mexico
and France and will continue running on three Spanish-language networks, portray
the former eBay CEO as a friend to Latinos and a "different kind" of candidate.

One ad touts her track record at eBay. The other emphasizes that Whitman opposes
the new Arizona law aimed at cracking down on illegal immigrants and that she
opposed Proposition 187, the 1994 California ballot initiative that, if it
hadn't been overturned in federal court, would have denied services to illegal
immigrants.

The ads are remarkably different in tone from the ads the Whitman campaign was
running in the lead-up to the June 8 election. One of those had Whitman's
campaign chairman, former Gov. Pete Wilson, the champion of Proposition 187,
promising that she would be "tough as nails" on illegal immigration.

At the time, Poizner, the state insurance commissioner, was using illegal
immigration as a wedge issue to win over conservative votes.

At the GOP convention in Santa Clara in March, the Whitman campaign passed out
fliers touting her opposition to driver's licenses for illegal immigrants and
her support for banning undocumented students from the University of California
and California State University systems.

Hector Barajas, a spokesman for the Whitman campaign, said the new ads are
designed to reach out to Latino voters on two critical issues   education and
jobs.

"Without an education, our Latino community has no future," Barajas said.
"Without a job you can't buy clothes or house and feed your child."

Polls conducted by the Public Policy Institute of California showed that
Whitman's support among Latinos fell sharply as Poizner turned up the heat on
illegal immigration and forced Whitman to sound tough on the issue. In its March
survey, Jerry Brown, the Democratic candidate for governor, led Whitman among
Latinos 45 percent to 35 percent. By late May, Brown led Whitman 58 percent to
26 percent among Latinos.

"What she's doing here sounds smart," Hoover Institution fellow Bill Whalen, a
speechwriter for former Gov. Wilson, said of the ads. "She's directly addressing
the fastest-growing segment of the California electorate" and she's pre-empting
the coming Democratic attacks on the illegal immigration issue.

Although she's obviously being selective on which positions she raises in regard
to the issue, "there's no flip-flopping or reversing of course here," Whalen
said.

The California Democratic Party, however, issued a sharp statement on the ads:

"Apparently Meg Whitman forgot that we live in the age of 'the Internets'
ironic for someone who touts her eBay experience. She sincerely believes a
Spanish language advertising buy is going to gloss over the fact that together
with her mentor Pete Wilson, and her rival Steve Poizner, she engaged in the
greatest Republican Party anti-immigrant hate-fest this side of the
California-Arizona border."

Reversing some of the damage from the primary may be difficult.

Andrés Eugenio Jiménez, retired director of a UC Berkeley policy think tank,
said the primary was extremely well-covered in the Spanish-language media   so
he expects most Latinos will scrutinize her positions on the hot-button issue.

"Latino voters are very capable of sorting through the images and actual
approach to policy," he said.

But at the least, he said, "she will at the least win herself greater name
recognition among Latinos."

Whitman on Thursday spoke at a Los Gatos fundraiser for state Assemblyman Sam
Blakeslee, R-San Luis Obispo, who is running against Democrat John Laird for Lt.
Gov. Abel Maldonado's old state Senate seat.

Labor groups picketed the event, claiming that Wall Street and Big Oil were
teaming up "in an attempted hostile corporate takeover of California."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Gary Reyes/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday

Supreme Court refuses to review California illegal immigrant tuition law

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 534 words


Illegal immigrants who call California home will continue to pay reduced,
in-state tuition rates to go to college here -- just like other state residents
-- after the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday refused to review a legal challenge to
a politically charged state law.

Without comment, the high court let stand a California Supreme Court ruling in
November that unanimously concluded in-state tuition does not run afoul of
federal immigration laws restricting public education benefits to illegal
immigrants.

In-state tuition is often tens of thousands of dollars less than tuition for
those who reside outside the state.

The California policy had been challenged by a group of students from other
states who argued that they were being unfairly discriminated against because
they pay the higher out-of-state tuition fees and are U.S. citizens. Backers of
the lawsuit maintained the law amounts to government encouragement of illegal
immigration, and conflicts with federal law restricting public aid to illegal
immigrants.

Tuition rates for illegal immigrants has emerged as yet another hot-button issue
in the larger immigration debate. And while the U.S. Supreme Court elected not
to jump into that aspect of the debate on Monday, the justices have had a steady
diet of cases involving illegal immigration, including recently upholding
Arizona's law imposing tough penalties on businesses that hire illegal workers.

The case attracted attention across the country, in large part because at least
nine other states have similar laws that were expected to come under legal
attack. With the Supreme Court's refusal to step into the debate, those laws
will remain intact for now, but critics say there will be further court fights
that could return the issue to the nation's high court.

"I think there will be other opportunities," said Michael Brady, a Redwood City
lawyer involved in representing the out-of-state students. "No other state is
bound by the California Supreme Court (decision)."

There are no firm numbers on how many undocumented students benefit from the
state law, but critics estimated that tens of thousands are paying the lower
in-state tuition. The difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition is
significant: Full-time out-of-state students pay four to five times more per
year for UC campuses, for example.

A student group that works for racial justice applauded the court's decision.
Sergio Cuellar of Californians for Justice said it will help students who have
worked hard academically and who, for the most part, have lived in the state
nearly all their lives. "It will be a plus for California to have these young
people continue on to higher education and careers, and to achieve their
dreams."

Officials from California's higher education systems also applauded the ruling,
saying it preserves the ability of undocumented students who often attend the
state's public high schools to afford college.

"These students deserve to be treated like any other Californian who has been
here, worked hard and wants the opportunity to achieve a higher education," said
Jack Scott, California's community college chancellor.

Mercury News staff writer Sharon Noguchi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2009 FILE PHOTO--Throngs crowd under Sather Gate on the first day of
classes at UC Berkeley in Berkeley, Calif., on Wednesday, Aug. 26, 2009. (Karl
Mondon/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday

Los Angeles immigration protesters rolling to Arizona

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 124 words


LOS ANGELES   Hundreds of Southern Californians are rolling to Arizona this
morning to protest the state's new immigration law, a day after a federal judge
put its key measures on hold.

Nearly a dozen chartered carrying immigrant-rights activists left Dodger Stadium
in Los Angeles for the ride to Phoenix.

The new law taking effect Thursday was designed to crack down on illegal
immigration but critics say it encourages racism against Hispanics.

A federal judge in Phoenix on Wednesday issued a temporary injunction delaying
the most contentious provisions, including a requirement that immigrants carry
their papers and that police check a person's immigration status while enforcing
other laws.

Arizona's governor says she'll appeal the ruling.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Photo slide show: Santa Cruz riots and immigration rights marches across the
United States

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 36 words


Immigrant rights advocates marched across the United States on Saturday, May 1,
2010 to protest a tough new illegal immigration law in Arizona. In Santa Cruz,
May Day rioters caused thousands of dollars worth of damage.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette Jr. : Sweet home, Alabama, no more

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 609 words


SAN DIEGO -- This is how bad it has gotten in Alabama.

A Mexican consulate official in Washington who is monitoring the fallout from
the state's tough new immigration law told me recently that, as school
administrators were initially trying to determine the legal status of students,
some principals were going into elementary school classes and telling kids:
"Raise your hand if you weren't born in the United States." Imagine a 6-year-old
sitting there -- unsure of whether to raise his hand because he's afraid his
mother and father might get deported.

What is happening to my country? I was born here, as were my parents and three
of my grandparents. Yet, sometimes, I hardly recognize the place.

This is one of those times. As they shape their own immigration policies, the
states are in a race to the bottom. Rather than challenge each other to create
jobs or manufacture goods or improve the schools, they're competing to see which
one can be the cruelest to illegal immigrants.

We have a winner: Alabama. And, ironically, the trophy goes to a state that
should have learned five decades ago that hatred and intolerance are cancerous.
There is a new group of defenseless victims to pick on.

In the past 10 years, Latino immigrants have migrated to cities such as Mobile,
Birmingham and Montgomery. Their optimism and hard work were welcomed until some
people realized that these new arrivals weren't just changing beds or diapers
but also changing the cultural and demographic landscape of the state. Then fear
took over.

And the message became: "Gracias for waiting on our tables, building our homes,
cutting our lawns, cleaning our hotel rooms and raising our kids. Now, adios!"

The Republican-controlled Alabama Legislature approved -- and Republican Gov.
Robert Bentley signed -- what is believed to be the toughest immigration law in
the country. The measure mandates, among other things, that school officials
inquire as to students' immigration status and allows authorities to charge with
a misdemeanor immigrants caught without documents that prove they're in the
country legally. It also requires local and state police to check people's
immigration status during traffic stops and makes it a felony for illegal
immigrants to apply for a driver's license or business license.

The law was challenged by the Justice Department. Last week, the 11th Circuit
Court of Appeals struck down parts of it but let stand other portions. School
officials cannot inquire as to the immigration status of students, the court
said, but local and state police can check the immigration status of motorists
during traffic stops.

Why didn't Democrats in Alabama put up more of a fight to stop the law? Two
reasons: They're afraid of being perceived as soft on illegal immigrants, and
much of the Democratic base is opposed to illegal immigration because it worries
about foreign workers taking blue-collar jobs from Americans.

Then there's the national scene. In a disturbing alliance, the Alabama
Republicans who enacted this law have a willing accomplice in the Obama
administration, which wants to boost its deportation numbers just in time to
court suburban white voters who are frightened down to their knickers over the
Latinization of America.

President Barack Obama's immigration policy is not only heinous but
hypocritical. While the Justice Department scolds Alabama for encroaching on
federal authority by enforcing immigration law, the Homeland Security Department
scoops up the bounty. What message does this send Alabama and other states that
are thinking about going rogue?

Simply this: "Keep up the good work."

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Flores shouts as she marches and carries a sign protesting
Alabama's immigration law, Sunday, Oct. 16, 2011 in Athens, Ala., protesting
Alabama's immigration law. (AP Photo/The Decatur Daily, Gary Cosby Jr.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Don't assume that immigration reform is dead

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 596 words


Sometimes conventional wisdom is wrong.

That's how it is with the assumption that Republican Scott Brown's victory over
Democrat Martha Coakley in the Massachusetts Senate race means that there will
be no immigration reform this year.

The senator-elect has said that he opposes what he calls "amnesty" for illegal
immigrants. In fact, Brown already knows how to turn illegal immigration into a
wedge issue. As a state senator, he recently introduced a bill that would
require anyone suing employers for violating state wage laws to show proof of
citizenship or legal residency.

That is one of the worst ideas I've ever heard. Under current law, just because
people are in the country illegally doesn't mean they don't have legal recourse
if employers don't pay them. That's how it should be. Ironically, Brown's bill
would produce more of what he says he opposes: illegal immigration. By signaling
to companies that they can get away with not paying illegal immigrants, we will
only encourage employers to hire more of them.

Even so, I think the rumors about the death of comprehensive immigration reform
are premature. Here's why:


     ·    This debate isn't as simple as Blue and Red. There are Republicans who
          support comprehensive immigration reform and Democrats who oppose it,
          both because they fear fallout over supporting earned legalization and
          because they're beholden to unions who oppose reform if it includes a
          plan for additional guest workers.



     ·    Let's remember that it was Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and other
          Democrats, including then-Sen. Barack Obama, who helped thwart
          immigration reform both in 2006 and 2007.



     ·    Judging from the debate over health care, Obama is a true believer
          what opponents call an ideologue   who won't stop pushing for
          something he supports just because the political equation in
          Washington has changed.



     ·    It could be said that the real lesson from Massachusetts is that
          voters are tired of political posturing and backroom deals, and that
          what they really want is for lawmakers to seek solutions to tough
          problems instead of allowing them to fester. Most Americans
          acknowledge that the immigration system is broken, even if they
          disagree about how to fix it.



     ·    Brown opposes a no-strings-attached form of amnesty, but he might be
          persuaded to support earned legalization that allows for fines and
          other restitution.



     ·    From a purely Machiavellian point of view, doesn't it make sense for
          Republicans like Brown to not merely welcome the immigration debate
          but to actually force it? Not only does it rally the GOP base, but it
          also splits the Democratic base   Latinos on one side, organized labor
          on the other. That could be helpful to Republicans in coming
          elections.



     ·    Time is running out for the Obama administration. If immigration
          reform doesn't happen in 2010, the debate will only become more
          complicated. If Republicans take control of Congress in November, the
          issue could be off the table in 2011. And since little gets done
          during a presidential election campaign, don't expect much to happen
          in 2012.


If Obama breaks the one major promise he made to Latino voters   to deliver
comprehensive immigration reform   this will make it tough for him to face the
Latino community as he campaigns for re-election. And Democrats can't afford a
sizable bloc of voters becoming so disillusioned with Obama's version of "hope
and change" that they don't turn out to help re-elect him.

All the more reason that the White House has to recommit itself to comprehensive
immigration reform, even without the support of the soon-to-be junior senator
from Massachusetts.



LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday

Latinos Increasingly Critical of Obama's Record on Immigration

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 230 words


WASHINGTON   As tens of thousands of immigrants and their supporters prepare to
demonstrate here Sunday in favor of an immigration overhaul, the Obama
administration is finding its relationship with this largely Latino community
complicated by its mixed and misunderstood record on immigration enforcement.

Compared with the Bush administration, Obama officials have substantially cut
back on job-site roundups of illegal workers in favor of less controversial
measures, such as auditing employers' books and expanding programs that target
unauthorized immigrants convicted of crimes.

The number of workers arrested on suspicion of being in the country illegally
an administrative violation of immigration law   through work-site raids dropped
nearly 70 percent, from 5,184 to 1,644 in the 2009 fiscal year, prompting an
outcry from some congressional Republicans.

"At best, it appears as though immigration enforcement is being shelved and the
administration is attempting to enact some sort of selective amnesty under the
cover of prioritization," said Rep. Harold Rogers, R-Ky., at a House
Appropriations homeland security subcommittee hearing Thursday. "We cannot allow
a preoccupation with criminal aliens to obscure other critical ICE missions. ...
At a time of painfully high unemployment, how can we allow illegal immigrants to
take jobs away from Americans who need them?"

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Opinion: Navarrette: Obama not satisfying immigration reform advocates

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 595 words


SAN DIEGO   A lot of immigration advocates who voted for Barack Obama got less
than they bargained for.

Either because Democrats have a reputation for being progressive on civil
rights, or because too many Republicans drape the immigration issue in fear and
demagoguery, many immigrant rights activists assume that Democrats are more
forgiving toward illegal immigrants than are Republicans.

In 2008, they put their trust in the "D" after Obama's name and voted for him.
And once he got into office, they expected his administration to approach the
deporting of illegal immigrants differently than the George W. Bush
administration did.

Guess what? There is a difference. It turns out that the Obama administration is
much more aggressive about deportations than its predecessor. In this case, the
"D" stands for duped.

According to internal memos obtained by the Center for Investigative Reporting
and The Washington Post, officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement were
so eager to drive up the number of deportations beyond the level they were in
Bush's last year that they set quotas and spelled out how agents could meet
them.

In a February memo, James Chaparro, head of ICE detention and removal
operations, noted that the overall number of deportations for the year that
ended in September 2009 was just over 310,000   "well under the agency's goal of
400,000." Chaparro suggested increasing detention space to hold more illegal
immigrants and deporting illegal immigrants who committed only minor violations.

All this despite an earlier assurance from John Morton, assistant homeland
security secretary for ICE, that "we don't have quotas anymore." Also, ICE
agents went on a deporting spree despite assurances from top administration
officials that the agency would aim enforcement efforts at criminal aliens
those illegal immigrants who commit serious crimes once in the United States.

For my part, I'm not disappointed. Even as a proponent of comprehensive
immigration reform, I support deportations as a necessary option Granted, forced
removals don't do much good since in many cases, those who are deported often
make it back into the country before the ink dries on the paperwork. But it's
the right of any country to expel unwanted visitors who broke the rules to
enter.

Nor am I shocked by the Obama administration's sudden enthusiasm for deporting
illegal immigrants. I saw this coming a year ago when Obama made Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano his point person for comprehensive
immigration reform. It's also likely that the activists heard what they wanted
to hear. When Obama tried to woo Latino audiences by condemning ICE agents who
"terrorize" immigrants by snatching parents away from their babies, the
activists thought that Obama was promising to avoid vigorous enforcement. What
people in both parties forget is that politicians who are eager to shed a given
reputation will often overcompensate by moving in the opposite direction. Many
Democrats are worried about being seen as wimps on border security, so they want
to show their toughness.

Apparently, this includes Obama.  He didn't have a very good reputation on
immigration issues before he was elected, back when Dolores Huerta, vice
president emeritus of the United Farm Workers, called him a "Johnny come lately"
to immigration and other issues that concern Latinos. Now that Obama has been on
the job for more than a year; when it comes to that constituency, he's more like
a "Johnny never showed up."

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Economy won't falter or flourish because of immigration reform, study finds

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 709 words


OAKLAND " Legalizing millions of immigrants would have little impact on the
economy, according to a new report, neither vastly improving the financial
prospects of illegal immigrants nor curtailing the opportunities of everyone
else.

The study by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California deflates
arguments from both sides of the immigration divide. As lawmakers and the Obama
administration contemplate overhauling the immigration system, the report
released this week counters those who promote immigrant legalization as a
financial boon to California and the country.



"Unauthorized workers make gains over time in the United States, but those
gains, by and large, are not attributed to getting a green card," said lead
researcher Laura Hill.

The report also rejects claims by legalization detractors who argue amnesty for
up to 12 million illegal immigrants would ruin the economy, lessen job prospects
and drain government resources.

Getting undocumented immigrants on a path to legal residency and citizenship,
according to Hill, is likely to be neither as devastating nor as economically
promising as partisans of the issue would suggest.

"We"re finding there"s not this really large gain in wages among those who are
becoming green-card holders," Hill said. "These people are already here working
these jobs. Giving them a green card doesn"t change, at least in the short term,
their trajectories, so it"s not going to impact natives."

The findings rely on established research by demographers and labor economists
but also a study called the New Immigrant Survey that gathered information from
a sample of new immigrants in 2003.

Authors of the report point out they do not set out to measure noneconomic
considerations, such as how reform measures might bring people out of the
shadows, encourage civic participation and keep together families that have been
separated by deportation.

Economists disagree on the degrees to which new immigration impacts the wages of
native-born workers, but there is less disagreement on the impact of legalizing
immigrant workers who are already here.

"What the change of status will do is probably, over a little bit of time,
increase their bargaining power with their employer, and increase, a little bit,
their wage," said Giovanni Peri, an economist at the University of California
Davis.

In contrast, for the majority of illegal immigrant workers with lower skills,
immigration paperwork was far less important than years spent working in the
United States as a measurement of how they get ahead financially.

"Some people do change jobs (after getting a green card) but when they do,
they"re not getting better jobs," Hill said. "Dishwashers become cooks. Grounds
maintenance workers become something else that is not highly remunerative. They
are not starting to threaten natives."

Most illegal immigrants pay taxes, the survey found, so adding them to the
official rolls would not significantly boost the state and national economy. The
report estimates that 87 percent of those who illegally crossed the border and
91 percent of those who overstayed visas filed tax returns in 2002.

Legalization also, however, would not be expected to drain state and federal
social service programs, at least not in the short term, the report said, since
it takes years before new legal immigrants can qualify for most programs. An
exception, Hill said, would be the Earned Income Tax Credit for people with low
wages. Illegal immigrants are disqualified from obtaining the credit, but would
be able to tap into if they had legal status.

Dividing unauthorized immigrants between those who illegally crossed the border
and those who overstayed a tourist, student or other kind of visa, the report
finds that the "overstayers" are likely to face the most immediate benefits from
moving to a legal immigration status. Those immigrants are more likely to have
higher skills and education and their career paths are more likely to be blocked
by their illegal status.

"When they get the green card, they catch up," Hill said. "What we think is
driving this difference is the way employer sanctions might differ for employers
at low skill levels than employers at high skill levels."


The full report can be found at www.ppic.org .

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

Arizona may crack down hard on illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 362 words


PHOENIX   Civil-rights activists on Wednesday warned that Arizona is inviting
rampant racial profiling and police-state tactics if it enacts what would be the
toughest law in the nation against illegal immigrants.

The measure   on the verge of approval in the Legislature   would make it a
crime under state law to be in the country illegally. It would also require
local police officers to question people about their immigration status if there
is reason to suspect they are illegal.

Immigrants unable to produce documents showing they are allowed to be in the
United States could be arrested, jailed for up to six months and fined $2,500.

"That is an unprecedented expansion of police power," said Alessandra Soler
Meetze, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Arizona.
"It's giving police officers a green light to harass anyone who looks or sounds
foreign."

The ACLU and immigrant rights groups are demanding Republican Gov. Jan Brewer
veto the measure if it reaches her. The Republican has not announced whether she
will sign it but said she is a strong supporter of pragmatic immigration laws.

Her predecessor, Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who is now President Barack
Obama's homeland security secretary, vetoed similar proposals.

Current law in Arizona and most states doesn't require police to ask about the
immigration status of those they encounter, and many police departments prohibit
officers from inquiring out of fear immigrants won't cooperate in other
investigations.

The new measure would be the latest crackdown of its kind in Arizona, which has
an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants, the seventh most in the United States.
California has the most illegal immigrants with 2.6 million, followed by Texas
with 1.7 million.

State Sen. Russell Pearce, the bill's sponsor, has been the driving force behind
Arizona's tough new measures, including a law copied in other states that
punishes companies caught knowingly hiring illegal immigrants.

Anger over the porous Mexican border mounted last month when an Arizona cattle
rancher was shot to death. Investigators said he may have been killed by drug
runners working for cartels based in Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Arizona governor signs controversial immigration enforcement bill

BYLINE: By Paul Davenport and Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 330 words


PHOENIX   Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed into law the nation's toughest
legislation against illegal immigration today, a sweeping measure that
supporters said would take handcuffs off police but which President Barack Obama
said could violate people's civil rights.

The bill, sent to the Republican governor by the GOP-led Legislature, would make
it a crime under state law to be in the country illegally. It would also require
local police officers to question people about their immigration status if there
is reason to suspect they are illegal immigrants.

Brewer, who faces a tough election battle and growing anger in the state over
illegal immigrants, said the law "protects every Arizona citizen."

"We in Arizona have been more than patient waiting for Washington to act,"
Brewer said after signing the law. "But decades of inaction and misguided policy
have created a dangerous and unacceptable situation."

Obama said in Washington that he's instructed the Justice Department to examine
the Arizona bill to see if it's legal, and said the federal government must
enact immigration reform at the national level   or leave the door open to
"irresponsibility by others."

"That includes, for example, the recent efforts in Arizona, which threaten to
undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as the
trust between police and their communities that is so crucial to keeping us
safe," Obama said.

Brewer was under intense pressure from anti-illegal immigration groups and
lawmakers in her own party to sign the bill, but has given no indication what
she will do.

Hundreds of protesters gathered at the State Capitol complex Friday calling on
Brewer to veto the legislation.

Demonstrators have been camped outside the Capitol since the measure passed out
of the Legislature on Monday. Their numbers have grown steadily throughout the
week, with buses bringing protesters from as far away as Los Angeles.

About a dozen supporters of the measure also gathered.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov. Jan Brewer signs bill SB1070 dealing with illegal immigration
during a news conference at the Arizona Department of Transportation in Phoenix
on Friday, April 23, 2010. (AP Photo/The Arizona Republic, Tom Tingle) MARICOPA
COUNTY OUT; MESA TRIBUNE OUT; MAGS OUT; NO SALES
Protestors hold signs during a rally against a pending immigration bill, which
would require the police to ask people about their immigration status if
officers have any reason to suspect that they are in the country illegally,
during a rally outside the Arizona State Capitol in Phoenix on Friday, April 23,
2010. Gov. Jan Brewer signed the bill into law later on Friday. (Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)
Protestors recite the Pledge of Allegiance during a rally against a pending
immigration bill, which would require the police to ask people about their
immigration status if officers have any reason to suspect that they are in the
country illegally, during a rally outside the Arizona State Capitol in Phoenix
on Friday, April 23, 2010. Gov. Jan Brewer signed the bill into law later on
Friday. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)
Ernie Getford holds a sign in support of the controversial SB1070 illegal
immigration enforcement bill during a rally at the state Capitol in Phoenix on
Friday April 23, 2010. (AP Photo/The Arizona Republic, Nick Oza) MARICOPA COUNTY
OUT; MESA TRIBUNE OUT; MAGS OUT; NO SALES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Editorial: Arizona reforms only widen division on immigration

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 194 words


When Congress gets around to tackling immigration reform, Arizona's appalling
new state law shouldn't serve as the model.

Real reform should go beyond efforts to crack down on illegal immigrants. It
must balance jobs and security, create a way for undocumented workers already
here to earn citizenship and include a temporary visa program for farm workers.

The worst aspect of the Arizona law is that it's widening the political division
on what was already a contentious issue. On Sunday, Arizona Rep. Raul Grijalva
urged the Obama administration not to cooperate with local police who pick up
illegal immigrants and try to enforce the new law.

The Arizona legislation makes not having immigration documents a misdemeanor. It
doesn't leave the police any discretion, requiring that they demand
documentation from anyone they suspect is in Arizona illegally. That pretty much
means that every Latino in the state will need to keep their papers with them
24/7.

No one is denying the extent of Arizona's problem. The Pew Hispanic Center
estimates the state has 460,000 illegal immigrants. But the solution is
comprehensive reforms that emphasize solutions over penalties.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Immigrant rights backers to march Saturday in Watsonville

BYLINE: By Donna Jones djones@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 519 words


WATSONVILLE   An annual protest for immigrant rights takes on special
significance this year with the recent passage of a new Arizona law cracking
down on undocumented immigrants.

The protest, 4-8 p.m. Saturday at the City Plaza, will include a rally, march,
entertainment, children's activities and free consultations with immigration
lawyers.

Organizer Ramiro Medrano said he expects bigger crowds than in the past couple
of years due to the new Arizona law.

"People start rallying when they are really angry about something," Medrano
said. "In the long run, (the Arizona law) is going to help the movement. People
have been stagnant or just passive. We need that spark." The new law, signed by
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer on Friday, makes it a state crime to be in the country
without the proper documents. It also allows police to stop people they suspect
of being illegal immigrants and ask to see their papers.

Critics say the law will lead to racial profiling and is a state usurpation of
federal authority. Medrano said he fears it will fuel anti-immigrant sentiment.

"It has racial overtones," Medrano said. "It's going to target Mexicans and
Central Americans and South Americans. ... I don't think anyone is going to stop
Anglos and ask if they are from Europe or Canada." Supporters say Arizona had no
choice.

"If the federal government had been doing its job, the Arizona Legislature
wouldn't have had to take this action, but there comes a point where a state
government must protect the rights of their citizens," said Santa Cruz lawyer
Tim Morgan. "All they're doing in Arizona is enforcing federal law." Federal
immigration reform stalled after a 2007 proposal by President George W. Bush
failed to win enough support. The Bush plan called for increased border security
while providing a path to legal status for millions.

Morgan said the federal effort to tackle border security in the meantime as been
merely "talk." The Arizona law is bound to strike a chord in Watsonville, where
about 70 percent of the population is Latino and many undocumented field workers
live and raise families.

Medrano said he's been interviewed on Spanish-language radio and television
stations, some of which have been giving round-the-clock attention to the
Arizona law and have promoted Saturday's event as well.

In 2006, as Congress debated tightening immigration policy, a crowd estimated at
6,000 to 10,000 people marched through the streets of Watsonville and Pajaro in
support of immigrants on May 1.

Since then, with immigration on the back burner, crowds have numbered in the
hundreds. Medrano doesn't expect a 2006 turnout, but he anticipates more people
than in the recent past.

As yet, organizers do not have a permit for the march, according to police. In
March 2006, activists failed to get a permit for a immigrant rights march and
paid a $1,414 fine as a result.

IF YOU GO

WHAT: Immigrant and workers rights protest; legal consultations, children's
activities, rally and march
WHEN: 4-8 p.m. Saturday; 5 p.m. march; 7:30 p.m. Vive Oaxaca folkloric dance
troupe performance
WHERE: City Plaza at Main and East Beach streets

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

S.F. officials ask MLB to move All-Star game from Phoenix

BYLINE: Bay City News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 413 words


SAN FRANCISCO   Two San Francisco city officials called today for the 2011 Major
League Baseball All-Star Game to be moved from Phoenix in protest of Arizona's
new law that requires local law enforcement to check the legal status of those
they suspect may be illegal immigrants.

City Attorney Dennis Herrera and Supervisor David Campos sent a letter to Major
League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig today asking him to move the game from
the state unless the "draconian new anti-immigration law" is repealed.

The law was signed last Friday by Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer.

Of particular concern to Herrera and Campos are provisions in the law that
require local police to detain and question individuals they have "reasonable
suspicion" are in the country illegally, and that make it a state crime for
legal immigrants to not always carry documented proof of legal presence in the
country with them.

Civil rights advocates have assailed the law, saying it will lead to racial
profiling against Hispanics, regardless of citizenship.

"Arizona's new law may purport to target illegal immigration, but the reality
for millions of Americans is far more chilling," Herrera and Campos wrote. "The
law, in fact, targets all Latinos and others who may appear 'foreign.'

"It is a profoundly unjust and dangerous law that threatens the rights of
millions of Americans   including large numbers of Major League Baseball players
and their fans   to be secure in their person, and to lawfully enjoy their civil
liberties," they wrote.

On Monday, Herrera and Campos called for a citywide boycott of the state of
Arizona and businesses based there.

Mayor Gavin Newsom on Tuesday ordered a moratorium on city employee travel to
the state for official business, with exceptions for law enforcement, public
health or safety. And Oakland City Council on Tuesday will vote on a boycott as
well.

The Oakland boycott would, with certain exemptions, urge city officials not to
enter contracts or purchase goods from companies with headquarters in Arizona,
require city staffers to review existing contracts with Arizona companies, and
keep city employees from traveling to Arizona on official business.

A spokesman for Major League Baseball was not immediately available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Opinion: Navarrette: Punting on immigration reform &mdash; again

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 432 words


Americans expect some degree of manipulation by Congress. Even so, the
politicking over immigration reform has set a new standard in this election
year. With lawmakers reinventing themselves and reformatting their positions,
it's hard to keep track of who believes what.

Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl were for comprehensive immigration reform before
they were against it. Now the Arizona Republicans favor the enforcement-only
route.

Rep. Nydia Velazquez, a New York Democrat who chairs the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus, recently told CNN: "The CHC wants a bill that secures our borders,
creates a reliable employer verification system, unites families, requires
immigrants to learn English, and mandates that immigrants pay their fair share."

Did you forget something, congresswoman? Does Velazquez think that by not
mentioning what may be the most controversial element of comprehensive
immigration reform   earned legal status for illegal immigrants   voters will
forget that legalization is at the center of the debate?

And now that Arizona has taken it upon itself to enforce federal immigration law
with a statute that all but requires police to engage in racial and ethnic
profiling as they go about ferreting out illegal immigrants, the situation in
Congress has only become more complicated.

Before the Arizona law was signed, neither political party wanted to kick off
the national immigration debate since   in the case of each   the issue divides
the base. But now that Arizona has foolishly rushed in, the base wants action
from Washington.

The Democrats who set the calendar can't decide whether to discuss immigration
now, this summer, or again kick it down the road   this time to the new Congress
next year.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who is himself up for re-election and
trailing badly in the polls, has a simple answer: "Yes."

But after Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina   the only leading Republican
working with Democrats on the climate change issue   protested, the majority
leader reversed course again and pushed immigration reform back to the next
place in line.

This likely means that Congress will continue discussing financial reform until
Memorial Day, take up climate change in the summer days leading up to the Fourth
of July, and put off immigration reform until after the midterm elections. If
Reid loses his re-election bid, it will all be someone else's problem.

Should Republicans wind up with more seats in Congress, they'll use that power
to pursue a restrictionist agenda. Then the prospects for immigration reform
already weak   will slip away again.



LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday

Obama clamors for federal fix to immigration woes

BYLINE: By Ben Feller Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 707 words


WASHINGTON   Confronting soaring frustration over illegal immigration, President
Barack Obama on Wednesday condemned Arizona's crackdown and pushed instead for a
federal fix the nation could embrace. He said that will never happen without
Republican support, pleading: "I need some help."

In asking anew for an immigration overhaul, Obama showed solidarity with his
guest of honor, Mexican President Felipe Calderon, who called Arizona's law
discriminatory and warned Mexico would reject any effort to "criminalize
migration." The United States and Mexico share a significant economic and
political relationship that stands to be damaged the more the nations are at
odds over immigration, which affects millions of people on both sides of the
border.

Obama sought to show that he, too, is fed up with his own government's failure
to fix a system widely seen as broken. He said that would require solving border
security, employment and citizenship issues all at once   the kind of effort
that collapsed in Congress just three years ago.

The president's stand underscored the forces working against him in this
election year: the need for help from Republican critics, the impatience of
states like Arizona after federal inaction, the pressure to show movement on a
campaign promise, and the mood of the public disgusted by porous borders.

The Arizona law requires police to question people about their immigration
status if there's reason to suspect they're in the country illegally, and it
makes it a state crime to be in the U.S. illegally. People may be questioned
about their status if they've been stopped by police who are in the process of
enforcing another law.

The law will take effect July 29 unless legal challenges are successful. Almost
twice as many people support it as those who oppose it, according to an
Associated Press-GfK poll this month. It found that 42 percent favored it, 24
percent opposed it and another 29 percent said they were neutral.

Yet in a Rose Garden appearance with Calderon, Obama called the Arizona law "a
misdirected expression of frustration." He expects to announce soon what action
his government may take about it, once the Justice Department finishes reviewing
whether the law violates civil rights.

"In the United States of America, no law-abiding person   be they an American
citizen, a legal immigrant, or a visitor or tourist from Mexico   should ever be
subject to suspicion simply because of what they look like," Obama said.

Calderon was upbeat about the chance of finding a fair, dignified way of dealing
with migrants. He added: "Many of them, despite their significant contribution
to the economy and to the society of the United States, still live in the
shadows, and occasionally, as in Arizona, they even face discrimination."

The immigration theme dominated a day of pageantry and showy support for
Calderon, who enjoyed a state visit with his wife, Margarita Zavala.

The Mexican president was treated to a grand welcome on the South Lawn in the
morning. Wednesday night, 200 guests were invited for a state dinner in the East
Room, followed by entertainment back on the lawn under cover of an enormous
tent.

As the guests for the second state dinner of Obama's presidency arrived, the
White House tried to purge the memories of the uninvited guests at the first
state dinner.

"I'd say things are pretty secure around here," Transportation Secretary Ray
LaHood said.

But if the unwelcome crashers from the first dinner, Tareq and Michaele Salahi
were nowhere in sight, the Obamas came up with some star power. Among the guests
were the actors Eva Longoria Parker and George Lopez; the Olympic speed skater
Shani Davis, who brought his coach, Jae Su Chun; and the New York Jets
quarterback Mark Sanchez, who brought his left tackle, D'Brickashaw Ferguson.

Whoopi Goldberg, a regular in the Clinton years but not so much in the Bush era,
said, "It's kind of like coming home after a long drought."

The guests dined on Oregon wagyu beef in Oaxacan black mole, black bean tamalon
and grilled green beans prepared by Rick Bayless, the guest chef from Chicago's
Topolobampo restaurant. They were entertained by Beyonce and Rodrigo y Gabriela
on the South Lawn.

The New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

Arizona Gov. Brewer to Obama: Secure our border

BYLINE: By Darlene Superville and Suzanne Gamboa Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 349 words


WASHINGTON   Facing off on illegal immigration, Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer told
President Barack Obama that Americans "want our border secured" and called
Thursday for completion of a separating fence. Obama underscored his objections
that the tough immigration law she signed is discriminatory.

Meeting in the Oval Office, Obama said Arizona's law and similar efforts by more
than 20 states would interfere with the federal government's responsibility to
set and enforce immigration policy.

Neither side appeared to give ground on the contentious issue, although both
talked about seeking a bipartisan solution.

Obama urged her to "be his partner" in working toward a comprehensive overhaul
of the nation's badly fractured immigration system. Brewer told The Associated
Press afterward that she told Obama her state is not ready for the comprehensive
solution he favors.

"I said we need to have the fence completed, have more troops on the border and
more resources" for aerial surveillance, she said.

Thursday's unusual meeting between the president and the governor was a
byproduct of Brewer's decision to sign a first-in-the-nation law requiring
police enforcing other laws to check immigration status if they suspect someone
is in the country illegally. The law also makes being in the U.S. illegally a
state crime. Brewer sought the meeting and the White House accepted.

Emerging from the half-hour session, Brewer said Obama assured her that the
majority of the 1,200 National Guard troops he is sending to the U.S.-Mexico
border would be going to her state.

Brewer said she and Obama also agreed to try to work together on solutions. She
said White House staff would visit Arizona in a couple of weeks to continue the
"very cordial discussion" she had with the president.

Obama said Thursday in an interview that he understands the frustration in
Arizona over the influx of illegal immigrants from Mexico but that Arizona's law
is the wrong way to go about solving the problem.

"I think this puts American citizens, who ... are Hispanic, potentially in an
unfair situation," he told CNN's Larry King.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday

Arizona cops expect scrutiny of immigration enforcement

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 323 words


PHOENIX   Police enforcing Arizona's toughest-in-the-nation immigration law are
allowed to consider if a person speaks poor English, looks nervous or is
traveling in an overcrowded vehicle.

They can even take into account whether someone is wearing several layers of
clothing in a hot climate, or hanging out in an area where illegal immigrants
are known to look for work.

But top police officials issued a stern warning to officers Thursday, telling
them in a training video not to consider race or ethnicity and emphasizing that
"the entire country is watching."

The officials cautioned that opponents of the law may secretly videotape police
making traffic stops in an effort to prove that they are racially profiling
Latinos.

"Without a doubt, we're going to be accused of racial profiling no matter what
we do on this," Tucson Police Chief Roberto Villasenor tells officers on the
video, which was posted online. The recording demonstrates how officers should
determine when they can ask someone for proof they are in the country legally.

Arizona's law, sparked by anger over a surging population of illegal immigrants
in the border state, generally requires officers enforcing another law   such as
speeding or jaywalking   to question a person's immigration status if there's a
reasonable suspicion that the person is in the country illegally.

Under the law, officers are also allowed to consider if a person does not have
identification or tried to run away. But the stakes for making a mistake are
high: Officers can be fired if they start asking questions because of a person's
race, then lie about it later, the video warns.

"It is also clear that the actions of Arizona officers will never come under
this level of scrutiny again," said Lyle Mann, executive director of the state
agency that trains police. "Each and every one of you will now carry the
reputation for the entire Arizona law enforcement community with you every day."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

List of alleged illegal immigrants mailed in Utah

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 226 words


SALT LAKE CITY (AP)   A list containing the names and personal information of
1,300 people an anonymous group contends are illegal immigrants has been mailed
around Utah, terrifying the state's Latino community.

Republican Gov. Gary Herbert wrote in a tweet Tuesday that he has asked state
agencies to investigate the list   sent anonymously to several media outlets,
and law enforcement and state agencies. A letter accompanying the list demands
that those on it be deported immediately.

Most of the names on the list are of Latino origin. The list also contains
highly detailed personal information such as Social Security numbers, birth
dates, workplaces, addresses and phone numbers. Names of children are included,
along with due dates of pregnant women on the list.

"My phone has been ringing nonstop since this morning with people finding out
they're on the list," said Tony Yapias, former director of the Utah Office of
Hispanic Affairs. "They're feeling terrorized. They're very scared."

The list's release comes as several conservative Utah lawmakers consider
sponsoring a tough new illegal immigration law similar to the one passed
recently in Arizona.

Arizona's law, which takes effect July 29, directs police enforcing other laws
to ask about a suspect's immigration status if there is reason to believe the
person is in the United States illegally.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday

Opinion: Hanson: Tough questions about immigration

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 729 words


Some 11 million to 15 million illegal immigrants are now residing in America,
most after crossing into America unlawfully. Once a federal law is arbitrarily
not enforced, all sorts of bizarre paradoxes arise from that original
contradiction. As proof, examine the following illogical policies and
contradictions involving illegal immigration.

Take, for example, profiling -- the controversial questioning of those who
appear likely to be illegal immigrants. Apparently, border guards have developed
criteria for profiling those deemed likely to be unlawful aliens. Otherwise, how
would they have arrested and deported hundreds of thousands in 2009?

Yet apparently, at some arbitrary point distant from the border, those who cross
illegally are not supposed to be asked about their immigration status. OK, but
exactly why did procedures so radically change at, say, five, 10, 20, or is it
100 miles from the border? A border patrolman often profiles, but a nearby
highway patrolman cannot?

The federal government is suing Arizona for the state's efforts to enforce the
federal immigration law. The lawsuit alleges that Arizona is too zealous both in
enforcing immigration law and encroaching on federal jurisdiction.

But wait -- for years, several American cities have declared themselves
sanctuary cities. City officials have even bragged that they would not allow
their municipalities to enforce federal immigration statutes. So why does
Washington sue a state that seeks to enhance federal immigration laws and yet
ignore cities that blatantly try to erode them?

Something is going very wrong in Mexico to prompt more than half a million of
its citizens to cross the border illegally each year. Impoverished Mexican
nationals variously cite poor economic conditions back home, government
corruption, a lack of social services and racism. In other words, it is not just
the desirability of America but also the perceived undesirability of Mexico that
explains one of the largest mass exoduses in modern history.

But why, then, would Mexican President Felipe Calderon, whose country's
conditions are forcing out its own citizens, criticize the United States, which
is receiving so many of them? And why, for that matter, would many of those
illegal immigrants identify, if only symbolically, with the country that made
them leave, whether by waving its flag or criticizing the attitudes of the
Americans who took them in?

And how does Mexico treat the hundreds of thousands of foreign nationals who
seek to illegally cross its own southern border with Central America each year?
Why , exactly, does Mexico believe that nearly a million of its own nationals
annually have claims on American residency, when Chinese, Indian, European and
African would-be immigrants are deemed not to? Is the reason proximity? Past
history?

Proponents of open borders have organized May Day rallies, staged boycotts of
Arizona, sued in federal and state courts and sought to portray those who want
to enforce existing federal immigration law as racially insensitive. But about
70 percent of Americans support securing our borders, and support the Arizona
law in particular. Are a clear majority of Americans racist, brainwashed or
deluded in believing that their laws should be enforced? And if so, why would
immigrants wish to join them?

It is considered liberal to support open borders and reactionary to want to
close them. But illegal immigration drives down the hourly wages of the working
American poor. Tens of thousands of impoverished people abroad, from Africa to
Asia, wait patiently to enter America legally, while hundreds of thousands from
Latin America do not. How liberal can all that be?

America extends housing, food and education subsidies to illegal immigrants in
need. But Mexico receives more than $20 billion in American remittances a year
-- its second-highest source of foreign exchange, and almost of it from its own
nationals living in the United States. Are Americans then subsidizing the
Mexican government by extending social services to illegal immigrants, freeing
up cash for them to send back home?

These baffling questions are rarely posed, never addressed and often considered
politically incorrect. But they will only be asked more frequently in the months
ahead.

Victor Davis Hanson is a syndicated columnist affiliated with the Hoover
Institution at Stanford University

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Next governor's ability to deal with immigration is limited

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 737 words


If history and the campaign platforms of Meg Whitman and Jerry Brown are a
guide, the next California governor is unlikely to rock the boat on immigration
policy.

It's not that the candidates don't talk about it: Immigration sparked
impassioned arguments at their face-to-face debates. They voiced sharply
different perspectives about what the government should do about the estimated
2.6 million illegal immigrants living in California.

But most of their disagreement concerned policies under the purview of the
federal government.

"There's a limited amount that a California governor can do when it comes to
immigration," said Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis law school.

The federal government regulates who can migrate to the United States and is
responsible for enforcing immigration restrictions.

The policies on which governors traditionally have more authority are at the
margins of the immigration debate, such as whether college students here should
qualify for in-state tuition or whether state law enforcement officers should
help with border patrol.

Both candidates think Congress, which has not passed a major immigration bill in
nearly 15 years, should be doing more. Brown, the Democratic candidate, supports
federal reform measures that include a path for undocumented immigrants to
become legal residents and citizens.

Whitman, a Republican, opposes amnesty. She wants the federal government to
expand the fence on the U.S.-Mexico border and expand the guest worker program
that brings migrants into the state for seasonal work.

Brown said in a debate that Whitman's positions treat "people from Mexico as
semi-serfs: Work 'em and send 'em back. It's not right."

Whitman said illegal immigrants are a drain on the state and that Brown's
lenient views are fiscally irresponsible.

As the chief executive of the nation's most populous state, the next governor
can have a wide influence over the immigration debate and be an advocate in
lobbying Congress.

"Any California governor has the potential to be rocking the boat. Whether they
actually do or not is another question," said Tomas Jimenez, a Stanford
University sociology professor who studies immigration.

"We've seen in recent years, particularly in the case of Arizona, there are ways
that state governments, even local governments, can get involved pretty directly
in immigration policy," he said.

Some state policies are focused on integrating immigrants through
English-language classes and social services, Jimenez said. Others, such as in
Oklahoma and Arizona, have sought to push out illegal immigrants by denying them
access to jobs or making it easier to arrest and deport them.

California had its own attempt at an illegal immigrant crackdown in 1994, when
voters passed Proposition 187, which tried to disqualify illegal immigrants from
a K-12 education and other public services. A federal judge later struck it down
in court.

Despite having Prop. 187's champion, former Republican Governor Pete Wilson, as
her campaign manager, Whitman has distanced herself from the measure and the
Arizona law. On this, she and Brown agree.

Both candidates also oppose providing California driver's licenses to immigrants
living here illegally.

Brown has largely avoided making immigration-related proposals, saying the issue
needs to be dealt with at the federal level. Whitman has made several
immigration policies part of her platform, but she has not explained how she
would get past a Democrat-dominated state Legislature to make them happen.


     ·    Higher education: Republican Meg Whitman wants to ban the admission of
          undocumented students to California colleges and universities.
          Democrat Jerry Brown says the higher education system is "for everyone
          -- whether they are documented or not." EMPLOYMENT: Whitman has
          questioned the accuracy of the federal E-Verify database that lets
          employers check workers' immigration status. She wants to institute a
          system "where state and local law enforcement agencies conduct
          inspections of workplaces suspected of employing undocumented
          workers." Brown, according to a spokesman, considers it a federal
          issue. FEDERAL LAW: Whitman wants a law to prevent cities such as San
          Francisco and Oakland from declaring themselves "sanctuaries" for
          undocumented immigrants. Brown promotes Secure Communities, a
          collaboration between federal and local governments that sends
          information on immigrants in county jails to federal authorities.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

Dream Act fizzles in Senate

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 764 words


Washington -- The vote by the Senate on Saturday to block a bill to grant legal
status to hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrant students was a painful
setback to an emerging movement of young immigrants and also appeared to leave
the immigration policy of the Obama administration, which has supported the bill
and the movement, in disarray.

The bill, known as the Dream Act, gained 55 votes in favor with 41 against, a
tally that fell short of the 60 votes needed to bring it to the floor for
debate. Five Democrats broke ranks to vote against the bill while only three
Republicans voted for it. The defeat in the Senate came after the House of
Representatives passed the bill last week.

The result, though not unexpected, was still a rebuff to President Barack Obama
by newly empowered Republicans in Congress on an issue he has called one of his
priorities. The student bill, tailored to benefit only college-bound immigrants
brought here illegally when they were children, was regarded by supporters as
the easiest piece to pass of a larger overhaul of immigration laws that Obama
supports.

His administration has pursued a two-sided immigration policy, coupling tough
enforcement -- producing a record number of about 390,000 deportations this year
-- with an effort to pass the overhaul, which would open a path to legal status
for an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. Now, with less hope for any
measures giving legal status to illegal immigrants once Republicans take over
the House in January, the administration is left with just the stick.

With no legalization measures to show to the immigrant movement or to Latino
voters after two years in office, the president will now face growing pressure
from those groups to temper the enforcement crackdown and perhaps find ways to
use executive powers to bring some illegal immigrants out of the shadows. Latino
voters turned out in strength for the Democrats in the midterm elections,
arguably saving their majority in the Senate.

Republicans are especially keen on tough immigration and border enforcement. The
presumed incoming chairman of the House Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on
immigration is Rep. Steve King of Iowa, one of the most vigorous opponents of
legalization measures for illegal immigrants, which he rejects as amnesty for
lawbreakers.

Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, who will be chairman of the Judiciary Committee, is
also a well-versed and outspoken opponent of legalization proposals.

Groups favoring reduced immigration cheered the vote on the student bill as a
watershed victory that they said marks the end of a period they have spent on
the defensive.

"The next Congress can start to put unemployed Americans back to work by
eliminating the ability for illegal aliens to hold jobs," said Roy Beck,
president of NumbersUSA, which lobbied hard against the student bill. "Now, we
look forward to moving aggressively to offense."

During the past year, Obama administration officials floated internally some
proposals by which the president and immigration authorities could use
administrative powers to slow deportations of young illegal immigrants who might
have been eligible for legal status under the student bill. They would also ease
up on other illegal immigrants without serious criminal violations.

But King and Smith, as well as several Republican senators, strongly criticized
those measures as "backdoor amnesty" and seem likely to try to prevent the
administration from carrying them out.

The vote last week on the student bill was the second time the measure faltered
in the Senate, after an earlier attempt by Democrats to bring it to the floor in
September was also voted down. Part of the administration's strategy was to ramp
up border and workplace enforcement to attract Republican votes for the broader
overhaul. It is now clear that strategy did not succeed.

"They are very much back at square one," said Edward Alden, a fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations.

Democratic senators expressed bitter disappointment Saturday, but, to the cheers
of illegal immigrant students gathered in the Senate, they vowed to continue to
advocate for the student bill. Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey warned
Republicans that Latino voters would remember the votes.

"I believe we are still a nation that would rather welcome our promising and
patriotic youth with a warm embrace rather than a cold shoulder because of their
parents' actions," Menendez said. "This is a vote that will not soon be
forgotten by a community that is growing not just in size, but also in power and
political awareness."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday

Republicans reaffirm opposition to Dream Act

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans are pronouncing President Obama's
proposal that the next Congress overhaul the country's immigration laws as dead
before arrival.

In his year-end news conference Wednesday, Obama said his biggest regret about
the recent lame-duck session of Congress was the defeat of the Dream Act, a
measure that offered a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants brought
to the country as children.

"It is heartbreaking," Obama said, as he explained how such immigrants often
realized that they were without legal status only when they tried to go to
college or join the military. "That can't be who we are. To have our kids,
classmates of our children, who are suddenly under this shadow of fear through
no fault of their own. They didn't break the law -- they were kids."

Congressional Republicans said in interviews Thursday that their concerns about
the measure remained strong, and both House and Senate GOP leaders said they
would fight any attempt to legalize any of the 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the country before the administration secured the nation's
southern border with Mexico.

"It is pointless to talk about any new immigration bills that grant amnesty
until we secure the border, since such bills will only encourage more illegal
immigration," incoming House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said in a
statement.

In an interview, Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, ranking Republican on the House
immigration subcommittee, accused Obama of playing politics with immigration and
toying with Latino voters.

"It is extraordinarily unlikely that any version of comprehensive immigration
reform that includes amnesty will go through the House of Representatives," he
said.

Obama's call on Congress to pass the Dream Act "polarizes Americans along the
lines of race and ethnicity," King added. "He implies there is a realistic
chance -- he knows better, and therefore it makes it a political statement
designed to gin up his base and pit Americans against Americans."

During the recent contentious congressional debate over the act, Republicans
said the measure would reward violators of the country's immigration laws and
encourage new waves of illegal immigration. They also said that the measure was
lax in allowing some lawbreakers to gain citizenship, and said that the
requirement that Dream Act beneficiaries obtain two years of college education
or military service set the bar too low.

Revising the Dream Act to eliminate those issues would not solve the underlying
problem with the measure, said Stephen Miller, a spokesman for Sen. Jeff
Sessions, R-Ala., who led Senate Republicans in their opposition to the measure.

"When you're traveling in the wrong direction, modest alterations don't make a
difference," Miller said. "You need to get off the road and head down a
different one. As Sen. Sessions has said, the first thing we need to do is end
the massive illegality at the border."

Sessions has previously termed attempts to combine tougher enforcement with
measures to provide legalization for undocumented immigrants a "ruse," because
such measures would grant legal status to undocumented immigrants immediately,
whereas it would defer border security for the future.

Recent analyses suggest that the number of people illegally crossing the border
has declined -- although no one knows how much of the decline is attributable to
tougher border security and how much is because the recent recession has
lessened the availability of jobs.

"My administration has done more on border security than any administration in
recent years," Obama said Wednesday, highlighting sharp increases in resources
for the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, border patrol and
surveillance. Obama said he was open to new measures to improve border security
but also wanted the incoming Congress to pass measures that legalized some
undocumented immigrants.

"I think it is absolutely appropriate for the American people to expect that we
do not have porous borders and anyone can come in here any time," Obama said.
"But I also think about those kids and I want to do right by them."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

Opinion: Navarrette: Obama administration punting on immigration reform

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette San Diego Untion-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 768 words


The paradox of the Obama administration's plan to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform   one of these days, when it gets around to it, be patient,
yada yada   is that the agency responsible for removing illegal immigrants is
now supposed to find a way for millions of them to stay. Given that agency's law
enforcement bent, don't be surprised if it is much better at the former than the
latter.

The Department of Homeland Security is where you'll find U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano is the
administration's point person for immigration reform.

Many Latino liberals naively hoped that, as a Democrat, Napolitano would conjure
up a kinder and gentler version of immigration enforcement, such as a decrease
in deportations and an end to workplace raids. This hasn't happened.

What has is that, under this administration, ICE is supposedly doing more to
crack down on employers who hire illegal immigrants   when it's not praising
those who don't. Homeland Security recently unveiled an effort to spotlight the
hundreds of thousands of companies that use the "e-verify" program, a free
Web-based system that compares information from the Employment Eligibility
Verification Form (I-9) against federal databases to verify workers'
eligibility. The campaign recognizes businesses that use the system in the hopes
that consumers keep that in mind when making decisions.

Fine. But besides handing out blue ribbons, ICE needs to make more arrests of
employers who ignore the law in addition to rounding up the illegal immigrants
they hire. The government should not be shy about continuing work-site raids,
but the net needs to be much wider and catch bigger fish.

Appearing with Napolitano at the news conference to announce the new initiative
was John Morton, assistant secretary for ICE. A former deputy assistant attorney
general in the George W. Bush Justice Department, Morton recently made headlines
by trying to rein in renegade Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., who
is enforcing immigration law despite the fact the administration has denied him
the authority to do so. Addressing the issue of employers, Morton dished some
plain truth.

"The main reason people enter the United States illegally is the opportunity to
work," he said.

He's right. These people don't come for welfare, health care or public schools.
They don't come as part of an invasion force that is intent on converting the
United States into a Spanish-speaking nation so it can become part of Mexico.
Illegal immigrants come to work   mostly at jobs in which Americans have lost
interest. Morton also stressed the importance of employers following the rules
by hiring only those workers who are legally eligible to work.

Yet, enforcement is only part of the equation. During a recent speech to the
Center for American Progress, Napolitano spelled out the rest. Borrowing
language from the Bush administration, she called for a "three-legged stool"
that includes enforcement, pathways for legal immigrants, and "a firm but fair
way to deal with those who are already here."

Enforcement is the province of Homeland Security. But Napolitano doesn't seem
all that eager to deal with the other two legs of the stool. Despite saying that
immigration reform "has been punted from year to year, from Congress to
Congress, from administration to administration," she did the same thing. She
punted.

"When Congress is ready to act," Napolitano said, "we will be ready to support
them."

When Congress is ready to act? Is she kidding? Congress is never ready to act on
difficult issues that make enemies and threaten to terminate the comfy jobs of
legislators. It's true that, according to the Constitution, legislation comes
from one end of Pennsylvania Avenue and not the other. But it's also true that,
as a practical matter, the toughest issues don't get dealt with unless there is
strong and vocal leadership from the White House.

Latinos care about a range of issues. Still, many of the Latino voters who
helped put Barack Obama in the White House expect him to keep his promise and
deliver comprehensive immigration reform. They see the issue as a test of
political courage. Instead, all they've gotten are more promises, stall tactics
and pushed deadlines.

Obama showed up for the debates on an economic stimulus, health care, climate
change, education reform and troop strength in Afghanistan. Why? It's because he
obviously cares about those issues. So Obama doesn't care about fixing the
immigration system?

Now he tells us.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 31, 2009 Thursday

Opinion: The semantic debate over 'illegal' immigrants is a waste of time

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 646 words


SAN DIEGO   Those on the pro-immigrant left have shown considerable courage in
taking on Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz. Minutemen vigilantes,
border walls and an endless supply of lame immigration enforcement measures. But
there's one thing that makes them tremble: the word "illegal."

That's what occurs to me whenever I hear the slogan: "No human being is
illegal." It's the creed of the immigrant rights movement   a cause for which
I'd have warmer feelings if it called itself "the immigrant responsibility
movement." Americans often demand their rights while ignoring their
responsibilities. Immigrants would do well not to adopt those ways.

No human being is illegal. That's nice. It's also nonsense.

Of course, we can do without referring to human beings as "illegals." Even in
the shorthand, adjectives are best not used as nouns. The term "illegal aliens"
is even worse since it intends to dehumanize a whole group of people, perhaps to
make it easier for the rest of us to mistreat them.

But the fact is, these people did break the law, either by entering the country
without permission or by remaining here without permission once their visas
expired. Granted, technically, they're not all criminals. As any Border Patrol
agent will tell you, not everyone who crosses the border uninvited has committed
the same kind of offense. Sure, some are guilty of misdemeanors. Some have
committed felonies if they've been deported before and brazenly re-enter the
United States. But others are guilty of mere administrative violations for which
the punishment isn't incarceration but deportation.

Still, in all these cases, it is accurate to refer to these people as illegal
immigrants. After all, in getting here or staying here without permission, they
did something that was against the law.

Now, thanks to Justice Sonia Sotomayor, one euphemism has recently found its way
into the annals of the Supreme Court. Her first opinion on the high court came
in a case called Mohawk Industries v. Carpenter, which involved a business
accused of employing illegal immigrants. The first Latina on the Supreme Court
preferred the term "undocumented immigrant." According to The New York Times,
this was the first time that a Supreme Court justice had used that expression.
Other justices had gone with "illegal immigrant."

Sotomayor's choice of words got plenty of tongues wagging. The right-wing group
Judicial Watch griped that Sotomayor was "keeping with her race-conscious and
activist judicial philosophy" by describing illegal immigrants "in a more
friendly and politically correct way." But left-wing Latino blogs applauded
Sotomayor for making a positive contribution to the court by adding
"humanitarian language" to its proceedings.

There are conservatives who, during her confirmation process, accused Sotomayor
of promoting an "ethnic chauvinism." And there are liberals who had hoped that
she'd provide a fresh viewpoint and champion the oppressed. Now both sides are
insisting that they were right all along.

I supported Sotomayor's nomination because she is eminently qualified for the
position she now holds. But on the issue of terminology, we part company. For
me, the preferred term is "illegal immigrant." And, frankly, I think the whole
debate amounts to a silly waste of time and energy.

After my recent column that criticized Democrats for trying to deceive Latinos
into thinking that they support immigration reform when what they really support
is their own re-election, a leader of an immigrant rights group agreed with the
premise but still found room to quibble about   of all things   my choice of
words. He wrote: "I wonder why you keep using the word illegal after all these
years of anti-immigrant speech that have included this word to criminalize our
communities."

Maybe because the term fits.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday

Peninsula readers' letters: May 15

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 1004 words


Mexico's draconian immigration laws

Dear Editor: "Hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue."   Francois La
Rochfoucauld.

With boundless hypocrisy, Mexican President Felipe Calderon has accused Arizona
of opening the door "to intolerance, hate, discrimination and abuse in law
enforcement."

Consider some Mexican laws rigorously enforced on foreigners:

* Illegal entrance into the country is a felony punishable by two years of
imprisonment;

* Illegal re-entry is punishable by 10 years imprisonment;

* Foreigners may be expelled without due process;

* Visitors lacking legal documentation and identification are subject to arrest
as illegal aliens;

* Foreigners seeking Mexican citizenship are obligated to provide a birth
certificate, a bank statement confirming economic viability, establish that they
can purchase their own health insurance and pass an exam given in Spanish;

* All levels of law enforcement from the military to local policemen are
compelled by national mandate to enforce all immigration laws;

* Foreigners are barred from entry if they upset the equilibrium of the national
demographics;

* Speech by foreigners advocating pro-illegal alien rights is prohibited.

The application of these and other Mexican immigration laws on Central American
illegal aliens has been so draconian that the Red Cross has protested numerous
times about the severe abuse, coercion and bribery schemes for which the Mexican
government is notorious.

Unmistakably, Mexico is actively enforcing immigration laws that Arizona is
attempting to do to preserve our national sovereignty and safety.

To such duplicitous proclamations from President Felipe Calderon, La Raza and
our liberal media, I proclaim:

Hipócritas.

Tony Favero,

Half Moon Bay

Arizona law piggybacks on federal law

Dear Editor: Arizona must dump its "poorly crafted" anti-illegal alien law.
Otherwise, Americans who see themselves as Latinos first and Americans second
won't like the rest of us. That seems to be the gist of Jagjit Singh's May 13
letter.

But what makes Arizona's law poorly crafted? It just implements federal law
locally, according to nonpartisan fact-checkers such as PolitiFact.com .
Enforcement by properly trained cops is just as tenable as enforcement by
properly trained ICE agents.

And every country I've visited required me to carry valid ID. Why not America?

What we have here is competing narratives. One has Americans sucking vast
numbers of Mexicans up here to do work we won't do, then mistreating them
because we're racists   plus, the Southwest is really Mexico so they're not
really illegals. Thus we get hundreds of Morgan Hill students parading with
Mexican flags, saying we're disrespecting them if we dare to wear American
flag-decorated clothing on their day.

Another narrative starts with Mexico's homegrown overpopulation crisis
(exploding eightfold from 1900 to today), then Mexico's elites encouraging its
poorest and least skilled to come here illegally in vast numbers, competing with
unskilled American laborers, many of them black or Latino, who now suffer from
nearly 20 percent unemployment. Wealthy business owners pocket the profits of
illegal's scab labor, outsourcing all their considerable social costs to
taxpayers.

Either way, a universal biometric ID, used by all state agencies and employers,
would allay accusations of discrimination   yet force many illegals to
self-deport.

Lee Thé

Palo Alto

Check out Mooney

Dear Editor: John K. Mooney, write-in candidate for assessor-county clerk
recorder of San Mateo County, has an uphill battle in his challenge to Mark
Church in the upcoming election. I urge all voters and others interested in
reforming our county government to visit Mr. Mooney's page on the League of
Women Voters' website at:
http://www.smartvoter.org/2010/06/08/ca/sm/vote/mooney_j/ . Mr. Mooney is highly
qualified for the job and deserves your consideration and support. And, while
you are at the League of Women Voters' website, check out the supervisor
candidates and others of interest.

This is an important election. Please, get involved.

John J. "Jack" Hickey, candidate for San Mateo County supervisor

Emerald Hills

Caltrain and bikes

Dear Editor: I appreciate that Caltrain has several conflicting priorities while
preparing trains. Handling bikes is not its only responsibility, but having
stable and well-understood bike capacity is very important for all of us. When a
train arrives with a single bike car, instead of the normal two, that surprise
can inconvenience a lot of people.

Jeff Becker,

San Mateo

Robbing California's poor to pay its rich

Dear Editor: As part of his budget plan, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has proposed
eliminating In-Home Supportive Services, the state's fastest growing social
services program, which pays caregivers to help the disabled and the frail
elderly. Nearly half a million disabled Californians get subsidized home care.

Without the services, many current clients would be forced to move to
skilled-nursing centers that accept Medi-Cal patients. At an average expense of
$55,000 a year, nursing homes cost five times as much per person as an In-Home
Supportive Services client. The number of skilled-nursing center beds has
dwindled through the years as the service's success has grown at helping the
elderly continue living independently.

I was thinking about California being on the brink and going bankrupt. They
can't go on robbing the poor and helping the rich, and get away with it. And
that's exactly what this California economy has been doing for years. California
kept borrowing money and selling bonds, then borrowing more money and all that
kind of stuff. Well, people will trust you so long, and then they quit trusting
your ability to ever pay it back. So if you keep living on borrowed money, there
comes a day when you have to pay it back when those bonds begin to come due. So
we've been robbing the poor. Well that's what happened to California. It's been
going on for years and now California is $20 billion in debt and going up.

Ted Rudow III,

Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Pair arrested for immigration fraud scheme; Watsonville and Soquel residents
among those duped

BYLINE: By Jennifer Squires jsquires@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 489 words


SAN DIEGO   A Tijuana, Mexico man who told undocumented aliens in Soquel and
Watsonville he could help them get United States citizenship   for a price   was
actually running an immigration fraud scheme with a New Mexico woman,
authorities said Monday.

Armando Garcia, 58, and Elizabeth Alcocer, 47, both were charged with a 16-count
federal indictment for conspiracy, mail fraud and aggravated identity
theft-related crimes this month, the Santa Cruz County District Attorney's
Office reported.

Garcia is suspected of taking at least $120,000 from eight to 10 Santa Cruz
County residents, and the pair allegedly were running their fraud operation in
other areas as well, according to Robin Gysin, who runs the consumer affairs
division at the DA's office.

Garcia and Alcocer presented themselves, at various times, as "immigration"
employees and officers, immigration attorneys, persons who could influence the
actions of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and immigration
consultants to undocumented aliens seeking to legally immigrate into or legalize
their status within the U.S., according to the DA's office.

The yearlong investigation culminated June 21 when both suspects were arrested
by federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. Garcia and Alcocer face
federal prison time, fines, restitution and asset forfeiture if convicted.

"I think it's a really worthwhile case and a really sad thing that went on,"
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Rees F. Morgan, who is prosecuting the case.

Morgan declined to comment further on the case, including how many victims have
been identified and what other areas Garcia and Alcocer allegedly duped people.
He also would not say if fraud victims who came forward to report the alleged
crimes but are living in the U.S. illegally would be prosecuted.

In Santa Cruz County, Garcia may have used churches to gain people's trust. A
Soquel man told Gysin that a priest had introduced him to Garcia in 2004 as
someone would could help the man's family gain immigration status in the U.S.
Garcia said it would cost $20,000, according to Gysin.

The Soquel man paid Garcia $14,000 over a two-year period to cover the
immigration costs for him, his wife and their child. At one point, the Soquel
man even traveled to Pico Rivera to sign papers at Garcia's office, but the
immigration numbers were different on each document, Gysin said.

It's suspected Garcia and Alcocer forged other people's names on valid
immigration documents so the pair could show their clients that progress had
been made on the cases.

"That's how he strung along victims," Gysin said. "He wasn't assisting them with
legitimate immigration efforts." The complaints came together when victims
reported incidents to the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project and the
Watsonville Law Center. About 10 victims have come forward in Santa Cruz County.

ICE officials ask anyone with information about the case to call 619-550-5229.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 7, 2011 Friday

House Republicans choose Californian to lead immigration committee

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 669 words


Signaling their approach to immigration reform this year will be hawkish but not
rhetorically extreme, House Republicans have chosen a Southern California
congressman to head the group of lawmakers that drafts and introduces
immigration policy.

The solidly pro-enforcement Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Simi Valley, was named Friday
morning to lead the immigration subcommittee in the House of Representatives,
which falls under the judiciary committee. House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, surprised many when he chose Gallegly over outspoken Iowa Republican
Steve King, who was widely considered to have the job. King will instead be vice
chairman.

Groups that work to halt illegal immigration praised news of the duo's
leadership, but liberal groups interpreted Gallegly's higher position as a
snubbing of King's harsh tone.

"The answer to illegal immigration is fairly simple," Gallegly said in a news
release Friday. "First, we must enforce our laws and secure the border. Second,
we must remove the magnets that encourage illegal immigration. Finally, we must
remove the benefits that make it easy for them to stay."

Gallegly said he would oppose any form of amnesty, and he pledged to quickly
hold hearings to scrutinize the Obama administration's approach to work site
enforcement and to expand the use of E-Verify, a program for employer screening
of workers' immigration status.

Missing from Gallegly's statements Friday was any mention of revoking birthright
citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants, a hot-button cause that has
been a pet issue for King and other immigration hawks. King introduced a bill
earlier in the week that would end automatic citizenship for children born in
the United States to illegal immigrant parents.

"Steve King was dethroned because even the House Republican leadership must
realize that comparing immigrants to livestock and suggesting we keep them out
with an electric fence is offensive to Latino voters," said liberal immigration
advocate Frank Sharry of America's Voice, referring to statements King has made
in the past.

Sharry said Gallegly, while not as outspoken, has an equally tough approach to
illegal immigration.

A former Simi Valley mayor and member of Congress since 1987, Gallegly hails
from the conservative-leaning suburbs of Ventura County. He is based in a
bedroom community known as the resting place of former President Ronald Reagan
but the district also encompasses agriculturally rich regions of Ventura County
and inland Santa Barbara County where illegal immigrants form a major part of
the workforce.

Labor-intensive strawberries are the region's top cash crop, followed by celery,
broccoli, raspberries, wine grapes and lemons, according to the California Farm
Bureau.

"He's extremely supportive of agriculture in Ventura County and has been with us
on every major issue, except immigration," said Tom Nassif, president of
Irvine-based Western Growers, a farm industry group that has supported a path to
citizenship for farmworkers living in the country illegally.

Nassif said he hoped Gallegly would keep an open mind on the issue.

More than a quarter of the residents in Gallegly's congressional district are
Latinos, and the proportion of Latino voters in the district is about 15
percent. The district is mostly cut off from the Pacific Ocean, and the more
liberal voters who live on its shore, by the ribbonlike coastal district of Rep.
Lois Capps, D-Santa Barbara.

Gallegly takes over his post from San Jose Democrat Zoe Lofgren, who led the
immigration subcommittee when Democrats ruled the House.

Aides said Gallegly has long fought illegal immigration, and a conservative
magazine once named him one of the top 10 immigration hawks in Congress.

He was instrumental in the drafting of a 1996 immigration bill that made it
easier to deport illegal immigrants, but was unsuccessful at the time in adding
a provision that would have allowed states to exclude illegal immigrants from
public education.

Contact Matt O'Brien at 925-977-8463.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Report: Police don't enforce immigration law consistently

BYLINE: By Kate Brumback Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; World

LENGTH: 854 words


ATLANTA -- Some local law enforcement agencies, particularly in the Southeast,
are turning over illegal immigrants who commit even minor offenses to federal
authorities for deportation, while others are focused on deporting more violent
criminals, according to a report released Monday.

The report by the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington-based nonpartisan
think tank, said conflicting messages from the U.S. government and local
political pressure may account for the discrepancy.

The study, which examined a program that allows participating local agencies to
enforce federal immigration law, found that several agencies in the Southeast
were turning over every illegal immigrant taken into custody. An influx of
immigrants in the generally conservative region has heightened political
tension, the report said. North Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee and South Carolina
were in the top six in terms of growth rates of foreign-born populations from
1990 to 2009.

"This regional pattern reflects common political pressures that stem from rapid
demographic change," the report said.

The study focused on the 287(g) program -- named for the section of federal law
governing it -- issued by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The U.S.
Homeland Security Department, which includes ICE, in 2009 wrote new contracts
for the local-federal partnerships and issued new guidelines telling local
officers to focus primarily on illegal immigrants charged with crimes like rape,
murder, robbery or drug offenses.

But top U.S. government officials -- who have said the program that is in place
in 71 jurisdictions nationwide can also be useful for deporting illegal
immigrants when resources allow -- offer a conflicting message, the report said.

ICE spokeswoman Gillian Brigham said in an e-mail that the study affirmed the
way ICE enforces immigration law, but that it underestimated the value of
deporting people accused of drunken driving, domestic violence and other
misdemeanors that affect public safety.

The report said ICE needs to do more to ensure consistency in the program, which
critics have said has given rise to racial profiling and civil rights
violations.

The study is based on visits and interviews in seven 287(g) jurisdictions: Cobb
and Gwinnett counties in Georgia; Frederick County, Md.; Los Angeles County,
Calif.; Prince William County, Va.; Las Vegas; and the state of Colorado.
Researchers also analyzed data provided by ICE on all people processed through
the program in all participating jurisdictions.

In the first 10 months of fiscal year 2010, about half the immigrants detained
under the program for transfer to immigration authorities had been accused of
serious crimes, such as rape and murder, according to ICE data. The other half
had been charged with misdemeanor or civil offenses, or only immigration-related
crimes.

Enforcement varied widely in the seven jurisdictions studied. For instance, more
than 70 percent of those detained for transfer in Las Vegas had been charged
with serious crimes. That figure dipped to less than 10 percent in Colorado,
Prince William County, Va., Frederick County, Md., and Cobb County, Ga.

Although about 68 percent of those handed over to immigration authorities in
Colorado were not charged with criminal violations, ICE and state officials say
many of those people were high priority because they were passengers in
smuggling or human trafficking operations.

In Frederick County, Md., and in Cobb and Gwinnett counties in Georgia,
authorities turned over to immigration authorities nearly everyone who could be
deported. However, officials in those counties said they had enough jail space
to detain any person who could be deported, the report said.

The Cobb County Sheriff's Office was the first of four sheriff's offices in
Georgia to participate in the program, signing the agreement in 2007.

"Immigration is a federal issue. However, when illegal aliens come into our
community and commit a crime, it becomes a local issue," Cobb County Sheriff
Neil Warren says on his department's website.

Warren did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday. Gwinnett
County officials said they could not comment because they had not yet seen the
report.

Los Angeles County is unique among the sites studied: Officials don't check
immigration status until someone is convicted of a crime. Still, some 40 percent
of people detained for immigration authorities there had committed only minor
offenses. On the other hand, the 10 jurisdictions with the highest percentage of
people turned over to immigration authorities after committing only traffic
offenses are all in the Southeast, the report said.

"What we see in Los Angeles is clearly a professional approach towards public
safety and law enforcement where resources are allocated and prioritized toward
those that are committing serious crimes," said Jerry Gonzales, executive
director of the Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials. "Whereas in the
Southeast you see the allocation of resources to non-criminal offenses, which
clearly points to a politicized environment that we live in in Georgia."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 5, 2011 Saturday

Opinion: Will: The immigration enforcer

BYLINE: By George F. Will

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 611 words


WASHINGTON -- During his first 18 years in Congress, the view from Lamar Smith's
office was of a parking lot. Now, in his 13th term, he looks out upon the
Capitol dome. Seniority confers perquisites.

Today he chairs the House Judiciary Committee that has custody of the
immigration issue. When first elected, his Texas district -- then 42,000 square
miles, five times larger than Massachusetts -- included 400 miles of the border
with Mexico. His district has meandered north and now is 150 miles from the
border. It includes portions of San Antonio and Austin. But Smith still looks
south, toward the flow of illegal immigration, which he considers a uniquely
comprehensive problem, affecting schools, health care, employment and the
culture.

Smith wants you to know that he is Texas to the marrow of his bones, even if he
did go to Yale. There he was one year behind George W. Bush. When his ancestors
got to Texas in the 1850s, they were immigrants entering an established Hispanic
culture. He notes that San Antonio is a "tri-cultural city" -- 7 percent
African-American, 30 percent Anglo and 60 percent Hispanic. America, he says,
has the world's "most generous legal immigration policies. We admit as many
legal immigrants as the rest of the world combined."

Regarding illegal immigration, however, he proposes a program of "attrition
through enforcement." Workplace enforcement, that is.

He says such enforcement has declined 70 percent in the last two years, and
fines levied on employers of illegal immigrants are treated by businesses as a
bearable cost of doing business as usual. Nationally, 250,000 businesses are
using E-Verify, the program to quickly validate the legality of workers, and
each week another 1,300 businesses sign up for the system.

Although half a million persons are caught trying to enter the country illegally
each year, Border Patrol agents tell Smith that two to four get in for every one
apprehended. Hence his estimate that up to 2 million are entering illegally each
year.

He thinks some physical barrier is necessary, but no barrier will be sufficient.
We must "reduce the attraction of the job magnet" so fewer illegal immigrants
will come here and more will go home. Workplace enforcement is a "disincentive
to enter and an incentive to leave."

Some people say such policies will put Hispanic votes beyond the reach of
Republicans. Smith serenely disagrees.

He believes, on the basis of quotes he is pleased to share, that many on the
left see amnesty for illegal immigrants as a way to build a permanent Democratic
majority. He, however, is confident that Republicans can compete for Hispanic
votes while -- indeed, by -- insisting that everyone "play by the rules."

Notice, he says, that in 2010 the three Hispanics elected in statewide races --
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez and Nevada Gov. Brian
Sandoval -- were all Republicans. In Texas, two new Hispanics were elected to
Congress, Quico Canseco and Bill Flores, both Republicans. Like the other three
freshman Hispanics in the House (Idaho's Raul Labrador, Washington's Jaime
Herrera Beutler and Florida's David Rivera, all Republicans), Canseco and Flores
stress border security.

Smith does not flinch from questioning the practice of "birthright citizenship"
-- awarding citizenship to anyone born in America, including children whose
parents are here illegally.

He favors ending birthright citizenship as currently administered and thinks it
is possible to "write a statute to get five votes" on the court. If he does
write one, this soft-spoken man will be carrying a big stick of legislative
dynamite.

George F. Will is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 14, 2011 Monday

Peninsula readers' letters: March 15

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 1060 words


Hispanics want immigration laws enforced, too

Dear Editor: A March 9 column by Tom Elias, "GOP should cool rhetoric against
illegal residents," asserts pro-enforcement policies are anti-immigrant. The
author also claims the pro-enforcement agenda jeopardizes the Republican Party's
future with Hispanic voters. These allegations are erroneous.

The November 2010 election results actually paint a very bright future for the
Republican Party. In fact, exit polls showed that 38 percent of Hispanic voters
cast ballots for House Republican candidates -- more than the 30 percent in 2006
and 29 percent in 2008. And the Senate also saw seats held by pro-amnesty
incumbents change to pro-enforcement candidates.

Many Hispanic voters support efforts to enforce our immigration laws. Republican
Latino candidates in Florida, New Mexico and Nevada -- all of which have large
Hispanic populations -- won statewide races while calling for enhanced border
security and enforcement of immigration laws.

The pro-enforcement movement is not strictly Republican; it is American. And it
is not anti-Hispanic; it is pro rule of law. Time and again, American voters
have overwhelmingly defeated amnesty attempts, including the 2007 comprehensive
immigration reform and last year's push for the DREAM Act. To attract even more
Hispanic voters in the future, Republicans should continue to emphasize our
shared values of economic growth, improved education and strong national
security.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas

Chairman, House Judiciary Committee

Stop funding Israeli military

Dear Editor: Before traveling to and living in the Arab world, I would probably
have agreed with both Alfred Lerner (Letters, March 9) and Stephen Fisher
(Letters, March 11). Now that I have traveled through Lebanon, Jordan, and
occupied Palestine (the West Bank and East Jerusalem), immersed myself in
graduate Arab studies at Georgetown, interviewed many Palestinians and other
Arabs, and attended numerous conferences on this subject, I have an entirely
different perspective. It turns out that most of what I was raised to believe
about Israel and Palestine is not true.

Our media only covers the Israeli side of the story, so I educate Americans who
cannot travel to the West Bank and East Jerusalem to see for themselves. The
Israeli settlements in the West Bank and East Jerusalem are illegal under
international law. This is not in dispute. In fact, from the moment the United
Nations gave away the majority of historic Palestine to a minority of the
population, in direct opposition to the expressed desires of indigenous Arabs to
govern themselves as documented in President Wilson's King-Crane Commission,
Israel has not stopped expanding its boundaries.

My congresswoman, Anna Eshoo, is co-sponsoring a bill to give $3.025 billion of
our tax dollars in unconditional military aid to Israel. I call upon her to
reverse this action. Much of Israel's American-made munitions are used against
Palestinians peacefully and lawfully demonstrating against the unlawful theft of
their land by Israel.

In order for Israel to be created, Palestine had to be destroyed. What was not
given to Israel by the United Nations has been conquered and occupied since
then, putting Israel in violation of the Geneva Conventions.

Congresswoman Anna Eshoo, my lifelong representative, has the opportunity to be
at the forefront of a more just and humane policy toward the Middle East, and
she is choosing not to do so.

Diana Galbraith,

Mountain View

Connect the dots

Dear Editor: The golden boy of the Palestinian National Authority, prime
minister Salam Fayyad, says he "firmly condemns" the revolting murder of a
family of five in the Israeli town of Itamar on Friday night. The killing
included a mother, father, 11-year-old, 3-year-old and a 1-month-old. Their
throats were slit while they slept on their Sabbath evening.

Hamas praised this event as a heroic act, but failed to take credit. Fayyad's
current strategy is to build bridges between Fatah, his own group, and Hamas. I
wonder if the apparent difference in philosophy shown by his condemnation and
Hamas' praise of the same event will make Fayyad think again. More importantly,
I wonder if the Obama administration, which also condemned the Itamar incident,
will face the fact that Hamas' parent organization is the Egyptian Muslim
Brotherhood, and connect the dots.

And maybe those folks who are criticizing the current King hearings about
Islamic terrorism will put their thinking caps on and realize that anything and
anyone connected even remotely with the Muslim Brotherhood presents a threat to
our way of life.

Desmond Tuck,

San Mateo

Our leaders at work

Dear Editor: One out of five Americans is out of work. Gasoline is $4 a gallon
and rising. The federal government, along with many states, cities and counties,
is broke. The Mideast is on fire and about to explode. We could be facing World
War III. The national debt is in trillions.

And yet U.S. Sen. Harry Reid is upset because "Cowboy Poetry Week" will be
canceled. Is there something wrong with this picture? Do our elected officials
have any idea what is going on in the world? The answer seems obvious.

Keith C. De Filippis,

San Jose

Attention Stanford shoppers

Dear Editor: A modest proposal: Levy a tax of 2 percent of all purchases on
shoppers at the Stanford Shopping Center for one week to pay for the resurfacing
of El Camino Real where it intersects the center's parking lot access paving.
The customers of this very high-end shopping emporium have worn out the roadway
used by hundreds of thousands of local drivers. Let them pay to have it
repaired.

Jim Blake,

Redwood City

No parking means no parking

Dear Editor: I want to thank all the people who were at the track meet at Los
Gatos High on March 13 who can neither read nor park legally. Yes, parking at
the high school is limited, but this does not entitle you to park in "No
Parking" zones.

Our winter percussion group had a competition on Saturday, and it took us more
than an hour to track down all of the owners who parked their cars illegally and
blocked access to our trailers.

No parking zones are there for a reason, the most important one is fire lanes.
Had a fire broken out, or had there been a medical emergency, help would have
been severely delayed because many people were too lazy to park and walk a short
distance.

Pam Ashford,

Los Gatos

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday

City toughens its rules to prevent illegal hires

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 361 words


ESCONDIDO -- A city that has taken numerous steps to crack down on illegal
immigration is at it again -- this time joining a string of Southern California
municipalities that are signing up to tap a federal database aimed at tighter
scrutiny of employees' immigration status.

Escondido's measure is modest compared with how others have embraced the free
E-Verify tool, an online federal database used by employers nationwide.

The City Council voted 4-1 Wednesday to require all city contractors to use the
screening for new hires and earlier this month began doing the same for all new
city employees earlier this month.

E-Verify allows employers to run a worker's information against Department of
Homeland Security and Social Security databases to check whether the person is
permitted to work in the U.S.

The Obama administration has made cracking down on employers who hire people
here illegally a central part of its immigration enforcement policy.

Much of the criticism of E-Verify has focused on whether U.S. citizens and legal
immigrants with permission to work were falsely flagged as illegal workers.
Immigration officials have been taking steps to improve such inaccuracies.

Al's Towing, which has a contract to tow vehicles for the police department,
signed up E-Verify when owner Josh Park learned the city might make it
mandatory. Previously, he examined a job applicant's documents and gave his
blessings as long as they looked legitimate to his naked eye. Now, he says, he
has an extra safeguard to ensure his employees are legally entitled to work.

"We were required by law to verify to a certain extent, this just allows you to
check it," said Park, one of more than 250,000 employers nationwide -- including
about 100 in Escondido -- who have enrolled in E-Verify. "Before, there was no
tool to use."

Juan Gonzalez, an illegal immigrant from Mexico who makes about $75 a day as a
laborer, says the new measure will have limited impact because it is limited to
city contractors and doesn't apply to those who hire him.

"There is work, but it's on the farms, landscaping, tearing off roofs -- the
kind of work that many people won't do for $10 an hour," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Opinion: May Day, not Labor Day, is the real worker and immigrant rights day

BYLINE: By Sharat G. Lin Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 642 words


On May 1, 2006, a quarter of a million people poured into the streets of San
Jose in what was probably the largest political demonstration in Northern
California history. They came out to protest the Illegal Immigration Control Act
(HR 4437), which would have criminalized undocumented immigrants. The nationwide
protests effectively stopped the bill in its tracks.

Marches for immigration reform have taken place on May 1 every year since. Join
Sunday's rally for workers' and immigrant rights with a march to San Jose City
Hall beginning at Story and King roads at 3 p.m.

Although little known to many Americans today, May Day was born in the United
States out of the struggle of immigrant workers.

In 1884, the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions, predecessor of the
American Federation of Labor (AFL), called for an eight-hour workday. When talks
broke down, a general strike was called in Chicago on May 1, 1886. Some 80,000
workers marched down Chicago's Michigan Avenue in what is generally recognized
as the first May Day parade. Supporting strikes broke out in other cities, such
as Milwaukee, Cincinnati and New York.

On May 3, four striking workers were killed by police at the McCormick Reaper
Works in Chicago. The next evening at a rally in Haymarket Square in protest
against the killings, police moved in to disperse the crowd when a bomb went
off, killing seven policemen. Police retaliated by firing into the workers,
killing and wounding an unknown number of civilians.

Determined to crush the labor agitations, police interrogations and arrests went
on through the night and ensuing days. In a reign of terror, the homes of
workers, mostly immigrants from Europe, were raided in the middle of the night.
Many innocent people were arrested without charges. Eight people were eventually
convicted for the deaths of the policemen, even though no evidence was ever
presented directly linking them to the bombing in Haymarket Square. Four of the
defendants were publicly hanged in 1887.

In Paris in 1889, the International Workingmen's Association called for
worldwide demonstrations on May 1, 1890, commemorating the struggle of Chicago
workers.

It took another three decades for workers to win the eight-hour working day
through struggles with individual companies. Finally, the Adamson Act was passed
by Congress in 1916, establishing a statutory eight-hour working day for railway
workers with additional pay for overtime work.

Today May Day is celebrated in most countries around the world as International
Workers' Day. Among major nations, the United States is the only one in which
the government and the trade union bureaucracy have consistently resisted
recognition of May Day, fearing the connection with labor movements around the
world. Seeking an alternative date, Labor Day was created on Sept. 5, 1882, in
New York City. However, it was not until 1894 that Congress made Labor Day a
national holiday. But divorced from the heritage of labor struggle, Labor Day
became a completely depoliticized holiday.

In contrast, May Day, because of its deep roots in the U.S. labor movement, is
richly symbolic of labor activism. Though celebrated abroad, May Day originated
from the very U.S. trade union movement that brought about the basic eight-hour
working day that we now take for granted.

The immigrant workers' movement of today, in campaigning for humane immigration
reform, an end to raids that break up families, and for the right of workers to
unionize at work and organize in their communities, is following in the
footsteps of the heroic Chicago workers. May Day is a true American tradition of
immigrant workers yearning for inclusion as Americans.


SHARAT G. LIN, Ph.D., is president of the San Jose Peace and Justice Center. He
writes on labor migration and global political economy and wrote this for this
newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Illegal immigration dragnet change moves forward in state Senate

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 623 words


SACRAMENTO -- A movement to permit California cities and counties to drop out of
a federal immigration enforcement dragnet moved one step closer to the desk of
Gov. Jerry Brown on Tuesday.

The state Senate Public Safety Committee voted 5-2 to send the Trust Act on to
the Appropriations Committee and eventually a full Senate vote this summer. The
Assembly has passed the bill, which would permit the state to modify an
agreement with the Department of Homeland Security that allows federal agents to
find immigrants held at local jails.

Brown, as attorney general, signed the Secure Communities agreement in 2009 and
defended it while running for governor last year, but immigrant advocates say
the network aimed at deporting the worst criminals casts too wide a net.

Some law enforcers and lawmakers who once backed the program are changing their
minds, said the Trust Act's sponsor, Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco.

Government figures show that of the nearly 4,000 Bay Area immigrants deported
through the program since the region joined the network last year, 38 percent
were not criminals. Being in the country illegally is a civil violation, but not
a crime.

"I think there's been a sea change," Ammiano said. "They were spun a bill of
goods. Now, we're trying to right the ship."

The bill passed through the public safety committee along partisan lines
Tuesday, with five Democrats supporting it and the two Republicans voting
against it. Ammiano said he was confident that his bill can also pass the full
Senate, which Democrats also control, and he said advocates are now directing
their attention at changing Brown's mind about the program he vigorously
supported as attorney general. Brown could veto or sign the bill if it passes
the Senate.

"I think if he's given the right information, he can save a lot of face,"
Ammiano said.

Dozens of immigrants and their advocates spoke for the bill Tuesday in the
Capitol. Among the advocates was Arturo Venegas, a former Sacramento police
chief.

"Law enforcement across the nation were told this effort was to target serious
offenders," Venegas said. Instead, he argued the program was detaining and
deporting tens of thousands of immigrants with low-level offenses and civil
infractions, turning county jails into immigrant detention facilities, eroding
police relationships with immigrant communities and emboldening some police
officers to racially profile.

"We call it the Trojan horse," Venegas said. "It enables individuals to allow
their biases to come out."

Venegas argued that the agreement also puts California sheriffs, who run the
county jails, in a tough spot.

As the link between the police officers who arrest immigrants and the federal
agents who deport them, Venegas said, sheriffs get associated with the program's
controversial results and also bear most of the financial costs.

"The cost ultimately doesn't go back to the city that makes the arrest, the cost
goes back to the counties, and they have no control over it," Venegas said.

The lone opponent at the hearing Tuesday was a representative of the California
State Sheriffs' Association. The group supports Secure Communities, said Curtis
Hill, a former San Benito County sheriff who opposes Ammiano's bill. But he
added that San Francisco Sheriff Michael Hennessy, who opposes Secure
Communities, had addressed some of the main concerns he had.

Some sheriffs were concerned that dropping out of the immigration enforcement
network would jeopardize the federal money jails get for holding immigrants
wanted by the federal government.

However, that money is not tied to the Secure Communities program, and jails get
no money for all the non-criminals netted through the program, Ammiano and the
bill's supporters said.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 7, 2011 Thursday

Herhold: Comprehensive immigration reform is a mirage

BYLINE: By Scott Herhold Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Local; Columnists; Columnists

LENGTH: 559 words


Over the last two weeks, America's chattering classes have fixated on the story
of Jose Antonio Vargas, a prizewinning ex-Washington Post reporter who grew up
in Mountain View. In a piece in The New York Times, Vargas, 30, revealed a
long-held secret: He is an illegal immigrant.

On the day that Vargas' story ran, Democratic senators began a last brave push
for "comprehensive immigration reform," a mantra for those who want to fix the
system.

The planks of this idea have always sounded solid: stiffer borders, more
detailed checks of IDs by employers, and a path to citizenship for millions in
this country illegally.

It's hard to question an idea this well-meaning. But as I look at the politics
of this issue, I'm convinced comprehensive immigration reform is a mirage, a
flash of water in the desert.

It won't happen because too many people have a stake in the status quo. And the
effort probably won't help Vargas.

Begin with the politicians. In tough times, undocumented immigrants offer a
convenient punching bag for Republicans. In the GOP version, the "illegals"
steal jobs, weaken schools, grab benefits. Reform would remove a handy cudgel
against Democrats.

By the same token, Democratic politicians realize that the boom in immigrants
will benefit them even without reform. With new generations trending Democratic,
Arizona, Nevada and even Texas could become reliably blue states.

Economics

Fundamentally, economics speaks against reform. As long as the disparity in
wages looms large between the U.S. and poorer nations, resourceful people will
strive to find a way into the country. Employers seeking cheap labor won't
examine documents too closely.

Intriguingly, The New York Times reported Wednesday that a combination of forces
-- better education, rising border crime and smaller families -- has
dramatically slowed the Mexican migration to America.

But my point still holds: If you erect a 90-foot electrified barrier, or
something comparable, it can't be good for the job security of border guards or
the bottom line of their SUV makers.

Even local police have an interest in preserving things as they are now. A
police detective can use the threat of deportation to help crack a case.

In sum, we have a well-intentioned idea endorsed by lots of good people who face
quiet but enormous opposition from powerful forces with reasons not to change
anything.

It's as if in the wake of Prohibition, we said, "We need comprehensive alcohol
reform. We need to require folks to drink responsibly, punish those who don't,
and limit hard liquor." Sensible. And unworkable.

Benefits

What's the answer? Well, first, we ought to have a clear understanding of the
problem. We should understand that immigration, both legal and illegal, has
brought enormous benefits to America.

Very often, the undocumented are doing work that Americans don't want to do.
They work hard, raise families, buy American goods. Our phobia about illegal
immigration reflects our economic fears.

The perfect shouldn't stall the good. "Comprehensive immigration reform" sounds
like a sweeping solution. But if it hinders more modest approaches like the
Dream Act, which would allow citizenship for people brought here as children --
people who show drive, like Vargas -- it becomes not just a mirage. It
approaches folly.

Contact Scott Herhold at sherhold@mercurynews.com or 408-275-0917.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and immigration reform activist Jose
Antonio Vargas, who recently revealed that he is an undocumented immigrant,
third from left, leaves a Senate subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and
Border Security hearing regarding the DREAM Act, Tuesday, June 28, 2011, on
Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)
Unidentified migrants, who did not wish to give their names, from the state of
Jalisco, Mexico, cross the waters of the Rio Grande, with the help of two
"coyotes" or smugglers, in an attempt to reach the U.S. border, in Nuevo Laredo,
Mexico on Thursday, May 18, 2006. Migrants preparing to cross the border in
Nuevo Laredo said they would prefer to climb walls than make dangerous trips
through the desert into Arizona and New Mexico, routes that have become popular
after U.S. authorities made it tougher to cross near San Diego and El Paso,
Texas. (AP Photo/German Garcia)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 373 words


Alabama

Civil rights groups sue to block immigration law

Civil rights groups sued Friday in federal court to block Alabama's new law
cracking down on illegal immigration, which supporters and opponents have called
the strictest measure of its kind in the nation.

The lawsuit, filed in Huntsville, claims the new law will make criminals out of
church workers who provide shelter to immigrants and even citizens who give
their neighbors a ride to the store or to the doctor's office.

The lawsuit said the measure goes well beyond similar laws passed in Arizona,
Utah, Indiana and Georgia. Federal judges already have blocked all or parts of
the laws in those states.

Alabama's law, which takes effect Sept. 1, allows police to arrest anyone
suspected of being an illegal immigrant if the person is stopped for some other
reason. It also requires businesses to check the legal status of new workers;
makes it a crime to knowingly give a ride to an illegal immigrant; and makes it
a crime for landlords to knowingly rent to illegal immigrants.

Wyoming

Man charged with murder after deaths of 3 sons

A man opened fire inside a Wyoming mobile home, killing his three sons and a
brother and injuring his wife, authorities said Friday.

Everett Conant III surrendered and was charged with first-degree murder,
attempted first-degree murder, battery and a weapons violation. The murder and
attempted-murder charges carry sentences of death or life without parole.

Police found the bodies of the three boys and the brother, who was fatally
wounded, inside the home Thursday in Wheatland, about 70 miles north of
Cheyenne. The woman was shot twice but was listed in good condition at a
hospital.

Oregon

Fishermen drifted in boat along coast for five days

Tuna fisherman Jim Clayholt said Friday that he and his son rigged makeshift
sails to keep their disabled boat on course as they drifted south for five days
along the Oregon Coast.

The 54-year-old Clayholt and his 23-year-old son, Tom Clayholt, were towed to
shore after they got a radio message through Friday to the Coast Guard.

Coast guard aircraft had been searching for them since Thursday after their
relatives got a text message from the disabled vessel and notified authorities.

From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 8, 2011 Friday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 373 words


Alabama

Civil rights groups sue to block immigration law

Civil rights groups sued Friday in federal court to block Alabama's new law
cracking down on illegal immigration, which supporters and opponents have called
the strictest measure of its kind in the nation.

The lawsuit, filed in Huntsville, claims the new law will make criminals out of
church workers who provide shelter to immigrants and even citizens who give
their neighbors a ride to the store or to the doctor's office.

The lawsuit said the measure goes well beyond similar laws passed in Arizona,
Utah, Indiana and Georgia. Federal judges already have blocked all or parts of
the laws in those states.

Alabama's law, which takes effect Sept. 1, allows police to arrest anyone
suspected of being an illegal immigrant if the person is stopped for some other
reason. It also requires businesses to check the legal status of new workers;
makes it a crime to knowingly give a ride to an illegal immigrant; and makes it
a crime for landlords to knowingly rent to illegal immigrants.

Wyoming

Man charged with murder after deaths of 3 sons

A man opened fire inside a Wyoming mobile home, killing his three sons and a
brother and injuring his wife, authorities said Friday.

Everett Conant III surrendered and was charged with first-degree murder,
attempted first-degree murder, battery and a weapons violation. The murder and
attempted-murder charges carry sentences of death or life without parole.

Police found the bodies of the three boys and the brother, who was fatally
wounded, inside the home Thursday in Wheatland, about 70 miles north of
Cheyenne. The woman was shot twice but was listed in good condition at a
hospital.

Oregon

Fishermen drifted in boat along coast for five days

Tuna fisherman Jim Clayholt said Friday that he and his son rigged makeshift
sails to keep their disabled boat on course as they drifted south for five days
along the Oregon Coast.

The 54-year-old Clayholt and his 23-year-old son, Tom Clayholt, were towed to
shore after they got a radio message through Friday to the Coast Guard.

Coast guard aircraft had been searching for them since Thursday after their
relatives got a text message from the disabled vessel and notified authorities.

From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Government will stop deporting some illegal immigrants, allow them to work

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 684 words


The government will stop deporting many students and other illegal immigrants
who are not a public safety threat and permit them to work in the country
legally, the Obama administration announced Thursday.

A new federal group will review the 300,000 backlogged deportation cases with an
eye toward prosecuting criminals and other high-priority cases. But authorities
will effectively close the cases of many upstanding high school and college
students who were brought here illegally, military veterans, and adults with no
criminal record and strong family ties to the United States.

"This case-by-case approach will enhance public safety," wrote Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano in a letter to members of Congress.

"Immigration judges will be able to more swiftly adjudicate high-priority cases,
such as those involving convicted felons."

Opponents criticized the move as "administrative amnesty" or "backdoor amnesty,"
while Democratic leaders cheered the change and some immigrant advocates said it
was not enough.

The policy does not affect most of the more than 10 million people estimated to
be living in the United States illegally; it only favors those who have already
been placed in deportation proceedings.

Napolitano said the policy change "will not provide categorical relief for any
group," and said it did not alleviate the need for congressional immigration
reform.

Illegal immigrants determined to be a low priority for deportation will
effectively have their cases closed, but immigration agents can reopen them at
any time; the cases won't be dismissed, just set aside, officials said in a
conference call Thursday.

"It makes no sense to spend our enforcement resources on these low-priority
cases," said Cecilia Muñoz, the White House's director of intergovernmental
affairs, in a blog post.

The case-by-case reviews will be based on guidelines established in June by a
memorandum from the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which said
agents should use discretion when dealing with illegal immigrants with longtime
residency in the U.S. who do not have criminal convictions and have not
repeatedly violated immigration laws. Among those considered a low priority are
spouses -- both opposite-sex and same-sex -- of U.S. citizens.

Officials said immigrants deemed a low priority also could get permission to
work in the United States.

Some immigrant activists said the announcement fell short of the immigration
reform many have been fighting for.

"It is too soon to say whether these are simply cosmetic changes," said former
Antioch resident Prerna Lal, a law school student at George Washington
University in Washington, D.C., who is scheduled to be deported to Fiji as early
as this fall.

Lal said the changes might make her life easier but do "nothing for immigrants
in limbo who are not in removal proceedings and don't fit the narrowly defined
criteria."

Lal, however, credited activists for pressuring the Obama administration, which
has deported record-high numbers of people, to make the changes.

Immigrants this week rallied in Los Angeles and other cities to protest the
administration's centerpiece Secure Communities program, which allows federal
agents to track down and detain immigrants whenever they are fingerprinted at
local jails.

More than 4,600 Bay Area immigrants have been deported as a result of Secure
Communities since the nine-county region joined the network last year. Of those
deported, 36 percent had no criminal record.

The administration has said its program targets serious criminals, but advocates
have long asserted the dragnet picks up many people arrested in minor traffic
violations.

Being in the country illegally is a civil violation, but not a crime. Napolitano
said that for the first time in history and as a result of Secure Communities,
half the immigrants deported nationwide last year were criminals, and most of
the others were repeat violators of immigration laws. The new policy announced
Thursday, she said, will help put even more focus on deporting convicted
criminals.

Staff writer Mike Rosenberg contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigrant rights groups and community members call in Los Angeles
Monday, Aug. 15, 2011, for an end to the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS)
Secure Communities program, which was created in 2008 and calls for police to
submit suspects' fingerprints to DHS so they can be cross-checked with federal
deportation orders. (AP Photo/Damian Dovarganes)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Illegal immigrants get boost in new California laws

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 726 words


As states such as Alabama and Georgia make waves with a hard-line approach to
illegal immigration, California took a leap in the other direction this weekend
when Gov. Jerry Brown signed a host of bills that make the nation's biggest
state one of the most accepting of immigrants living here illegally.

Some saw the flurry of new laws, especially the California Dream Act, as a
rejection of the political fervor against illegal immigration in other parts of
the country.

"Wherever California goes, so does the nation. It may put a halt to some of
this," said Assemblyman Paul Fong, D-Cupertino, whose bill to block mandatory
checks of the immigration status of workers also was signed by the governor
Sunday.

"It is costly and burdensome and unfair for businesses to act as immigration
officers," Fong said of his bill, AB 1236, which prohibits local governments
from making the federal E-Verify program mandatory for employers.

Only a handful of cities -- Lancaster, Temecula, Lake Elsinore and Murrieta --
have made the electronic employee checks mandatory, but Fong said dozens were
considering it and a congressional bill by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, proposes
to make E-Verify mandatory nationwide.

"We voted to make it optional," Fong said. "It should be that way until they fix
up the system, which doesn't seem to be able to be fixed."

Brown's biggest move on immigration was signing the California Dream Act, which
allows thousands of undocumented students to apply for financial aid at state
colleges and universities.

But he also signed a law that will curtail police checkpoints and vehicle
impoundments that have led to disproportionate detention of immigrant drivers
and another law to protect the unionization rights of farm workers, many of whom
are unauthorized workers.

"California is often the trailblazer when it comes to these kinds of issues,"
said Kevin Johnson, dean of the law school at UC Davis.

The California Dream Act, in particular, may spur the Obama administration and
Congress to take more action on reforming a complicated immigration system that
has forced states to create their own patchwork of laws, Johnson said.

Republicans disagreed and instead believe that the new laws will fall flat
nationally and among much of California's frustrated residents.

"It's a direction that other states aren't following," said Tom Del Beccaro,
chairman of the state's Republican Party. "We're saying the citizens of other
countries -- call them whatever you like -- should have certain benefits. That
doesn't make any sense, except for the fact that Jerry Brown is trying to make
political points."

In 1994, California pioneered a tough approach to illegal immigration when
voters passed Proposition 187, aimed at excluding illegal immigrants from an
array of public services, from health care to schools. Now, a different
political climate holds sway in the state.

No one was happier about Brown's moves this weekend than undocumented students.
UC Berkeley students celebrated the new law at an afternoon media conference
Monday.

"It relieves a lot of the financial stress," said Martha Hernandez, 19, a
freshman who was valedictorian at her San Bernardino high school. "My worst fear
coming to Berkeley was attending, but then being forced to drop out."

The Honduran immigrant said her father, who lays carpet for a living, cannot
afford to send her to Berkeley and she has relied on temporary private
scholarships. Starting in January 2013, when the bill takes effect and she is in
her third year, Hernandez will be able to apply for public aid.

Some Republican lawmakers have promised to give California voters a chance to
repeal the Dream Act before it takes effect.

Graduating senior Catherine Eusebio, who was born in the Philippines, said she
expects the Dream Act will "generate a lot of negativity in California, but it's
so important for we as Californians to take a stand."

UC Davis alum Blanca Hernandez said it is too late for her -- the Richmond
resident graduated in 2008 -- but she said the bill will help new generations
overcome some of the financial hurdles that almost put her education out of
reach.

"For a lot of people in California, this is an important step forward," she
said. "Seeing how many states are stepping backward, California is stepping up."

---


IN MORNING REPORT

Brown delivers and disappoints for both GOP, Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cal student Martha Hernandez speaks during a press conference
celebrating the recent signing of AB 131 at the University of California in
Berkeley, Calif. Monday, Oct. 10, 2011. AB 131, also known as the CA DREAM Act,
clears hurdles for undocumented students as they pursue higher education.
(Kristopher Skinner/Staff)
Cal student Ju Hong speaks during a press conference celebrating the recent
signing of AB 131 at the University of California in Berkeley, Calif. Monday,
Oct. 10, 2011. AB 131, also known as the CA DREAM Act, clears hurdles for
undocumented students as they pursue higher education. (Kristopher
Skinner/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

April 28 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 757 words


Undocumented workers are illegal

Regarding the opinion (Editorial, April 27) "Don't follow Arizona's lead on
immigration reform," I agree that Arizona has to balance jobs and security. The
job market alone could start by sending undocumented workers back to their
country of origin by asking for proof of citizenship. The newspaper suggests we
"create a way for undocumented workers already here to earn citizenship." Have
you forgotten that any undocumented worker in this country has broken the law by
crossing our borders illegally? That is suggesting to everyone who wants to
become a citizen of the U.S. to get here quickly, not wait their turn, so when a
blanket amnesty is passed they will be here and ready to get on the bandwagon
for such a great deal.

Jean Adams

San Jose

Treat us like people regardless of color

So, Stephen Hawking, you say it's "too risky" to contact beings from other
planets? You must be thinking about moving to Arizona because of your anti-alien
rhetoric. We don't like being called "Space Aliens." We see ourselves as
"Citizens of the Universe".

I know many of you are afraid that we are just here to breed your women and use
our mind control powers to make you vote for people no one had ever heard of,
like Barrack Obama and Sarah Palin. But we just want to be treated like people
no matter if our skin color is white, brown, black, yellow, invisible or green.
We should not be forced to carry identifier chips to be scanned by police robots
to prove that we are legally allowed to be here on this planet.

Marc Perkel

Gilroy

We need a law like Arizona's

I think we should strongly support the Arizona initiative that is putting teeth
into curbing the hordes of illegal immigrants coming over their borders. We
should urge our own elected officials to give us the same laws that will slowly
empty our jails, our schools and our system of the freeloaders. We need to
return them to their country and give their jobs to our own children, returning
veterans and the unemployed.

I have zero patience with people who have no legal right to be here taking up
space, jobs, services and support from all of us at our expense.

Peter Brown

San Jose

Council needs to take care of citizens

I am of the opinion that the majority of the San Jose City Council is way out of
touch with their nonunion taxpayers. With the city's deficit reaching $116
million, I would think it is definitely a "time out" period! Contemplating
taking on new debt associated with the A's baseball team coming to San Jose or
supporting the purchase of the same land for office buildings/housing
development is very untimely.

The taxpayers have done their part; the council needs to do its part, i.e.,
taking care of the citizens of San Jose.

Marcia Harris

San Jose

A's stadium would help city grow

Many of residents of the NOSH (North of Orchard Supply Hardware) area of San
Jose are excited about the potential for the city of San Jose to finally grow up
and become a dynamic, energetic metropolis. Several weeks ago transportation
experts held an open forum meeting at city hall to enlist public opinion on
their vision of a transportation hub for the South Bay.

I would hope that the City Council will value the needed purchase of more
property in the proposed baseball stadium area directly adjacent to the
transport hub located at the Diridon Station. The city needs to indicate its
serious intent to be the home of the South Bay A's by following through with its
consolidation of needed real estate. A viable city needs to demonstrate its
resiliency and provide the infrastructure necessary to match the vision of
brilliant young planners that envision a transportation hub that includes
high-speed rail, BART, Amtrak and light rail.

Terry J. Coman

San Jose

Fiorina at HP: Gold into lead

David W.Packard (Opinion, April 23) was right on the mark. Carly Fiorina is a
modern-day alchemist who tried to turn gold into lead and almost succeeded
before she was ousted from HP. Fortunately HP hired Mark Hurd who was able to
reverse this process and save HP's core values.

Vijaya Raghavan

Los Altos

Tax returns don't tell whole story

One should not assume that Tom Campbell's total charitable donations were $600
based on the figure noted on his tax return. It could be he generally chooses
not to claim an income tax deduction for donations he freely gives, believing
that he should be responsible for all the gifts, rather than have his fellow
taxpayers share the burden. Looking at my tax returns, some might assume I have
never given anything to charity.

Barbara Grant

Belmont

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

S.F. mayor bans city travel to Arizona in protest of immigration law

BYLINE: Bay City News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 375 words


SAN FRANCISCO   San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom Tuesday imposed a moratorium on
city employee travel to the state of Arizona for official business and announced
the creation of a task force to determine how best to extricate the city from
its Arizona-related contracts.

The actions are in response to a new anti-immigration measure signed into law
last week by Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, and come one day after San Francisco City
Attorney Dennis Herrera issued a statement calling the law "draconian" and
criticized the state for choosing "to isolate itself from the rest of the
nation."

The moratorium is effective immediately as the mayor and others are considering
an official city boycott of the state and take steps "to develop a smart and
effect boycott that sends the appropriate message to Arizona while protecting
the city's financial interests," Newsom said in a prepared statement.

Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, Councilwoman Janice Hahn, Newsom's challenger in the
November race for the state's lieutenant governor, said she will introduce a
resolution calling on the city of Los Angeles to boycott the state of Arizona.

Supervisor David Campos also introduced emergency legislation at Tuesday's board
meeting calling for a citywide boycott of the state and Arizona-based businesses
because the law "will inevitably lead to racial profiling," the resolution
reads.

The controversial Arizona law makes it a state crime to be in the country
illegally and requires police officers to question, "when practicable," those
they "reasonably suspect" are illegal immigrants.

Under the new law, even lawful foreign residents would be committing a crime by
failing to carry immigration documents, and it would be illegal to stop on a
public street to negotiate the hire of day laborers.

In order to work out details regarding the extent of such a boycott, Newsom
announced the formation of the Arizona Boycott Workgroup, which brings together
the city controller, purchaser and treasurer along with members of the city
attorney's office, among others.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Bill to honor Korematsu advances

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 311 words


SACRAMENTO   California lawmakers united on Thursday to honor a man who
challenged the World War II internment of Japanese-Americans but not without
partisan bickering over the new Arizona immigration law.

The state Assembly unanimously passed a bill designating Jan. 30 as Fred
Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution in California.

The measure, AB1775, encourages California schools to spend the day recognizing
Korematsu's accomplishments and the importance of preserving civil liberties.

Korematsu, who died in 2005, was arrested in Oakland in 1942 after refusing to
enter an internment camp.

His case led the U.S. Supreme Court to examine the legality of President
Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066, which authorized the
internment of 120,000 Japanese-Americans and resident aliens.

In 1944, the high court ruled against Korematsu, saying that the need to protect
against espionage outweighed his rights.

Forty years later, a federal court judge in San Francisco formally vacated
Korematsu's conviction, and in 1998 President Bill Clinton presented him with
the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian award.

Korematsu's daughter, Karen Korematsu-Haigh, of San Rafael, said in an e-mail
message that she was proud to hear of the unanimous Assembly vote. She said she
hoped for similar support from the state Senate, so that "my father's legacy
will continue and the lessons of history will never be forgotten."

Several Democratic lawmakers on Thursday said AB1775 was a reminder of the need
to defy injustices, and they invoked the Arizona law as an example. The law
makes the failure to carry immigration documents a crime and gives the police
the authority to detain anyone suspected of being in the country illegally.

Republicans said tying the Arizona law to the internment of Japanese-Americans
was political posturing.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Bill would honor World War II internment challenger from East Bay

BYLINE: By Robin Hindery Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 569 words


SACRAMENTO   California lawmakers united today to honor a man who challenged the
World War II internment of Japanese-Americans, but not without partisan
bickering over the new Arizona immigration law.

The state Assembly unanimously passed a bill designating Jan. 30 as Fred
Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution in California. The
measure, AB1775, encourages California schools to spend the day recognizing
Korematsu's accomplishments and the importance of preserving civil liberties.

Korematsu, who died in 2005, was arrested in Oakland in 1942 after refusing to
enter an internment camp. His case led the U.S. Supreme Court to examine the
legality of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066, which
authorized the internment of 120,000 Japanese-Americans and resident aliens.

In 1944, the high court ruled against Korematsu, saying that the need to protect
against espionage outweighed his rights. Forty years later, a federal court
judge in San Francisco formally vacated Korematsu's conviction.

"We have made great progress in the areas of civil rights and equality, but we
are constantly challenged to uphold these ideals," said the bill's co-author,
Mary Hayashi, D-Hayward. "When these trials come, we are able to be inspired by
the courage" of people like Korematsu.

Korematsu, who lived in San Leandro for many years, died in 2005. He was buried
in Oakland.

Several Democratic lawmakers today said AB1775 was a reminder of the need to
defy injustices, and they invoked the Arizona law as an example. The law makes
the failure to carry immigration documents a crime and gives the police the
authority to detain anyone suspected of being in the country illegally.

Assemblyman Warren Furutani, the bill's author and a fourth-generation
Japanese-American, said he sees similarities between what happened in the 1940s
and the current situation in Arizona.

"When you can be stopped because of the color of your skin, because people want
to check your immigration status   that should not happen in America," the
Lakewood Democrat said. "We should not have to walk around wearing no stinking
badges proving we are where we belong."

Republicans said tying the Arizona law to the internment of Japanese-Americans
was political posturing.

"The Arizona law simply restated the current federal law on immigration," said
Assemblyman Chuck DeVore of Irvine, who is vying for the Republican nomination
next month for Barbara Boxer's U.S. Senate seat. "This bill seeks to honor a
U.S. citizen who fought against an injustice, and somehow comparing that to
Arizona I find nonsensical and beneath the sentiments expressed by this
resolution."

Democrat Sandre Swanson, of Alameda, defended the comparison.

"Each generation has a responsibility to address injustice, and sometimes it's
hard to recognize injustice when it's right in front of us," he said. "That's
why Arizona was raised."

California was home to two of the 10 World War II relocation centers   Tule Lake
and Manzanar. Tule Lake, the country's largest camp, held more than 24,000
internees, and was named a national monument in 2008. Manzanar held about 11,000
and has been designated a national historic site.

The legislation now goes to the state Senate. It is one of two bills in the
Legislature this year seeking to grant a special day of recognition to
Californians. The other would honor Ronald Reagan, the former president and
governor.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday

Opinion: Victor Davis Hanson: If at first you don't succeed, cry 'racism'

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 657 words


Anti-Hispanic, anti-gay, anti-Muslim, anti-black -- it is hard to keep track of
all the recent charges of alleged bigotry.

State representatives in Arizona overwhelmingly passed an immigration law to
popular acclaim -- which the Obama administration for now has successfully
blocked in federal court. Arizonans simply wanted the federal government to
enforce its own laws. And yet they were quickly dubbed bigots and racists --
more worried about profiling Hispanics than curtailing illegal immigration.

In California, a federal judge has just overturned Proposition 8, ensuring
traditional marriage. Voters in November 2008 had amended the California
Constitution to recognize marriage only between a man and woman, while allowing
civil unions between partners of the same sex.

Californians took that step in response to the state Supreme Court's voiding of
Proposition 22, a similar referendum on traditional marriage that California
voters passed in 2000. Apparently, a stubborn majority of Californians still
sees traditional marriage as it has been followed in some 2,500 years of Western
custom and practice. In contrast, gay groups have framed the issue as one of
civil rights, often charging prejudice on the part of their opponents.

Another controversy is brewing a mere 600 feet from ground zero in lower
Manhattan, site of the Sept. 11 attacks, where a Muslim group wishes to build a
$100 million, 13-story mosque. Opponents feel this is hardly a way to build
bridges across religious divides, but instead a provocative act that tarnishes
the memory of the nearly 3,000 people who died at the hands of radical Islamic
terrorists.

New York state residents poll in opposition to the project. Their unease
reflects legitimate questions over the nature of the foreign funding for the
project, and the disturbing writings and statements of the chief proponent of
the plan, Feisal Abdul Rauf.

In response, once again the majority has been dubbed bigoted and prejudiced,
this time against Muslims for asking for a more appropriate location, farther
away from Ground Zero.

After lengthy investigation, Rep. Charles Rangel, former chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, is facing charges of unethical conduct. In response,
Rangel has scoffed that a plea bargain offer was nothing more than an "English,
Anglo-Saxon procedure." The inference was that ongoing prejudice, not moral
lapses, caused Rangel's problems.

Rangel's charges come at a time when Rep. Maxine Waters faces ethics questions
for allegedly using her office to steer federal money to a bank that was
associated with her husband. And since eight members of the Congressional Black
Caucus have recently faced ethics inquiries, we are hearing that race, not
unethical conduct, is the real reason for the investigations.

These diverse cases offer some lessons.

One, legitimate public concerns can be reduced to religious, ethnic or racial
prejudice in hopes that the debate will hinge on supposedly bad motives rather
than convincing arguments.

Two, in most of these cases, the majority is opposed by a variety of activist
groups, government officials and judges. The charge of bigotry is usually
expressed in terms of a sophisticated liberal-thinking elite reining in the
emotional and illogical unwashed masses.

Three, these cry-wolf tactics are now stale. A real danger is that when
legitimate charges of prejudice are leveled in the future, most will shrug and
ignore them.

We live in a complex, multiracial and religiously diverse society. In other
words, there is no simple ideological, racial or religious divide between a
monolithic "us" and "them." Instead, we have devolved to the point where
promiscuously crying "Bigot!" and "Racist!" signals a failure to convince 51
percent of the people of the merits of an argument.

It is too often that simple -- and that sad.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a syndicated columnist affiliated with the Hoover
Institution at Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday

Opinion: Navarrette: Guess who is back in the arena?

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 443 words


One of Theodore Roosevelt's most memorable speeches praised "the man who is
actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who
strives valiantly ... who spends himself in a worthy cause."

The person who deserves even more praise is the one who climbs into the arena to
take on a fight that doesn't impact him directly but who engages it anyway
because it's the right thing to do.

Alfredo Gutierrez has spent a lifetime in the arena, and now he's there again
trying to slay Arizona's monstrous immigration law.

Gutierrez was born in Arizona and has spent a good part of his adult life in
public service, so some would say this isn't his fight. He could take a walk and
leave illegal immigrants to the tender mercies of publicity-hungry types such as
Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, state Sen. Russell Pearce and Gov. Jan
Brewer.

Instead, now in his mid-60s, Gutierrez has opened a new chapter. He founded a
Spanish-language news website that seeks to hold elected officials accountable,
hosts Spanish-language radio shows, and goes on cable TV to debate proponents of
the law. At the grass roots, he also helps organize protests against the measure
-- and at one rally got arrested.

Those who back the immigration law insist that it is meant to secure the border,
combat illegal entry into the country, and do a job that the federal government
won't do.

But Gutierrez isn't buying it. The former majority leader of the Arizona Senate
knows better, and he's seen too much in an extraordinary life that has now come
full circle.

"The real concern for many of these people is the magnitude of our presence,"
Gutierrez told me. "It's about all of us, getting us the heck out of here."

An activist in the 1960s before he turned to politics, Gutierrez rose quickly
through the legislative ranks to become one of the most powerful people in the
state.

After leaving office, he launched a lucrative consulting business and earned a
reputation as a high-priced "fixer" -- the kind of person a corporation might
hire to help it navigate political waters.

Now, Gutierrez is an activist again, and it's hard to find a bigger thorn in the
sides of Republican lawmakers who passed the law or the Republican sheriff who
is eagerly enforcing it.

"It's easier to choose ignorance," Gutierrez said. "People don't want to know
what's really going on. Knowing comes with responsibilities to take action."

Alfredo Gutierrez shouldn't have to stand alone in the arena. Thousands of his
fellow Mexican-Americans should be right next to him. This is their fight too,
whether they realize it or not. And if they turn their heads and go on their
way, then shame on them.



LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


ARIZONA

Donations pour in to help defend immigration law

Retirees and other residents from all over the country were among those who
donated nearly $500,000 to help Arizona defend its immigration enforcement law,
with most chipping in $100 or less, according to an analysis of documents
obtained Thursday by The Associated Press.

The donations, 88 percent of which came through the defense fund's website,
surged this week after the federal government to challenge the law. A document
from Gov. Jan Brewer's office showed that 7,008 of the 9,057 contributions
submitted by Thursday were made in the days after the government's filing.

new mexico

Dad accused of showing son how to build bomb

A man accused of teaching his 6-year-old son how to build explosives has been
arrested and charged with child abuse.

Anthony Stromberg, 44, was being held Thursday in the Las Cruces jail on
$150,000 bond. He faces one charge of intentionally caused child abuse.

Las Cruces detectives said Stromberg gave his son detailed lessons on how to
build explosives and that the boy went to the desert several times with his
father to blow up explosives.

Washington, D.C.

Pentagon's cybercenter embeds secret code

Is it cool, or is it nerdy? You decide.

The Pentagon's new U.S. Cyber Command has embedded a 32-character string of
secret code in its logo, causing a stir among bloggers and curious techies eager
to decipher the veiled message.

The military command was launched in late May to help centralize Defense
Department efforts to protect its computer networks, which are under constant
threat from attackers.

A Cyber Command spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. Steve Curry, said Thursday that including
32 letters and numbers in the organization's official seal was the idea of a
female contractor who designed the logo.

Wired.com 's Danger Room last week offered a T-shirt or ticket to the
International Spy Museum to the first person to crack the code, which is:
9ec4c129 49a4f31474f299058ce2b22a.

Curry said the characters, once decoded, represent the command's
bureaucratic-sounding mission statement.

From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2009 Saturday

Santa Clara County's lucrative jail business takes a hit

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 1185 words


The thought of Santa Clara County building a prison in the heart of San Jose to
house hundreds of state and federal prisoners and immigration detainees would
never fly politically.

Not in a million years.

But in a way such a prison already exists   hidden from public view inside the
county's Main Jail complex north of downtown.

In the last fiscal year, the federal and state governments paid cash-hungry
Santa Clara County more than $10 million for incarcerating their prisoners,
including illegal and legal immigrants from across Northern California under
deportation orders. Until recently, Santa Clara County housed more immigrant
detainees than any other county in the state except Los Angeles. And it's a
revenue stream that even many liberal, pro-immigration officials are not
interested in giving up.

But now county officials are worried that the cash cow is beginning to run dry
as the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency sends fewer and fewer
inmates here. To save money, the feds are looking for cheaper housing options
and they found one at the Yuba County Jail.

In addition to federal prisoners, Santa Clara County takes in state prisoners,
as well as a handful of prisoners from other California counties. The number of
state prisoners is up over last year, but not nearly enough to make up for the
steep drop in ICE inmates.

And that's bad news for a county already reeling from budget cuts.

So how did these so-called revenue-generating prisoners end up here in the first
place?

One reason is that Santa Clara County has one of the largest, best-run jails in
the state. Through such techniques as drug diversion programs and alternative
sentencing, the county has done a great job of keeping nonviolent offenders from
clogging up its jails   unlike the state of California, which is under court
order to relieve its overcrowded prisons.

And that means there's room at the inn.

Surprisingly, even the ICE contract has generated little political controversy
in a city and county where law enforcement has policies against cooperating
fully with ICE when it comes to enforcing immigration laws. But that's not to
say that elected officials are blind to the irony of the county making millions
housing and feeding immigrants in custody.

"We're the county of Cesar Chavez with the values of Dr. Martin Luther King and
Gandhi   the county with the most diversity,'' said Supervisor David Cortese, a
former San Jose city councilman.

"Yes,'' added Gary Graves, the county's chief operating officer, "there have
been some questions from individual board members over the years,'' but the
revenue-generating inmates "have become woven into the fabric of how we
function. It's how we fund the jail.''

A management audit earlier this year by Harvey M. Rose Associates showed the
county could save $2.75 million in expenses annually if it no longer housed
federal and state prisoners. But it would have lost $13.8 million in revenue in
the last fiscal year. Annual net benefit to the county: $11.1 million,
representing nearly 6 percent of the corrections budget.

Figures released by ICE on Friday show that Yuba County in the fiscal year
ending Sept. 30 received more ICE reimbursements than Santa Clara County   $4.9
million compared with $4.6 million. The year before, Santa Clara had received
almost twice as much as Yuba, located in the Central Valley north of Sacramento.

Technically, the jailed immigrants are called "detainees.'' In actuality,
they're treated virtually the same as the rest of the prisoners.

Same orange jumpsuit. Same food. Same cells.

"It was hell,'' said Hassan Abpikar of San Jose, a 49-year-old native of Iran
who was released a month ago after spending 16 months in ICE custody, mostly in
the Santa Clara County Jail, for alleged immigration violations. "You're in a
room with 24 people with two toilets and absolutely no privacy. I cried myself
to sleep every night.''

For Abpikar, it was more hellish than most. One night last summer, he was
knocked unconsciousness and hospitalized when a fellow inmate pummeled his head
while Abpikar was doing some nighttime reading to prepare for a court
appearance. The alleged assailant, an accused bank robber, wasn't a traditional
county inmate, either. He was a revenue-generating inmate of the U.S. Marshals
Service   which has long contracted with the county to house its prisoners.

Edward Flores, who has been chief of the Department of Correction  for more than
five years, acknowledged that housing federal and state prisoners makes running
the 15th-largest county jail in the country, with an average inmate population
of 4,500, even more complex.

"To be quite honest I'd prefer to not have federal and state prisoners and
inmates from other counties,'' he said. But he and other county officials
emphasize that the revenue-generating inmates   who in March accounted for
nearly 10 percent of the jail population   have become an economic necessity in
a world of tight county budgets.

The county, Graves said, went into the rent-a-bed business six years ago when
then-chief James Babcock got creative and found a way to avoid severe cuts in
the department's budget after the economy soured because of the dot-com crash
and Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The county had briefly experimented with housing immigration detainees in the
late 1990s, but nixed the plan after the liberal board majority grew uneasy. But
in 2004 Babcock resurrected that idea and took it even further by also housing
more state prisoners in an in-custody drug treatment program. Those prisoners
now live at the county's Elmwood jail in Milpitas.

"At the time 9/11 was still on everybody's mind,'' Flores said, helping to
explain why few at the time questioned the idea of incarcerating ICE prisoners.
"These were Homeland Security prisoners.''

As the idea steamrolled, the county became addicted to the additional cash.

But now a big part of that revenue source is going to Yuba County.

The reason: It's cheaper. Yuba County charges $71 a night for ICE prisoners;
Santa Clara County charges $103.

A year ago, the Santa Clara County Jail had about 150 ICE inmates. On Friday it
had 59.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said the agency has "an obligation to use
taxpayers' money in the most efficient way possible.''

Santa Clara County's budget gurus didn't foresee the trend. In June they
budgeted $10.3 million in revenue for ICE and other federal inmates because the
ICE business at the time was booming. They now expect to fall at least $1
million short   and probably much more.

That could lead to some painful cuts. When the county does its next budget
review in February, Graves said, the loss in jail revenue will just be the
latest in a litany of fiscal horrors.

In the last round of budget cuts, the county had to slash into alcohol and drug
treatment programs.

"We have so few options,'' Graves said.

The supervisors had hoped to avoid any further cuts to such programs, knowing
that they would only result in more drug addicts and alcoholics ending up in the
county jail.

And the feds wouldn't be picking up the tab to jail them.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Iranian immigrant Hassan Abpikar, a San Jose immigrant, spent 16 months
in the jail as an immigration detainee.
Iranian immigrant Hassan Abpikar, a San Jose immigrant, spent 16 months in the
jail as an immigration detainee. He was severely beat up by an accused armed
robber while in custody at Santa Clara County jail. (Dai Sugano/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

Immigration agents raid Arizona van shuttle businesses

BYLINE: By Bob Christie and Jacques Billeaud Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 313 words


PHOENIX   Federal agents arrested nearly 50 shuttle operators and smugglers
Thursday accused of using vans to transport thousands of illegal immigrants from
the Mexican border to Phoenix in what was billed as one of the government's
largest-ever human smuggling busts.

Investigators said the operators of four shuttle services in Tucson and a fifth
in Phoenix created their businesses solely to help immigrant smugglers move
their customers to Phoenix under a veil of legitimacy. The shuttle operators are
accused of giving illegal immigrants fraudulent receipts to make the trips look
legitimate and coaching them on what to say if the vans were pulled over by
police.

"They are in knee-deep. They know exactly what's going on," said John Morton,
assistant secretary of Homeland Security for U.S. Customs and Immigration
Enforcement.

Arrests were made in Phoenix, Tucson and two other Arizona towns along the
border, Nogales and Rio Rico. Investigators also made arrests in Tennessee, and
Mexican authorities detained people in the border state of Sonora. In all, 47
people were in custody, including the leaders of three smuggling operations.

More than 800 agents from nine law enforcement agencies were involved in the
bust. Dozens of agents in Phoenix   some wearing black hoods over their faces
swarmed a shuttle business early Thursday in a strip mall in a heavily Latino
neighborhood.

No one answered phone calls at two of the accused shuttle businesses, Sergio's
Shuttle in Phoenix and Saguaro Roadrunner Shuttles in Tucson.

There were no Tucson phone listings for the other three accused shuttle
services.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement touted the bust as the largest human
smuggling case in the agency's seven-year history.

Arizona is on the verge of approving a sweeping anti-immigration law that would
make it a crime under state law to be in the country illegally.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Teen shot by Border Patrol had smuggling arrests

BYLINE: By Alicia A. Caldwell Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 323 words


EL PASO, Texas   A 15-year-old Mexican shot and killed by a U.S. Border Patrol
agent was among El Paso's most wanted juvenile immigrant smugglers, according to
federal arrest records reviewed by The Associated Press.

The records show that Sergio Adrian Hernandez Huereca had been arrested at least
four times since 2008 and twice in the same week in February 2009 on suspicion
of smuggling illegal immigrants across the U.S.-Mexico border.

Hernandez was repeatedly arrested along the U.S. side of the border near
downtown El Paso, not far from where he was killed, but was never charged with a
crime by federal prosecutors.

A Border Patrol agent shot and killed Hernandez on June 7 while trying to arrest
illegal immigrants crossing the muddy bed of the Rio Grande. Some witnesses said
a group of people on the Mexican side were throwing rocks at the agents.

Agents are generally permitted to use lethal force against rock throwers.

The records show that in at least one case Hernandez was to be paid $50 a person
for smuggling four people into the United States.

The records also show that in one case, federal prosecutors declined to charge
Hernandez because there were no "extenuating circumstances or endangerment."

Daryl Fields, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in San Antonio, said he
could "neither confirm nor deny that information."

Border Patrol officials have declined to comment on his criminal record, citing
an FBI investigation into whether the shooting was justified under Border Patrol
rules and whether the agent, who remains unidentified, violated Hernandez's
civil rights.

Mexican authorities have called the killing a murder, and some demanded that the
agent be extradited to Mexico to face criminal charges. U.S. officials have said
that is highly unlikely.

A federal official familiar with the investigation said Friday that there is
evidence that Hernandez was throwing rocks at the agent at the time of the
shooting.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday

Senate approves $600 million for border security

BYLINE: By Jim Abrams Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 515 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate agreed todayto add $600 million to the effort to stop
the flow of illegal immigrants across the U.S. Mexican border.

The money would be used for such purposes as adding 1,500 new enforcement agents
and deploying unmanned aerial drones to improve border surveillance.

The voice vote to pass the emergency spending came in the final hours before the
Senate leaves for its monthlong summer break. Its sponsor, Democratic Sen.
Charles Schumer of New York, said it would boost border spending 10 percent
above 2010 levels.

President Barack Obama has urged Congress to come up with $600 million to
reinforce border security, and, with Arizona's attempt to crack down on
undocumented immigrants bringing national focus to the issue, both Republicans
and Democrats have endorsed more robust border security spending.

The main stumbling block has been how to pay for the increased spending.
Republicans sought to use unspent funds from the economic stimulus act, an idea
rejected by Democrats.

The Democratic plan passed todaywould boost fees assessed on foreign-based
personnel companies that take advantage of U.S. visa programs, such as the H-1B
visa program for temporary skilled workers, to bring foreign workers, mainly
from India, into the United States.

The House last week passed similar legislation with $701 million in emergency
money for border security. It could take up the Senate bill when it interrupts
its August recess next Tuesday for a one-day session to approve a Senate-passed
jobs bill.

Schumer, who announced his proposal earlier Thursday with Sen. Claire McCaskill,
D-Mo., challenged Republicans to put aside differences and support the measure.
"It's a test of people's seriousness when it comes to the border," he said.

Sen. John McCain, who last week joined fellow Arizona Republican Jon Kyl in
introducing a $701 million bill, initially objected, saying it was insufficient.

He suggested, among other things, the addition of $200 million to support
Operation Streamline, a program begun under the George W. Bush administration
subjecting anyone who crosses the border illegally in areas where the program is
in place to federal charges with prison terms of up to six months for the first
illegal entry. Those who re-enter face prosecution for felonies punishable by up
to 20 years in prison.

When Schumer said he could not accept McCain's amendments, McCain agreed to back
the bill. "I believe we have a lot more to do, but this will contribute to our
effort to get our border secured," he said.

The legislation includes $176 million for 1,000 new border patrol agents to form
a strike force to be deployed at critical areas, $89 million for another 500
customs and immigration personnel and $32 million to deploy unmanned aerial
vehicles or drones.

It provides an additional $196 million for the Justice Department to bolster its
forces of U.S. marshals, and FBI, DEA and ATF agents along the border.

"Now our attention must turn to comprehensive reform, which is the only way to
fully address the problem of illegal immigration," Schumer said after the vote.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Bay Area labor unions object to 'silent' immigration raids

BYLINE: By Paul T. Rosynsky Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 401 words


OAKLAND -- Bay Area labor unions demanded Wednesday that the Obama
administration stop its increased practice of auditing business payrolls to
check for illegal immigrant workers.

Using Berkeley-based Pacific Steel and Casting as an example, leaders from
several unions said the Immigration and Customs Enforcement is wreaking havoc
with immigrant families and local economies by demanding that employers provide
it information about its employees.

Known as I-9 audits, investigators check the legal status of employees through
the Social Security numbers and green card information the employees supplied to
the business when hired. In many cases of illegal immigrants, that documentation
is forged and the I-9 audits can determine who at a workplace is living and
working in the country illegally.

ICE drastically increased its use of I-9 audits in 2009 when 1,444 businesses
were audited, almost tripling the number audited in 2008, the New York Times
reported this week. In 2010, the government audited 2,196 businesses.

Although the audits, in many cases, do not lead to the deportation of a worker,
they do force an employer to fire the worker, harming the company, the worker
and the economy, labor leaders said.

"These are silent raids," said Oakland Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente, who also
is the vice president of the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics, and Allied
Workers International Union. "We know that this country was built by immigrants.
These workers should have some rights."

Even employers are not pleased with the audits; many have said they disrupt
production and, in some cases, force out key workers who have become valuable to
the organization.

"It's terribly disruptive," said Elisabeth Jewel, a spokeswoman for Pacific
Steel and Casting. "We have highly trained employees and to lose them is very
damaging."

Pacific Steel and Casting was first notified that it was to be audited in late
February when ICE sent a letter seeking information on the steel foundry's 550
employees. The company complied but has yet to hear back from the government.

In the meantime, the Alameda County Labor Council began lobbying local
politicians to object to the increase I-9 raids. The group successfully won
resolutions from the Berkeley and Oakland city councils that condemn the audits.

De La Fuente said he expects that 100 to 200 employees at Pacific Steel could
lose their jobs as a result of the audit.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 18, 2011 Thursday

Opinion: Next wave of illegal immigration will be from China

BYLINE: By Dudley L. Poston, Jr. and Peter A. Morrison Special to the Mercury
News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 653 words


Until now, Mexico has supplied the United States, especially California and
Texas, with immigrant workers to fill low-wage jobs. That's about to change, in
the wake of an unprecedented decline in Mexican immigration and a new influx of
Chinese immigrant workers who will be fleeing hopeless conditions in China. Many
of them will enter the U.S. undocumented.

These developments will cast in sharp relief the inherent contradictions in the
practices comprising our current immigration "policy." These immigrants from
China will likely galvanize support from millions of Chinese-Americans to
rationalize the policy once and for all.

Mexican immigration -- legal and undocumented -- now stands at an all-time low
and may have even stopped. "For the first time in 60 years, the net traffic has
gone to zero and is probably a little bit negative," according to Princeton's
Douglas Massey, who co-directs the Mexican Migration Project.

In China, meanwhile, an economy demanding urban manpower has precipitated what
surely ranks as the largest peacetime migration in recorded human history. Since
the early 1990s, millions of rural agricultural workers -- men and women -- have
moved to jobs in the burgeoning cities on China's east coast, filling mostly
low-level construction, manufacturing, and household service jobs. They number
nearly 220 million, almost half of China's entire urban population.

Most rural Chinese move within China without official permission, as temporary
urban workers known as "floaters." They are supposed to "float" back home
eventually, but most don't. Instead, they join China's unofficial and fiercely
competitive low-wage urban labor markets, often filling jobs that permanent
urban residents shun.

Urban unemployment in China, now at an all-time high, has turned the floaters'
world upside down. About 20 million floaters are unemployed (being typically
first fired) and no longer can send money home. Unwilling to return home
penniless and lose face, they also find themselves with little or no prospect of
any livelihood in Chinese cities. Their only realistic option is to seek their
fortunes abroad, reminiscent of their predecessors who sought their fortunes in
California starting in the 1840s.

The Chinese in the U.S. today form a potent interest group of more than 3.3
million Chinese-Americans nationwide and nearly 1.3 million in California. The
San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland metropolitan region alone is home to 562,000
Chinese-Americans, second only to greater New York.

We estimate that about 50 million floaters eventually will emigrate from China,
many illegally, and that ties will draw several million of them to
Chinese-American enclaves in the U.S.

We have, in Massey's words, "the seeds of an enormous ... flow of immigrants (to
the United States) that would dwarf levels of migration now observed from
Mexico." Those seeds today lie dormant, pending a stronger U.S. job market.

What does this shift of human resources portend? Opponents of immigration --
including, understandably, jobless American workers -- may not welcome more
foreign newcomers. Nevertheless, established immigration networks anchored by
long-standing family ties to particular destinations in California, New York,
Texas and other states will facilitate their arrival, surreptitiously or
otherwise.

Most Chinese immigrants will be of prime working age, and their paychecks could
well fortify the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. They will be another
welcome measure of human ambition from Asia.

But the question is: Can we, a nation of immigrants, welcome them as "family"?

DUDLEY L. POSTON JR., a graduate of the University of San Francisco and San
Francisco State University, is director of the Asian Studies Program at Texas
A&M University. PETER A. MORRISON is an applied demographer and president of
Morrison and Associates, based in Nantucket, Massachusetts. They wrote this for
this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A protester is detained by police officers during a protest against
China's Vice Premier Li Keqiang near the new government headquarters where Li
attended its completion ceremony in Hong Kong Thursday, Aug. 18, 2011. Li, who
is widely expected to become China's next premier, announced measures to boost
Hong Kong's economy in a show of support for the Chinese territory's government
as it struggles with public discontent over surging property prices and growing
inequality. (AP Photo/Vincent Yu)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday

Roundup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 616 words


San Bernardino

UC Berkeley student arrested at protest

A UC Berkeley student senator and six other illegal immigrant students were
arrested Tuesday after they blocked a city street during an immigration rally.

Political science student Ju Hong, 21, a graduate of Alameda High School, had
traveled to San Bernardino Valley College for the rally. College officials said
the event went smoothly until the protesters left campus and interrupted traffic
on a multilane thoroughfare adjacent to the campus.

Friends are worried the arrest could trigger Hong's deportation. The federal
Secure Communities program, which has been implemented throughout California,
requires the fingerprints of anyone booked in a county jail be sent to a federal
database monitored by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Hong has lived in the East Bay since his family brought him here on a tourist
visa from South Korea when he was 11.

The seven are charged with unlawful assembly and failure to disperse, said San
Bernardino police Lt. Gwendolyn Brooks. She said it is up to the sheriff's
department and immigration agents to decide if they pursue the students for
immigration violations.

-- Matt O'Brien

Marin County

Porn empire's heir convicted of murder

Reaching a verdict on the two-year anniversary of the crime, a Marin County jury
convicted James Mitchell of murdering his ex-girlfriend with a softball bat and
kidnapping their infant child from under the victim's body.

The jury deliberated a little more than a day before convicting Mitchell, 29, of
first-degree murder, domestic corporal injury, kidnapping, child abduction,
child endangerment and stalking.

He will first have to serve a nine-year sentence for the kidnapping before
commencing a sentence of 26 years-to-life for the murder.

Sentencing is set for Aug. 16.

The jury returned the verdict nearly two years to the hour after the murder of
Danielle Keller, 29, who was clubbed to death in the yard of her Novato
apartment.

Prosecutors said Mitchell drove from his home in Pittsburg to Keller's apartment
with the intention to kill her, calling her phone 14 times along the way.

Mitchell, an heir to the Mitchell Brothers adult entertainment fortune, is the
son of Jim Mitchell and the nephew of Artie Mitchell. Jim Mitchell killed Artie
Mitchell in 1991 and served a manslaughter sentence at San Quentin State Prison.
He died July 12, 2007.

-- Marin Independent Journal

San Francisco

Rally for man arrested in flap over saggy pants

Dozens of people gathered Tuesday outside San Francisco City Hall to rally in
support of a college football player who was arrested last month for refusing to
pull up his saggy pants on an airplane.

The San Mateo County district attorney has decided not to file charges against
DeShon Marman, ABC7 News reported Tuesday.

Many protesters said they believe Marman was discriminated against. US Airways
had allowed another man -- wearing skimpy women's panties and mid-thigh
stockings -- to fly on a cross-country flight six days earlier.

-- Associated Press

Washington

Fiorina to help raise cash for GOP candidates

Former Hewlett-Packard CEO and U.S. Senate candidate Carly Fiorina is taking on
a new role by raising money for Republicans running for the Senate.

The National Republican Senatorial Committee announced Tuesday that Fiorina has
been named vice chairwoman for the 2012 election cycle.

Fundraising will be her chief focus.

Fiorina fell short in her own attempt at a Senate seat from California last
year, losing to Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer.

Fiorina and the committee's chairman, Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, had a good
working relationship during the campaign. National Republicans also invested
heavily in the race.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday

UC Berkeley student senator released after arrest at immigration rally

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 318 words


A UC Berkeley student senator and six other illegal immigrant students arrested
at a San Bernardino rally Tuesday were released from custody early Wednesday
without triggering a hold from Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Friends were concerned the arrest of Cal political science student Ju Hong, 21,
a graduate of Alameda High School, would trigger his deportation. Hong has lived
in the East Bay since his family brought him here on a tourist visa from South
Korea when he was 11.

Through the federal Secure Communities program, which has been implemented in
all of California's counties, anyone arrested and booked in a county jail gets
fingerprints sent to a federal database monitored by ICE agents.

ICE agents interviewed the students, but did not file detainers against them,
ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said in an emailed statement.

"ICE is focused on sensible, effective immigration enforcement that focuses
first on criminal aliens and others who pose a threat to public safety," Kice
said.

Hong had traveled to San Bernardino Valley College on Tuesday for a "coming out"
rally for undocumented students from across the state to share their stories.

College officials said the rally went smoothly until the protesters left the
campus grounds and interrupted traffic on Mt. Vernon Avenue, a multilane
thoroughfare adjacent to the campus.

"Ju's been very vocal about his immigration status. He just really wanted to
share his story," friend Yong Eo said Tuesday.

The seven students were charged with unlawful assembly and failure to disperse
for blocking an "extremely busy street" and refusing to leave, said San
Bernardino police Lt. Gwendolyn Brooks. Theï¿ other arrested students attended
Pasadena City College, Los Angeles Harbor College, Cal State San Bernardino and
East Los Angeles College, said protester Javier Hernandez.

"They stood tall when they were arrested," he said. "They knew the risks."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 30, 2009 Monday

Health insurance overhaul to exclude illegal residents

BYLINE: By Yessenia Alvarez and Amelia Ahlgren California News Service

SECTION: POLITICS; Health; News; National

LENGTH: 775 words


No matter what health care bill emerges from Congress, roughly one in six
uninsured Californians will be excluded because they are not legal residents.

President Barack Obama refers to the plan as "comprehensive health insurance
reform," though essentially none of its provisions are likely to be available to
the nation's estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants, a group that
typically receives no insurance at work and lacks the means to buy it on their
own.

That means tens of thousands living in the San Jose area will remain without
insurance whether or not the Senate ultimately passes a bill and no matter how
generous the subsidies for the poor or punitive the penalties for those who
refuse.

"It will be out of the reach of many Americans. " That is not comprehensive,"
said Jennifer Ng'andu, deputy director of the Health Policy Project at the
National Council of La Raza.

Santa Clara County has roughly 70,000 undocumented immigrants who currently
receive millions of dollars worth of health care -- but that care is paid for by
taxpayers and often provided in local emergency rooms.

Still, many conservatives argue that providing health care for those not legally
in the country is both unaffordable and unfair.

"It shouldn't encourage future immigration or help out those who are here
illegally now," said Dustin Carnevale, a spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform (FAIR), a Washington-based group that advocates
restricted immigration.

FAIR estimates that U.S. taxpayers already spend $11 billion a year on health
care for illegal immigrants, and that the cost would rise to $30 billion if they
are offered the same subsidies as citizens in the health care bill.

Such concerns have prompted some Democrats with a long record of supporting
immigrant rights, including Obama, to go out of their way to point out that
undocumented immigrants are not included in the current legislation.

However, their exclusion may have some unintended consequences.

It means that a pool consisting of millions of potential customers who are
typically younger and healthier than the general population will be kept out of
the insurance exchanges. If undocumented immigrants were allowed to enter the
exchanges and receive health insurance, it would "reduce health care costs'' for
other participants, Ng'andu said.

Undocumented immigrants will continue to use emergency rooms, which cannot turn
away patients based on their immigration status, as their first line of medical
treatment, a practice that cost California hospitals an estimated $1.2 billion
last year, according to the state Department of Health Care Services.

Nearly 7 million California residents lack health insurance. Of that number,
more than 1 million are not legal residents, according the UCLA Center for
Health Policy Research.

Both bills now before Congress -- the one passed by the House earlier this month
and the one currently before the Senate -- explicitly exclude undocumented
immigrants from receiving benefits.

Both bills forbid anyone without legal immigration status from receiving a
government subsidy, which are intended for those too poor to buy their own
insurance. The Senate bill goes further, saying that they cannot participate in
the measure's insurance exchanges. That means that even undocumented immigrants
who buy their own insurance will not be able to purchase the least expensive
policies.

"Disease and illnesses do not discriminate based on immigration status," Rep.
Mike Honda, D-Campbell, and several other Democrats wrote in an open letter to
congressional leaders, seeking to have such provisions eliminated. "It is not
rational to exclude individuals who are willing and able to share in the
responsibility of paying into the system. There are also public health
implications when a large portion of the U.S. population has severely limited
access to health care coverage."

Yet with the measure's outcome resting on the votes of a handful of Democrats
from swing states and districts, any changes to the immigration clauses are
likely to make the bills even more restrictive.

Some Republicans have pushed for tighter verification procedures in the health
care bill to make certain that those who do not qualify for the government
subsidies do not receive them. Democrats have resisted.

It was anger over that issue that prompted U.S. Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., to yell
"You lie!'' at Obama as the president addressed a joint session of Congress in
September.

The California News Service is a journalism project of the University of
California's Washington Center and the UC-Berkeley Graduate School of
Journalism. Contact the CNS at cns@ucdc.edu

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday

Navarrette: It's wrong to enable border crossers

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 699 words


Want to cross into the United States illegally while keeping track of the
location of the nearest water station and the distance to your final
destination?

There's an app for that.

I have mixed feelings. I would generally approve of instruments that help people
survive dangerous situations. But when those people are illegal immigrants who
brought their plight upon themselves by opting to enter the United States
through a back door, I become less sympathetic. In fact, I become suspicious and
I begin to question whether the makers of the gadget retrofitted with GPS
technology are encouraging unlawful activity.

The device is the brainchild of Ricardo Dominguez, a professor of new media at
the University of California-San Diego, who developed the idea along with fellow
researchers at the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information
Technology. Dominguez calls himself an "artivist"   part artist, part activist
and he describes his invention as a humanitarian tool, not a political one. He
says that it is meant to save lives and not to promote illegal crossings.

This argument would be more convincing if the phones weren't encrypted to avoid
electronic detection by the Border Patrol.

Dominguez, who plans to distribute the phones to would-be border crossers
through church groups and immigrant-advocacy organizations, insists he's doing
nothing wrong. But he has also described himself as engaged in "civil
disobedience" and asserted the ability of immigrants to move across borders
safely as a "trans-global right." Sorry, professor, you lost me.

First, if individuals do have such a right, then why does it supersede the right
of sovereign nations to control their borders? On its southern border, Mexico
asserts its right to keep out Guatemalans, Salvadorans, Hondurans and anyone
else from throughout Latin America. Wouldn't people in Central and South America
have the same "trans-global right" to cross into Mexico that Mexicans assert
with regard to the United States? If Dominguez really believes in a right to
cross borders, maybe he should ship some of his GPS devices all the way to
Guatemala so people there can use them to sneak into Mexico?

Besides, the whole principle of civil disobedience is about breaking an unjust
law and accepting the consequences. Henry David Thoreau went to jail for not
paying the Massachusetts poll tax to protest the Mexican-American War. Martin
Luther King Jr. went to jail in Birmingham to protest Jim Crow. If Dominguez
really believes he's following in that esteemed tradition, then he's
acknowledging that he's breaking the law. And this means he's acknowledging that
he's helping people enter the United States illegally. That's a crime.

While some people are complaining   loudly   that state tax dollars might have
gone to fund this research, this doesn't bother me. University professors spend
tax money on all kinds of controversial research, some to advance causes on the
right and others to push agendas on the left. Why single out this instance?

What really bothers me is that Dominguez has, in the eternal drama playing out
on the U.S.-Mexico border, gone from observer to enabler. It's one thing to
lament illegal immigration into the United States and try to react to it in a
firm, honest and compassionate manner while battling hatred, racism and
ignorance. It's another to encourage more of it.

And why? Out of a sense of ethnic solidarity, an imaginary bond between a Latino
academic and Latino immigrants? Because of a desire to grow, even by
illegitimate means, the size of the Latino community in the hopes of increasing
the political and economic power of the whole?

Latinos in the United States have it tough enough already. People are always
assuming that when it comes to the immigration issue, our loyalties lie on the
other side of the border. I usually dismiss those fears as flashes of paranoia.
But this gadget says that, at least in some cases, those concerns aren't
unfounded.

How unfortunate that, in trying to help illegal immigrants navigate their way
across the U.S.-Mexico border, well-intentioned humanitarians could lose their
bearings.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Schwarzenegger changes his tune, puts blame on
illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 617 words


Et tu, Arnold?

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is usually a kinder, gentler Republican when it comes
to immigrants. So what a shame that Schwarzenegger would, in his recent State of
the State address, spread a familiar half-truth about the economics of illegal
immigration by stressing the costs while ignoring the benefits.

This isn't the Arnold we knew.

In 2006, during a meeting with the editorial board of a Spanish-language
newspaper, La Opinión, Schwarzenegger said it was a mistake for him to have
supported Proposition 187, a mean-spirited ballot initiative in 1994 that denied
education, social services and nonemergency health care to illegal immigrants.

In 2007, in a speech to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, Schwarzenegger
called President George W. Bush "very courageous" for pursuing comprehensive
immigration reform that included a pathway to earned legalization for the 12
million undocumented immigrants in the United States.

In 2008, during a meeting with the editorial board of the San Diego
Union-Tribune, Schwarzenegger insisted that the United States has long struggled
with the immigration issue in part because "there is always a certain percentage
of people who just don't like foreigners."

And in 2009, during another meeting with the Union-Tribune, Schwarzenegger
disputed the claim that California was in distress because it provides services
to illegal immigrants. In fact, he said, the undocumented contribute to the
California economy by working in hard-to-staff industries.

Schwarzenegger could have mentioned some of that in his State of the State
address. Instead, he started arguing that California has been shortchanged. He
claimed that the state only gets 78 cents back from the federal government for
every dollar it sends to Washington while other states get a better return. One
reason the economic picture is grim, he said, is that "Californians carry a
special burden since we are a border state."

Schwarzenegger said that the federal government   though responsible for
controlling the border   is "not even funding a 50-50 split of the costs of
undocumented immigrants." Claiming that his state is owed billions of dollars
for providing social programs, education and health care and other services to
illegal immigrants, he vowed to fight for reimbursement.

As part of his proposed budget for the 2010-11 fiscal year, Schwarzenegger is
asking for $6.9 billion in federal funds to help close a $20 billion deficit.

In doing all this, Schwarzenegger perpetuates the fiction that illegal
immigration is something that was done to California when, in reality, it is
something that the state did to itself.

It's true that California has more illegal immigrants than any other state. But
that's because it has more than its share of employers who hire illegal
immigrants.

Those employers also hire U.S. workers. Those employers make payrolls and
support families. And they pay taxes. When their businesses do well, the state
does well.

These are the benefits that Schwarzenegger talked about in last year's meeting
with the Union-Tribune. And that's what he forgot to mention in his screed
against federal mandates.

Meanwhile, I remember something else the governor mentioned during his visit.

"I think it's very important that we always correct (misinformation) and talk
about how the reality works," Schwarzenegger said. "Because when you get asked,
'Isn't it the illegal immigrants who caused this budget problem and this budget
mess and why we have a $24 billion budget crisis?' you've got to go and tell
people, 'That is not so.' "

Now, Schwarzenegger is singing a different tune and implying that illegal
immigrants are a drain on California.

Sorry, Governor. That is not so.



LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

Governor talking through his sombrero again, aide says

BYLINE: By Steven Harmon Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 475 words


SACRAMENTO   Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's comments about building a prison in
Mexico to house undocumented immigrants currently held in California prisons
reflected only his "out-of-the-box" thinking rather than a serious policy
proposal, his spokesman said Tuesday.

Schwarzenegger had suggested that the state could save $1 billion by paying
Mexico to build a prison there to house 19,000 undocumented immigrants.

His comments at the Sacramento Press Club on Monday caught many   including his
own head of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation   by surprise and
forced his staff to retreat into cleanup mode.

"It's not a proposal we're putting forward at this point," said Aaron McLear, a
spokesman for the governor. "This is nothing we proposed, nothing we planned to
propose, but a concept that if folks think is a good idea, maybe we ought to
talk about it."

To be clear, McLear added, "there is no proposal at this point, just something
the governor thought was interesting."

The idea was immediately panned by legislators from both parties, who said it
would amount to an early release of inmates. Matthew Cate, head of the
Department of Corrections, said he hadn't heard about the idea, and a spokesman
for the California Correctional Peace Officers Association said there would be
no way to require another country to house inmates who hadn't committed crimes
within its borders.

Schwarzenegger's undisciplined side appears to be re-emerging in his last year
as governor, said Jack Pitney, a government professor at Claremont McKenna
College.

"His last year he's gotten less careful, as witness the obscene acrostic,"
Pitney said, referring to the governor's veto message of a bill by Assemblyman
Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, in which the first letters of each line spelled
out a phrase that included an expletive.

"He's always had a spontaneous side, which on the one hand can be very
energizing, but on the other hand gets him into trouble," Pitney said. "When it
comes to serious policy and undocumented aliens, it's probably best not to
freelance."

McLear said that it was a "concept that people have mentioned" to the governor
though he could not say who mentioned it. It was, McLear said, an extension of
the governor's thinking on reducing prison costs and of his proposal to increase
the number of inmates sent to private prisons.

"Whether that's Mexico, or other countries or other states, if we can figure out
creative ways we can save money on what we're spending on prisons, we ought to
debate it and take a look at that," McLear said.

The governor, McLear added, likes "the out-of-the-box creative ideas and doesn't
think any idea is too zany to at least debate. ... He likes the ideas that maybe
people haven't thought of before. Maybe you flush those ideas out and they don't
make sense."

Reach Steven Harmon at 916-441-2101.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Study: Smaller share of California population is foreign-born

BYLINE: By Jacob Adelman Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 650 words


LOS ANGELES   Immigrants' share of California's population has declined for the
third straight year after a half century of growth, with the economic downturn
and increased border enforcement discouraging fresh immigration to the state,
according to a University of Southern California study released Wednesday.

California's foreign-born population   including both legal and illegal
immigrants   was estimated at 26.6 percent this year, down from a peak of 27.4
percent in 2007, the study's authors determined based on recently published
federal data.

The study supplied only percentages, not raw population numbers. But applied to
U.S. Census Bureau data, those percentages show the number of foreign-born
residents largely holding steady at around 9.9 million, while the state's total
population increased from 36.6 million to 37.2 million.

Santa Clara County's foreign-born population dropped from 37.5 percent in 2007
to 36.8 percent in 2008, the most recent year for which a county breakdown was
available. That figure was still the highest of the California counties
surveyed, those with populations of 65,000 and up.

The dip reversed an increase in the proportion of foreign-born residents that
began in 1965, when federal reforms lifted some restrictions on immigration,
said USC urban planning and demography professor Dowell Myers, one of the
study's lead authors.

"The absolute number of foreign-born residents in California is now growing very
slowly because of the falling rate of new arrivals, continued out-migration "...
and the mortality among aging immigrants," the studies' authors wrote. "The
harsh effect of the Great Recession on job opportunities throughout 2010 and
possibly later seems likely to cause a continuation of this steep decline."

The decline is being seen throughout the country as well, with the nationwide
share of foreign-born residents estimated at 12.5 percent of the population this
year, down slightly from its 2007 peak of 12.6 percent.

Applied to census data, that shows a nationwide increase to nearly 39 million
foreign-born residents in 2010 from about 38 million in 2007, a 1.8 percent
increase.

The country's overall population increased 2.8 percent during that time, from
nearly 302 million to 310 million.

Steven Camarota, director of research for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for tighter controls on immigration, said the data he has
reviewed also shows such decreases, in California and nationwide.

But he said he expects the immigration reform legislation now being discussed in
Washington will likely contain provisions that boost the size of foreign-born
populations.

"The administration is committed to the idea of legalization, so that will make
people who were thinking of going home stay," he said.

The USC study, which relies on data from the Census Bureau, National Vital
Statistics System and other federal sources, notes that all six counties that
make up Southern California, a region known for its large immigrant population,
were majority foreign-born in 1980.

By 2008, however, all but Los Angeles and San Diego counties were majority
native, with those two counties expected to cross the 50 percent mark in 2011.

Myers said the shift may make California voters more willing to approve tax
increases for improved public education and other social programs, since they'll
perceive those benefits as going to fellow Californians, as opposed to
foreign-born immigrants.

Voters may also become more willing to pay for public education out of a belief
that native Californians are more likely to remain in the state and contribute
to its future economic growth, said Myers, who has written extensively about the
economic contributions of immigrants.

Thomas Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, said it was not surprising that the downturn would
discourage immigration.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

Health care reform leaves out illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; Health; News; National; State

LENGTH: 856 words


FRESNO   Paula Medrano shifts uncomfortably on the doctor's examination table,
holding out a wrist inflamed and swollen by arthritis. The 78-year-old has no
health insurance, lives below the federal poverty level, and can't pay for the
medication she needs.

Just days before her appointment, President Barack Obama signed, with much
fanfare, a historic bill to extend health care access to 32 million currently
uninsured people.

But Medrano and her daughter, Juana Aguirre, barely paid attention.

"It's a great thing, but it's not for us," Aguirre said.

Medrano is an undocumented immigrant   one of the 7 million uninsured people
living in the United States who were explicitly excluded from the legislation,
according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office.

The question of whether to extend coverage to illegal immigrants was so
politically contentious that, under the approved legislation, they will not even
be able to buy health insurance in the newly created purchasing pools called
exchanges if they pay entirely out of their own pocket.

Proponents of reducing immigration believe that allowing illegal immigrants
access to health care is an incentive for them to come, and an unfair tax burden
on Americans.

Although the approved legislation explicitly excludes undocumented immigrants
from participating in the exchanges, there is no foolproof way of verifying
their documentation to keep them out, said Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of
Alliance for a Sustainable USA.

They will also continue to have access to emergency medical assistance.

"It is not fair on struggling Americans," Yeh said.

What is clear is that as the ranks of the uninsured diminish, immigrants like
Medrano will continue to patch together health care as they can   at health
centers such as Fresno's Clinica Sierra Vista, at hospital emergency rooms, or
through programs like Healthy San Francisco, which offers universal health care
to all who live in the city.

"We have to be very creative   not asking for labs unless it's really essential,
working with generics, working with drug companies, giving them samples," said
Juan Carlos Ruvalcaba, the doctor seeing Medrano at Clinica, which charges on a
sliding scale of $40 to $70, depending on the patient's ability to pay.

Once an undocumented immigrant himself, Ruvalcaba was able to become a citizen
and attend medical school because of an amnesty program in 1986. He remains
committed to serving all patients, no matter their insurance or immigration
status, but there is only so much he can do, he said.

He was able to give Medrano the drugs she needed, but he asked, "What happens
when they need a specialist? What if they end up in the emergency room, and end
up with a big bill?"

Some who work with this population are afraid that with the focus shifting to
providing care for the newly insured, those shut out of the system will be
forgotten, left to fend for themselves with even fewer resources.

"It may make things worse   if you say 32 million are covered, there may be less
done for these large groups who are here, who are working, who are such a large
part of our agriculture industry," said Norma Forbes, executive director of
Fresno Healthy Communities Access Partners, a nonprofit network of 11
health-care organizations in California's rural Central Valley.

Undocumented immigrants won't be the only uninsured left: about 16 million
Americans are estimated to remain outside the health care system even after
access is expanded over the next few years, according to the Congressional
Budget Office.

This includes those who opt out, who don't know how to enroll, or who are exempt
from the health insurance requirement because they can't afford the premiums,
even with a subsidy.

For these patients, there will indeed be fewer options as doctors, hospitals and
other providers increase their caseload to take in new patients bearing
insurance, said Dan Hawkins, who is charged with policy and research at the
National Association of Community Health Centers.

"There will be greater concentration of care for the uninsured in fewer places,"
Hawkins said.

Community health centers, the lynchpin of the safety net system now caring for
the medically underserved, whether they are immigrants or citizens, will remain
one of the places where people like Medrano will be able to see a doctor at an
affordable cost. Federally qualified clinics got a substantial funding boost
through the health reform package.

They will get $11 billion in new funding over the next five years, which will
allow them to double the number of patients they see, from 20 million a year now
to 40 million people a year by 2015.

Most of these new patients will come bearing new insurance cards, or be part of
the larger pool qualifying for Medicaid. But among them will be illegal
immigrants, said Hawkins.

"Health centers will continue to be open to everyone regardless of their ability
to pay, undocumented immigrants and everyone else," he said. "We don't know how
many of the uninsured we serve right now are undocumented. But we do know a
health center is a better, and less expensive, place for them to get that care."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Editorial: Apparent shift in California views on immigration is encouraging

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 333 words


It's perilous to rely on any one poll to determine where the California
electorate is heading. But we can't resist taking some cheer from a new Los
Angeles Times-USC survey that signals a sea change in the way voters view
undocumented immigrants.

If it's accurate, then we've moved beyond the mean-spirited legacy of
Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative to deny public education and social
services to residents who came here illegally. Considering the anger and
extremism that dominate so much of today's political discourse, this is a very
hopeful sign.

The poll, with a margin of error of 2.6 percentage points, indicated 67 percent
of Californians support a two-pronged approach to stemming illegal immigration:
stronger border enforcement and   here's the aha! moment   a path to citizenship
for immigrants who admit they broke the law, pay a fine and back taxes, perform
community service and learn English. A majority also supports a temporary worker
program.

This may surprise some political candidates. For example, a radio ad airing this
week from GOP gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman accuses her opponent, Steve
Poizner, of having supported former President George W. Bush's immigration
reform plan that included   gasp   a guest worker provision. Meanwhile, Poizner,
a former moderate now pandering to the right, has said he'd like to toss
undocumented children out of school. (Whitman, to her credit, would not.)

Proposition 187 passed with 59 percent of the vote amid a weak economy that some
political leaders exploited to demonize undocumented immigrants. The U.S.
Supreme Court ruled the law unconstitutional, but conservatives have clung to it
as a barometer of public opinion.

You don't have to be a raving liberal to believe in humane immigration reform.
The alternative, mass deportation of about 12 million people, is simply
impractical, and maintaining a permanent underclass will undermine all of
society. Perhaps that's the reality that Californians are coming to grips with.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday

Opinion: Amnesty isn't the problem, it's our immigration limits

BYLINE: By Alex Nowrasteh Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 654 words


With the passing of health care reform, immigration is in the news again   and
for good reason. Even with a recession, financial crisis, incompetent
government, Islamic terrorism and traffic, America is still a great place to
live. That's why millions of immigrants seek to make a better life here.

But instead of welcoming the tired, poor and industrious masses, Uncle Sam
offers a Byzantine legal path to immigration that excludes virtually all
low-skilled workers. Illegal immigration exists because legal immigration is
practically impossible.

The latest proposed immigration bill, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for
America's Security and Prosperity Act of 2009, ignited a passionate battle on
Capitol Hill over its amnesty provision. But why is this debate so heated?

According to the Pew Research Center, there were 10.8 million illegal immigrants
in the United States in 2009. Yet illegal immigration is a relatively recent
phenomenon. Before the 1920s, with some notable exceptions, the United States
was a free immigration country. If you were literate and relatively healthy
(and, shamefully, not Chinese), you could immigrate to the United States.

The 1921 Emergency Quota Act changed all that. As an unintended consequence,
that act helped create illegal immigration by severely restricting and, in many
cases, entirely removing the possibility of legal immigration.

Past amnesties, like the largest in 1986, failed to stem the flow of illegal
immigrants. The anti-immigrant lobby is fond of pointing this out. What they
ignore is that the flow of illegal immigrants continued because legal
immigration opportunities were not expanded.

Past amnesties worked as intended. They brought millions of illegal immigrants
out of the shadows and into the mainstream of American life. Yet politicians
dropped the ball in 1986 by failing to create more ways to legally immigrate to
the United States.

Since then, restrictionists have torpedoed real immigration reform that takes
account of economic reality. The latest reform proposal is the result.

It has some merits. It increases the quota for highly skilled graduates of
American universities. Its amnesty provision requires illegal immigrants to pay
a fine, learn English, pass a criminal background check and jump through other
hoops. Unfortunately, the bill also puts more limits on legally hiring
foreigners.

A one-time amnesty that is not coupled with a path to legal residence only
pushes the problem into the future. It also puts more regulatory hurdles in the
path for legal low-skilled immigration.

There is a way out of this.

Most temporary work visas are sponsored by employers, who must follow a
complicated and costly process to hire foreigners temporarily to fulfill needed
jobs. H-1B visas, for highly skilled workers, can cost thousands of dollars per
worker. The cost of the H-2 visa program for hiring lower-skilled workers is so
high that it is underused. Denied the possibility of sponsoring foreign workers
legally, employers turn to hiring undocumented workers.

Illegal immigration will not come under control until work visas are reformed to
accommodate that reality. Four steps are needed:


     ·    Immigrants, not employers, should hold the visas.



     ·    Hiring someone with a visa should be as easy as hiring an American
          citizen.



     ·    There should be no numerical cap on the numbers of work visas issued.



     ·    Instead of trying to arrest busboys, fruit pickers and software
          engineers, U.S. immigration enforcement should focus on weeding out
          criminals and potential terrorists.


Legalization eliminates black markets and their attendant negative consequences.
Legalizing immigration and offering an amnesty to the noncriminals here will
have the same results. The 2009 bill is not the answer or much of a starting
point; a real immigration reform bill is needed.

ALEX NOWRASTEH is a policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute. He
wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Where's the Arizona I once knew?

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 740 words


SAN DIEGO   In the late 1990s, I took a job writing for a newspaper and moved to
Arizona.

At least I think it was Arizona. The place I remember bears little resemblance
to the one you hear about today. Back then, nativists were on the political
fringe; now they're becoming mainstream. Republicans were anxiously reaching out
to Hispanics; now GOP legislators are making Hispanics anxious with race-baiting
measures to end affirmative action. Political leaders, including the Republican
governor, had torpedoed efforts to bring before voters a ballot initiative that
would have denied education and social services to illegal immigrants; now
Arizonans are in such a punitive mood that they would easily approve such a
measure.

Back then, none other than Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio was quoted as
saying there wasn't much his deputies could do about illegal immigration since
being in the country without documentation wasn't a crime; now Arpaio is so bent
on rounding up illegal immigrants that even after the Obama administration
stripped him of the authority to determine someone's legal status, he kept on
doing it.

And perhaps most significantly, back then the business community was so
desperate for labor that it was doing everything but recruiting illegal
immigrants and offering them signing bonuses to make beds, cook meals, build
homes and otherwise help construct a paradise in the desert; now that a lot of
the work has been done, Arizonans want to portray themselves as innocent victims
of an invasion. Fifteen years ago, Arizonans wanted cheap labor; today, they
want your sympathy.

Arizona lawmakers think they're showing how tough they can be in passing a harsh
new law that makes it a state crime to be in the United States without the
proper legal documents. But really, all they're doing is showing their
hypocrisy. If the legislators who voted for this law were serious about trying
to curb illegal immigration, they would cut off the job magnet. The Arizona
Legislature focused on employers a few years ago, but the effort was aimed at
companies as opposed to individuals. Start locking up soccer moms for hiring
undocumented housekeepers or Paradise Valley lawyers for outsourcing their yard
work, and then we'll talk.

The new legislation, billed as one of the strictest anti-illegal immigration
laws in the country, would grant police the power to stop anyone suspected of
being in the country illegally and verify their immigration status.

Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican intent on scoring political points by
railing against illegal immigrants, will likely sign the bill. And, shortly
thereafter, the lawsuits will fly as critics try to get the law tossed out by
the courts. There's a good chance of this happening. The law appears to be an
unconstitutional power grab by the state that usurps the authority of the
federal government to establish and enforce U.S. immigration policy. It will
also almost certainly lead to racial profiling of Latinos, including those born
in the United States.

This bill is as bad as they come. Not surprisingly, it is the brainchild of
state Sen. Russell Pearce, who has spent years teaching Arizonans division. By
tapping into a fear of foreigners, Pearce has successfully scared up votes,
headlines and political contributions. Some lawmakers accomplish those things
through visionary leadership, courageous acts and soaring rhetoric. People like
Pearce do it by pandering to racists and playing to the lowest common
denominator.

The real tragedy in all this is that the bill, which professes to take a hard
line against illegal activity, will almost certainly produce much more of it. By
proposing a law that deputizes every local and state law enforcement officer in
Arizona to enforce immigration law, Pearce has single-handedly destroyed the
trust between law enforcement agencies and the immigrant communities they have
spent years trying to better serve. Good luck finding people who are willing to
report crimes and be interviewed as witnesses now that they are afraid they
might be arrested or deported. That makes these communities easy prey for
criminals and makes the job of law enforcement much harder.

This measure is not wise, or helpful or defensible. In fact, in many ways, it's
a surefire recipe for disaster. And it's also the kind of thing that the Arizona
I'm familiar with would never have considered.

Ruben Navarrette is a San Diego Union Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

Hispanics fear profiling under new Arizona law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 480 words


PHOENIX   Arodi Berrelleza isn't one of the targets of Arizona's new law
cracking down on illegal immigration   he's a U.S. citizen, a high school
student from Phoenix.

But the 18-year-old said he's afraid he'll be arrested anyway if police see him
driving around with friends and relatives, some of them illegal immigrants.

"If a cop sees them and they look Mexican, he's going to stop me," Berrelleza
said. "What if people are U.S. citizens? They're going to be asking them if they
have papers because of the color of their skin."

Berrelleza's concerns were echoed by Latinos across the state Saturday, a day
after Gov. Jan Brewer signed a bill that requires police to question people
about their immigration status   including asking for identification   if they
suspect someone is in the country illegally.

The new law, which will take effect in late July or early August, was cheered by
many, including Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio, whose crackdowns have made
him a hero in the anti-illegal-immigration community. He said it gives him new
authority to detain undocumented immigrants who aren't accused of committing any
other crimes.

"Now if we show they're illegal, we can actually arrest them and put them in our
jails," Arpaio said.

Current law in Arizona and most states doesn't require police to ask about the
immigration status of those they come across, and many departments prohibit
officers from inquiring out of fear immigrants won't report crime or cooperate
in other investigations.

Now, police departments seen as weak on illegal immigration could face lawsuits.
The new measure also toughens restrictions on hiring illegal immigrants for day
labor and knowingly transporting them.

Arizona has an estimated 460,000 illegal immigrants and is the state with the
most illegal border crossings, with the harsh, remote desert serving as the
gateway for thousands of Mexicans and Central Americans.

Arpaio said he hoped Arizona's example coerces the federal government into
acting. President Barack Obama called the new law "misguided" Saturday and
instructed the Justice Department to examine it to see whether it's legal, but
also said the failure to enact national immigration reform left the door open to
"irresponsibility by others."

"You're going to see a lot of interest with the politicians in Washington to get
something done," Arpaio said. "Because I think they'll be afraid that other
states will follow this new law that's now been passed."

Mona Patton, a 58-year-old real estate agent from Prescott, said she's proud of
Brewer and the Legislature for trying to protect people from violent drug
cartels.

"When Arizonans aren't safe then something has to be done. We've got to let law
enforcement handle things," Patton said.

Civil rights advocates vowed to challenge the law in court, saying it would
undoubtedly lead to racial profiling despite Brewer's assurances.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Lawsuits target Arizona law amid calls for boycotts

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper and Paul Davenport Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 501 words


PHOENIX   Anger mounted Thursday over an Arizona measure cracking down on
illegal immigration as a police officer sued to challenge it, governors in Texas
and Colorado weighed in to oppose such a law in their own states, and activists
in Chicago chanted for a boycott outside an Arizona Diamondbacks game.

The lawsuit from 15-year Tucson police veteran Martin Escobar was one of two
filed Thursday, less than a week after Republican Gov. Jan Brewer signed the
bill that critics claim is unconstitutional and fear will lead to racial
profiling.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder has said the federal government may challenge
the law, which requires local and state law enforcement to question people about
their immigration status if there's reason to suspect they're in the country
illegally, and which makes it a state crime to be in the United States
illegally.

Brewer and other backers say the state law is necessary amid the federal
government's failure to secure the border and growing anxiety over crime related
to illegal immigration.

While divisive debate over the law swirled nationwide, Arizona lawmakers were
aiming to adjourn their legislative session late Thursday. Before doing so, they
were expected to vote on a recommendation from a House-Senate conference
committee that would strengthen restrictions in the law on using race or
ethnicity as the basis for police questioning. The law's sponsor, Republican
Sen. Russell Pearce, characterized those possible changes as clarifications
"just to take away the silly arguments and the games, the dishonesty that's been
played."

In filing his suit against the law, Escobar, an overnight patrol officer in a
heavily Latino area of Tucson, argued that there's no way for officers to
confirm people's immigration status without impeding investigations, and that
the new law violates constitutional rights.

Tucson police spokesman Sgt. Fabian Pacheco said Escobar acted on his own in
suing, and not on the department's behalf.

The National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders also sued
Thursday, and sought an injunction preventing authorities from enforcing the
law. The group argued that federal law pre-empts state regulation of national
borders, and that Arizona's law violates due process rights by letting police
detain suspected illegal immigrants before they're convicted.

"Mexican-Americans are not going to take this lying down," singer Linda
Ronstadt, a Tucson native, said at a state Capitol news conference on another
lawsuit planned by the American Civil Liberties Union, the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the National Immigration Law Center.

At least three Arizona cities   Phoenix, Flagstaff and Tucson   are considering
legal action to block the law. In Flagstaff, police investigated a threatening
e-mail sent to members of the City Council over their opposition to the law. The
author said council members should be "arrested, tried in court, found guilty of
treason and hanged from the nearest tree!"

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

AP-Univision Poll: Immigration splits Americans

BYLINE: By Alan Fram Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 338 words


WASHINGTON   Illegal immigrants are a boon, not a burden to the country, a
resounding majority of Hispanics say, according to an Associated Press-Univision
Poll that underscores sharp contrasts between the views of Hispanics and others.
Most non-Hispanics say illegal immigrants are a drain on society.

In addition, most Hispanics condemn Arizona's strict new law targeting
undocumented immigrants, while only 20 percent of non-Hispanics oppose it.

The survey also found some remarkably similar views between Hispanics and
non-Hispanics on the complex, emotional issue of immigration, which has gained
prominence this election year. About two-thirds of both groups consider illegal
immigration a serious problem and only a quarter of each think the Arizona law
will ease the state's troubles.

Even so, much of the poll   which questioned 901 Hispanic adults and was
compared to a separate survey of the general population   reads as if soundings
were taken of two distinct worlds, an impression fortified by follow-up
interviews.

"People are not coming to this country to do bad things, people are coming to
make money for their families," said Javier Zurita, 43, a factory worker in
Garfield, N.J., and a U.S. citizen from Ecuador. "These people love this
country, they've had sons and daughters in this country."

William Ryan, 38, a contractor from Elkridge, Md., sees things differently.

"It seems like every working illegal immigrant has four family members who don't
work. And we're paying for all of them," said Ryan, who is white and
non-Hispanic.

The AP-Univision Poll was conducted from May 7-12 by GfK Roper Public Affairs &
Media. It involved landline and cell phone interviews with 901 Hispanic adults
and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5.3 percentage points.

The findings were compared to a separate poll of 1,002 people from the general
population, also by GfK Roper. It involved cell and landline interviews
conducted from May 7-11, and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4.3
percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Immigrant crossings into Arizona on the rise

BYLINE: By Olga R. Rodriguez Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 317 words


NOGALES, Mexico   The migrants walk for days through miles of mesquite scrub,
running low on food and sometimes water, paying armed drug thug "guides" and
dodging U.S. law enforcement officers along the way. And still they keep coming.

The latest figures show that Arizona, which is about to put into effect the
nation's toughest immigration law, also is the only border state where illegal
crossings are on the rise.

While tightened security and daunting fences in Texas and California have made
Arizona a busy crossing corridor for years, migrant smugglers now are finding
new ways through the state's treacherous deserts.

Carmen Gonzalez, 27, recalled seven days and six nights of walking with her
husband in the desert and being accosted by Mexican thugs with AK-47s, who
demanded $100 bribes. They were later arrested at a safe house in Arizona.

"It was so hard and so ugly," Gonzalez said at a shelter in this Mexican border
town, where she, her husband and her brother were staying after being deported.
"I won't try again because we went through too much suffering in the desert."

New U.S. Border Patrol statistics show arrests on the Arizona border were up 6
percent   by about 10,000   from October to April, even as apprehension of
illegal immigrants dropped 9 percent overall.

The agency uses arrests to gauge the flow of migrants; there are no precise
figures on the number of illegal crossings.

Illegal immigration

In the 1990s, increased enforcement and corrugated metal and chain-link fences
dramatically cut illegal border crossings in California and Texas, according to
the Border Patrol.
Illegal immigration declined from nearly 1.2 million in 2005 to 541,000 last
year in California, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona.
In Arizona, illegal crossings fell from 578,000 in 2005 to nearly 250,000 last
year.
But from October to April, arrests on the Arizona border were up 6 percent " by
about 10,000.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday

Obama clamors for federal fix to immigration woes

BYLINE: By Ben Feller Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 302 words


WASHINGTON   Confronting soaring frustration over illegal immigration, President
Barack Obama on Wednesday condemned Arizona's crackdown and pushed instead for a
federal fix the nation could embrace. He said that will never happen without
Republican support, pleading: "I need some help."

In asking anew for an immigration overhaul, Obama showed solidarity with his
guest of honor, Mexican President Felipe Calderon, who called Arizona's law
discriminatory and warned that Mexico would reject any effort to "criminalize
migration." The United States and Mexico share a significant economic and
political relationship that stands to be damaged the more the nations are at
odds over immigration, which affects millions of people on both sides of the
border.

Obama sought to show that he, too, is fed up with his own government's failure
to fix a system widely seen as broken. He said that would require solving border
security, employment and citizenship issues all at once   the kind of effort
that collapsed in Congress just three years ago.

In the appearance with Calderon, Obama called the Arizona law "a misdirected
expression of frustration."

Calderon was upbeat about the chance of finding a fair, dignified way of dealing
with migrants. He added: "Many of them, despite their significant contribution
to the economy and to the society of the United States, still live in the
shadows, and occasionally, as in Arizona, they even face discrimination."

The immigration theme dominated a day of pageantry and showy support for
Calderon, who enjoyed a state visit with his wife, Margarita Zavala.

The Mexican president was treated to a grand welcome on the South Lawn in the
morning. Wednesday night, 200 guests were invited for a state dinner in the East
Room, followed by entertainment under cover of an enormous tent.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Officials: US Border agent shoot teen at bridge

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 559 words


EL PASO, Texas (AP)   A U.S. Border Patrol agent shot and killed a 15-year-old
Mexican boy after a group trying to illegally enter the U.S. threw rocks at the
agents at an international bridge near downtown El Paso, authorities said
Tuesday.

The shooting, which happened Monday evening, drew sharp criticism from Mexico,
where the government said Tuesday that "the use of firearms to repel attacks
with stones represents disproportionate use of force, particularly coming from
authorities who have received specialized training."

According to the FBI, Border Patrol agents were responding to a group of
suspected illegal immigrants being smuggled into the U.S. near the Paso Del
Norte bridge, across from Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, around 6:30 p.m. Monday.

One suspected illegal immigrant was detained on the levy on the U.S. side, the
FBI said in a statement. Another Border Patrol agent arrived on the concrete
bank where the Rio Grande would be if there was water flowing and detained a
second suspect. Other suspects ran back into Mexico and began throwing rocks,
the FBI said.

At least one rock came from behind the agent, who was kneeling beside the
suspected illegal immigrant he had prone on the ground, FBI spokeswoman Andrea
Simmons said.

The agent told the rock throwers to stop and back off, but they continued. The
agent fired his weapon several times, hitting one who later died, said the FBI,
which is leading the investigation because it involved an assault on a federal
officer. The agent was not injured, Simmons said.

Chihuahua State officials released a statement Tuesday demanding a full
investigation into the death of the boy, identified as Sergio Adrian Hernandez
Huereca.

The boy's sister, Rosario Hernandez, told Associated Press Television News that
her brother was playing with several friends and did not plan to cross the
border.

"They say that they started firing from over there and suddenly hit him in the
head," she said Monday.

His mother, Maria Guadalupe Guereca, told Milenio TV in Mexico that her son had
gone to visit his brother, who handles luggage at a border customs office. While
there, he met up with friends and they decided to hang out by the river, she
said.

"That was his mistake, to have gone to the river," she said. "That's why they
killed him."

She said he ran and hid underneath one of the bridge's pillars upon hearing
gunfire.

"He was a boy, and even then they killed him," she said. "I ask that they punish
them. ... They left me without anything."

The boy was shot once near the eye, and authorities found one 40-millimeter
casing near the body on Mexican soil, said Arturo Sandoval, a spokesman for the
Chihuahua Attorney General's office.

Mexico's Foreign Relations Department said it "energetically condemns" the
shooting and demanded "an expeditious and transparent investigation of the facts
and, if applicable, punishment of the guilty."

The department said its records indicated that the number of Mexicans killed or
wounded by immigration authorities rose from five in 2008 to 12 in 2009 to 17 so
far this year, which is not yet half over.

T.J. Bonner, president of the union representing Border Patrol agents, said
rock-throwing incidents against Border Patrol agents are common and capable of
causing serious injury.

"It is a deadly force encounter," Bonner said. "One that justifies the use of
deadly force."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

Arizona lawmaker takes aim at automatic citizenship

BYLINE: By Michelle Price Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 386 words


PHOENIX   Emboldened by passage of the nation's toughest law against illegal
immigration, the Arizona politician who sponsored the measure now wants to deny
U.S. citizenship to children born in this country to undocumented parents.

Legal scholars laugh out loud at Republican state Sen. Russell Pearce's proposal
and warn that it would be blatantly unconstitutional, since the 14th Amendment
guarantees citizenship to anyone born in the United States.

But Pearce brushes aside such concerns. And given the charged political
atmosphere in Arizona, and public anger over what many regard as a failure by
the federal government to secure the border, some politicians think the idea has
a chance of passage.

"I think the time is right," said state Rep. John Kavanagh, a Republican from
suburban Phoenix who is chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee.
"Federal inaction is unacceptable, so the states have to start the process."

Earlier this year, the Legislature set off a storm of protests around the
country when it passed a law that directs police to check the immigration status
of anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. The law also makes it a
state crime to be an illegal immigrant. The measure, which takes effect July 29
unless blocked in court, has inflamed the national debate over immigration and
led to boycotts against the state.

An estimated 10.8 million illegal immigrants were living in the United States as
of January 2009, according to the Homeland Security Department. The Pew Hispanic
Center estimates that as of 2008, there were 3.8 million illegal immigrants in
this country whose children are U.S. citizens.

Pearce, who has yet to draft the legislation, proposes that Arizona no longer
issue birth certificates unless at least one parent can prove legal status. He
contends that the practice of granting citizenship to anyone born in the United
States encourages illegal immigrants to come to this country to give birth and
secure full rights for their children.

The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868 in the aftermath of the Civil War, reads:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein
they reside." But Pearce argues that the amendment was meant to protect black
people.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

Arizona lawmaker takes aim at automatic citizenship

BYLINE: By Michelle Price Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 781 words


PHOENIX   Emboldened by passage of the nation's toughest law against illegal
immigration, the Arizona politician who sponsored the measure now wants to deny
U.S. citizenship to children born in this country to undocumented parents.

Legal scholars laugh out loud at Republican state Sen. Russell Pearce's proposal
and warn that it would be blatantly unconstitutional, since the 14th Amendment
guarantees citizenship to anyone born in the U.S.

But Pearce brushes aside such concerns. And given the charged political
atmosphere in Arizona, and public anger over what many regard as a failure by
the federal government to secure the border, some politicians think the idea has
a chance of passage.

"I think the time is right," said state Rep. John Kavanagh, a Republican from
suburban Phoenix who is chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee.
"Federal inaction is unacceptable, so the states have to start the process."

Earlier this year, the Legislature set off a storm of protests around the
country when it passed a law that directs police to check the immigration status
of anyone they suspect is in the country illegally. The law also makes it a
state crime to be an illegal immigrant. The measure, which takes effect July 29
unless blocked in court, has inflamed the national debate over immigration and
led to boycotts against the state.

An estimated 10.8 million illegal immigrants were living in the U.S. as of
January 2009, according to the Homeland Security Department. The Pew Hispanic
Center estimates that as of 2008, there were 3.8 million illegal immigrants in
this country whose children are U.S. citizens.

Pearce, who has yet to draft the legislation, proposes that the state of Arizona
no longer issue birth certificates unless at least one parent can prove legal
status. He contends that the practice of granting citizenship to anyone born in
the U.S. encourages illegal immigrants to come to this country to give birth and
secure full rights for their children.

"We create the greatest inducement for breaking our laws," he said.

The 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868 in the aftermath of the Civil War, reads:
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein
they reside." But Pearce argues that the amendment was meant to protect black
people.

"It's been hijacked and abused," he said. "There is no provision in the 14th
Amendment for the declaration of citizenship to children born here to illegal
aliens."

John McGinnis, a conservative law professor at Northwestern University, said
Pearce's interpretation is "just completely wrong." The "plain meaning" of the
amendment is clear, he said.

Senate candidate Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican and darling of the tea party
movement, made headlines last month after he told a Russian TV station that he
favors denying citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants.

A similar bill was introduced at the federal level in 2009 by former Rep. Nathan
Deal, a Georgia Republican, but it has gone nowhere.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, based in Washington, said
Pearce's idea would stop immigrants from traveling to the U.S. to give birth.

"Essentially we are talking about people who have absolutely no connection
whatever with this country," spokesman Ira Mehlman said. "The whole idea of
citizenship means that you have some connection other than mere happenstance
that you were born on U.S. soil."

Citizenship as a birthright is rare elsewhere in the world. Many countries
require at least one parent to be a citizen or legal resident.

Adopting such a practice in the U.S. would be not only unconstitutional but also
impractical and expensive, said Michele Waslin, a policy analyst with the
pro-immigrant Immigration Policy Center in Washington.

"Every single parent who has a child would have to go through this bureaucratic
process of proving their own citizenship and therefore proving their child's
citizenship," she said.

Araceli Viveros, 27, and her husband, Saul, 34, are illegal immigrants from the
Mexican state of Guerrero. He has been in Phoenix for 20 years, she for 10, and
their 2- and 9-year-old children are U.S. citizens.

"I am so proud my children were born here. They can learn English and keep
studying," Viveros said in Spanish.

She said her husband has been working hard in Phoenix as a landscaper, and their
children deserve to be citizens. The lawmaker's proposal "is very bad," she
said. "It's changing the Constitution, and some children won't have the same
rights as other children."


Associated Press writers Jacques Billeaud and Amanda Lee Myers contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday

Nebraska town to vote on illegal immigration measure

BYLINE: By Timberly Ross Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 226 words


FREMONT, Neb. (AP)   Angered by an influx of Latino workers attracted by jobs at
local plants, voters in the Nebraska city of Fremont will decide today whether
to ban hiring or renting property to illegal immigrants.

The vote will be the culmination of a two-year fight that saw proponents collect
enough signatures to put the question to a public vote. If the ordinance is
approved, the community of 25,000 people could face a long and costly court
battle. Either way, the emotions stirred up won't settle quickly.

"Even if we say 'no' ... we still need to say, 'How do we get along with each
other now?' " said Kristin Ostrom, who helps oversee a campaign against the
measure.

Across the nation, people have been outraged by   and demanded action against
the poor enforcement of federal laws to prevent illegal immigration.

Fremont has seen its Latino population surge in the past two decades. That
increase is largely because they were recruited to work for the Fremont Beef and
Hormel plants, and the city maintains an enviably low unemployment rate.

If approved, the measure will require potential renters to apply for a license
to rent. The application process will force Fremont officials to check if the
renters are in the country legally. The ordinance also requires businesses to
use the federal E-Verify database to ensure employees are allowed to work.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

Utah seeks source of list targeting alleged illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Brock Vergakis Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 516 words


SALT LAKE CITY   State agencies are investigating whether any of their employees
leaked Social Security numbers and other personal information after a list of
1,300 people who an anonymous group claims are illegal immigrants was circulated
around Utah.

The anonymous group mailed the list to several media outlets, law enforcement
agencies and others this week, frightening the state's Hispanic community. A
letter accompanying the list demanded that those on it be deported immediately.

The list also contains highly detailed personal information such as Social
Security numbers, birth dates, workplaces, addresses and phone numbers. Names of
children are included, along with due dates of pregnant women on the list.

Republican Gov. Gary Herbert wrote in a tweet Tuesday that he has asked state
agencies to investigate the list's origin.

"We've got some people in our technology department looking at it right now,"
said Dave Lewis, communication for the state Department of Workforce Services.
"It's a high priority. We want to figure out the how's and why's."

Lewis noted his department is one of several with access to the information
included in the list. He said his agency didn't receive a copy of the list from
the governor's office until late Tuesday.

Most of the names on the list are of Hispanic origin.

"My phone has been ringing nonstop since this morning with people finding out
they're on the list," said Tony Yapias, former director of the Utah Office of
Hispanic Affairs. "They're feeling terrorized. They're very scared."

The letter says some names on the list were sent to the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement office in Salt Lake City in April. It says the new list
includes new names, for a total of more than 1,300.

Included with the new letter is one dated April 4 addressed to "Customs and
Immigration" and from "Concerned Citizens of the United States."

In the April letter, the writers say their group "observes these individuals in
our neighborhoods, driving on our streets, working in our stores, attending our
schools and entering our public welfare buildings."

"We then spend the time and effort needed to gather information along with legal
Mexican nationals who infiltrate their social networks and help us obtain the
necessary information we need to add them to our list," the letter says.

Agency spokeswoman Virginia Kice said ICE received a copy of the list, but she
declined to say whether it is investigating the immigration status of the people
on it.

"As a matter of policy, we don't confirm we are investigating an allegation or
possible violation unless the inquiry results in some type of public enforcement
action," Kice said.

She noted that because ICE has finite resources, it focuses its efforts "first
on those dangerous convicted criminal aliens who present the greatest risk to
the security of our communities, not sweeps or raids to target undocumented
immigrants indiscriminately."

Kice added the agency has had a means for the public to report suspected
criminal activity for several years   a 24-hour tip line staffed by trained
enforcement personnel.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Immigrant deaths in Arizona desert soaring in July

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 295 words


PHOENIX   The number of deaths among illegal immigrants crossing the Arizona
desert from Mexico is soaring so high this month that the medical examiner's
office that handles the bodies is using a refrigerated truck to store some of
them, the chief examiner said Friday.

The bodies of 40 illegal immigrants have been brought to the office of Pima
County Medical Examiner Dr. Bruce Parks since July 1. At that rate, Parks said
the deaths could top the single-month record of 68 in July 2005 since his office
began tracking them in 2000.

"Right now, at the halfway point of the month, to have so many is just a very
bad sign," he said. "It's definitely on course to perhaps be the deadliest month
of all time."

From Jan. 1 to July 15, the office has handled the bodies of 134 illegal
immigrants, up from 93 at the same time last year and 102 in 2008. In 2007, when
the office recorded the highest annual deaths of illegal immigrants, 140 bodies
had been taken there through July 15.

Parks said his office, which handles immigrant bodies from three counties, is
currently storing roughly 250 bodies and had to start using a refrigerated truck
because of the increase in immigrant deaths this month.

He said many of the bodies seem to be coming from the desert southwest of
Tucson, where it tends to be hotter than eastern parts of the border or the
Tucson metro area.

Authorities believe the high number of deaths are likely due to above-average
and unrelenting heat in southern Arizona this month and ongoing tighter border
security that pushes immigrants to more remote, rugged and dangerous terrain.

Erik Pytlak, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said Tucson's
average nighttime lows in the first 15 days of July are the hottest for that
period in recorded history.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 26, 2010 Monday

Immigrant groups criticize fingerprint initiative

BYLINE: By Ivan Moreno Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 549 words


DENVER   The federal government is rapidly expanding a program to identify
illegal immigrants using fingerprints from arrests, drawing opposition from
local authorities and advocates who argue the initiative amounts to an excessive
dragnet.

The program has gotten less attention than Arizona's new law, but it may end up
having a bigger impact because of its potential to round up and deport so many
immigrants nationwide.

The City Council in Washington, D.C., blocked use of the fingerprint plan in the
nation's capital. Colorado is the latest to debate the program, called Secure
Communities, and immigrant groups have begun to speak up, telling the governor
in a letter last week that the initiative will make crime victims reluctant to
cooperate with police "due to fear of being drawn into the immigration regime."

Under the program, the fingerprints of everyone who is booked into jail for any
crime are run against FBI criminal history records and Department of Homeland
Security immigration records to determine who is in the country illegally and
whether they've been arrested previously. Most jurisdictions are not included in
the program, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement has been expanding the
initiative.

Since 2007, 467 jurisdictions in 26 states have joined. ICE has said it plans to
have it in every jail in the country by 2013. Secure Communities is currently
being phased into the places where the government sees as having the greatest
need for it based on population estimates of illegal immigrants and crime
statistics.

Since everyone arrested would be screened, the program could easily deport more
people than Arizona's new law, said Sunita Patel, an attorney who filed a
lawsuit in New York against the federal government on behalf of a group worried
about the program. Patel said that because illegal immigrants could be referred
to ICE at the point of arrest, even before a conviction, the program can create
an incentive for profiling and create a pipeline to deport more people.

"It has the potential to revolutionize immigration enforcement," Patel said.

Patel filed the lawsuit on behalf of the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network, which is concerned the program could soon come to New York. The lawsuit
seeks, among other things, statistical information about who has been deported
as a result of the program and what they were arrested for.

Supporters of the program argue it is helping identify dangerous criminals that
would otherwise go undetected. Since Oct. 27, 2008 through the end of May,
almost 2.6 million people have been screened with Secure Communities. Of those,
almost 35,000 were identified as illegal immigrants previously arrested or
convicted of the most serious crimes, including murder and rape, ICE said
Thursday. More than 205,000 who were identified as illegal immigrants had arrest
records for less serious crimes.

In Ohio, Butler County Sheriff Rick Jones praised the program, which was
implemented in his jurisdiction earlier this month.

"It's really a heaven-sent for us," Jones said. He said the program helps solve
the problem police often have of not knowing whether someone they arrested has a
criminal history and is in the country illegally.

"I don't want them in my community," Jones said. "I've got enough homegrown
criminals here."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Reality Check: An analysis of campaign ads

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 266 words


Spot charging Whitman with deceiving Latinos is not quite accurate

What's the claim? A new Spanish-language ad by Working Californians, a
labor-backed independent expenditure committee, claims GOP gubernatorial
candidate Meg Whitman says "one thing in Spanish and the opposite when she
speaks in English.''

Is it true? The charge isn't accurate. Though Whitman is being selective about
what she says in Spanish-language ads versus English-language ads, she's not
saying the "opposite."

During the GOP primary campaign, Whitman was attacked by opponent Steve Poizner
for being too soft on immigration. So her campaign chairman, former Gov. Pete
Wilson, did an ad saying Whitman would be "tough as nails on illegal
immigration."

Immediately after she won the primary, Whitman ran Spanish-language ads telling
the Latino community she was against Proposition 187, which would have denied
most services to illegal immigrants, and also opposed to the new Arizona law
requiring immigrants to show their immigration papers when stopped by police.

Whitman obviously didn't point out in those ads that Wilson, the champion of
Proposition 187, was chairman of her campaign. Nor did she acknowledge that
she's in favor of denying all undocumented children access to state-funded
colleges and universities.

The new Working Californians ad points out Whitman positions she would prefer
the Latino electorate not hear. But it also distorts some of her positions by
saying things like, "She wants to prevent all" Latino children from having the
opportunity to attend any kind of college.

-- Ken McLaughlin, Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A television add which is also running on youtube in Spanish language,
by and Democratic expenditure committee points out that former governor Pete
Wilson, is Meg Whitman's, campaign manger. Wilson is still despise by many
latinos for championing prop 187, the 1994 measure that would have barred most
services to illegal immigrants. (Screen Grab from Youtube)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday

Illegal immigration: Santa Clara County board wades into debate on federal
fingerprinting program

BYLINE: By Tracy Seipel tseipel@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Central Coast;
Peninsula; Special Reports; Crime; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 585 words


The Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday waded into a growing
debate about a federal program that seeks to enlist local law enforcement in the
war on illegal immigration.

With about a dozen activists pleading for the county to opt out of the Secure
Communities program, the board voted unanimously to ask the county counsel's
office if the county is obliged to participate.

The program, which launched last year and is being phased in across Northern
California this summer, gives federal officials access to the fingerprints of
people arrested locally.

Federal officials reported Monday that 47,000 immigrants -- three-fourths of
whom had criminal records -- have been deported since Homeland Security began
sifting through fingerprints from local jails.

Critics say the program focuses too much on low-level criminals and people who
simply failed to show up for deportation hearings. They also allege the program
does not protect against racial profiling and makes people fearful of reporting
crimes.

"There's a lot of uncertainty about the obligations and impacts on us," said
Supervisor George Shirakawa, who drafted a memo seeking guidance on whether the
program "is consistent with (the) county's priorities."

The answers -- and any options -- are expected to be delivered to the board's
Public Safety and Justice Committee on Sept. 1. The board could hand down a
decision later that month.

Other Bay Area counties are struggling with the issue, too. Santa Cruz County
was scheduled to adopt the program Tuesday.  San Mateo County officials already
have signed up, saying they had no choice.

And when San Francisco's sheriff asked the state Attorney General's Office to
let that city and county opt out of the program, Attorney General Jerry Brown
said no.

"The Secure Communities program is up and running in 169 counties in 20 states,"
Brown wrote in May. "This program serves both public safety and the interest of
justice."

A spokeswoman for Brown on Tuesday said that while his office would review any
similar request Santa Clara County might make, "As far as we know, no county in
America has opted out of the program."

Nevertheless, activists for the county's immigrant communities implored
supervisors not to take part in the program.

"We should continue to be a country that cherishes and accepts immigrants,''
said Samina Sundas, speaking on behalf of the group American Muslim Voice.

Shirakawa's office said Tuesday that more than 600,000 immigrants live in Santa
Clara County, giving it the state's highest percentage of foreign-born
residents.

While the county so far has resisted any formal commitment to the program, it
already plays a role in it. That's because when someone is arrested and taken to
the county jail, his or her fingerprints are sent to an identification system
that is ultimately downloaded to the California Department of Justice. That
state agency, in turn, has an agreement with the federal government to share the
information.

"We have attempted not to cooperate or be involved in this issue," said Gary
Graves, the county's chief operating officer. "We have not agreed to opt in or
out."

Also Tuesday, the board unanimously voted to explore an ordinance that would
require pit bull-type dogs in unincorporated areas of the county be spayed or
neutered. The proposal, by Supervisor Ken Yeager, comes after a 2-year-old boy
was fatally mauled last month by three pit bulls in the East Bay.

The Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Tracy Seipel at 408
275-0140.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday

Senate passes $600 million border security bill

BYLINE: By Jim Abrams Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 98 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate has passed and sent to President Barack Obama a $600
million measure to help border agents and law officers stop the flow of illegal
immigrants and illicit drugs across the Mexican border.

Senators stressed the urgency of improving border security by coming back from
their summer break for a voice vote on the measure today. The House passed the
bill during a special session on Tuesday.

The legislation includes money to add about 1,500 Border Patrol, immigration and
customs officials and to expand the use of unmanned surveillance drones along
the Southwest border.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

Opinion: Changing 14th Amendment won't solve immigration crisis

BYLINE: By Alberto R. Gonzales

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 467 words


Like most Americans, I am a descendant of immigrants and a grateful beneficiary
of the opportunities available to our nation's citizens. My grandparents
emigrated from Mexico in the early 20th century seeking a better life, and they
found it working in the fields and dairy farms of Texas. Diversity is one of the
great strengths of the United States -- diversity fueled by the migration of
ethnicities, cultures and ideas.

Today, however, there is virtually universal agreement that our immigration
process is broken. While security on our southern border has improved in the
past decade, it remains inadequate in a post-9/11 world. Many employers hire
undocumented workers with little concern about prosecution. Thousands of people
cross our borders illegally believing they will not be arrested, expecting
instead to receive benefits and, eventually, amnesty.

Based on what I have observed, most illegal immigrants come to America to
provide for their families, and by most accounts, they contribute to our
economy. Nevertheless, we are a nation of laws. When people break the law with
impunity, it encourages further disobedience.

Some have expressed a desire to amend the 14th Amendment of our Constitution to
discourage undocumented mothers from crossing our borders to give birth to
children derogatorily referred to as "anchor babies," who by law are American
citizens. I do not support such an amendment. Based on principles from my tenure
as a judge, I think constitutional amendments should be reserved for
extraordinary circumstances that we cannot address effectively through
legislation or regulation.

As the nation's former chief law enforcement officer and a citizen who believes
in the rule of law, I cannot condone anyone coming into this country illegally.
However, as a father who wants the best for my own children, I understand why
these parents risk coming to America -- especially when there is little fear of
prosecution.

We need a new immigration policy that complements our national security policy
as well as our economic policy. In a post-9/11 world, we must know who is coming
into this country and why -- we cannot have true security if we do not secure
our borders. Our policy should reinforce respect for the law through effective
enforcement that includes a streamlined deportation process and tougher
penalties on employers that hire undocumented workers. It will take courage to
pass meaningful legislation, but to do less or to take shortcuts places our
security at risk. Americans expect and deserve better of their leaders in
Washington.

Alberto Gonzales served as White House counsel and U.S. attorney general in the
George W. Bush administration. He is currently a professor of political science
at Texas Tech University. He wrote this article for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday

Migrants turn to the sea to enter US illegally

BYLINE: By Elliot Spagat Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 1222 words


SAN DIEGO -- The speedboat is about three miles offshore when a U.S. Customs and
Border Protection agent cuts the engine to drift on the current in quiet
darkness, hoping for the telltale signs of immigrant smuggling -- sulfur fumes
or a motor's whirr.

"It's like trying to find a needle in a haystack, and the haystack is the
Pacific Ocean," agent Tim Feige says minutes before sunrise marks the end to
another uneventful shift.

This is a new frontier for illegal immigrants entering the United States -- a
roughly 400-square-mile ocean expanse that stretches from a bullring on the
shores of Tijuana, Mexico, to suburban Los Angeles. In growing numbers, migrants
are gambling their lives at sea as land crossings become even more arduous and
likely to end in arrest

Sea interdictions and arrests have spiked year-over-year for three years, as
enforcement efforts ramp up to meet the challenge.

While only a small fraction of border arrests are at sea, authorities say
heightened enforcement on land, and a bigger fence, is making the offshore route
more attractive. The number of Border Patrol agents doubled to more than 20,000
since 2003, and President Barack Obama is dispatching the National Guard after
clamor for a crackdown in the desert led to Arizona's tough new immigration law.

"Your options are to go east through the mountains and the desert, or west
through the ocean, or you tunnel underground," said Michael Carney, deputy
special agent in charge of investigations for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in San Diego. "I think they found that going west through the ocean
is probably their best bet."

U.S. agents have arrested 753 suspected illegal immigrants on Southern
California shores and seas between October and Aug. 24, up from 400 the previous
12 months and 230 the year before. They have spotted 85 watercraft since
October, up from 49 during the previous 12 months and 33 the year before.

The smugglers use old, single-engine wooden vessels known in Mexico as "pangas."
They're several feet wide and about 25 feet long. If they are found on U.S.
waters, they're almost invariably smuggling people or drugs.

U.S. authorities have stepped up sea patrols near the border, forcing pangas
loaded with illegal immigrants and sometimes with marijuana farther offshore
with landings farther north. An abandoned vessel was found in November in Laguna
Beach, 85 miles north of Mexico. A boat with 24 people was found 43 miles off
the San Diego coast in May.

Six boats have landed at Camp Pendleton Marine Corps base, more than 50 miles
north of the border, since November, including two that were abandoned. The
base, only a short hike to Interstate 5, has stepped up security.

Authorities believe smugglers put their passengers ashore and return to Mexico,
when possible, to avoid losing their boats and leaving evidence behind. But they
also quickly abandon the boats and run for it if they sense they're about to be
caught.

Smuggling on California waters dates back to the alcohol trade during
Prohibition, but authorities noticed a change in late 2007 when pangas began
traveling without lights at night with up to 25 people packed on open decks. At
up to $5,000 a person -- roughly twice the fee to cross illegally over land --
one overnight trip can generate $100,000.

Some arrests at sea may be a result of heightened enforcement. This year, the
Orange County Sheriff's Department joined in boat patrols on a 32-mile coastal
stretch south of Los Angeles.

Only two immigrants are known to have been killed crossing in U.S. waters, their
boat overturning in the San Diego surf in January. Two months earlier, eight
were rescued atop an overturned boat that was adrift for a day.

Smugglers have been arrested on both sides of the border, with those in the U.S.
being sentenced to a year or two in prison.

In Mexico, the boats launch from a poor fishing village named Popotla, about 15
miles south of the border. It sits between Playa de Rosarito's high-rise hotels
and condos that cater to American tourists and expatriates and next to the
studio where the 1997 blockbuster "Titanic" was filmed.

Squatters live in about two dozen shanties crammed on a hillside on federal
land. There is no electricity, paved road, sewage or garbage collection.

But it is easy to understand why smugglers are drawn to the village. It's out of
view from the highway only 200 yards away. Its crescent-shaped beach invites
gentle waves and it is the only public boat launching spot on a 50-mile stretch
south of the border.

Locals flock to Popotla's two dozen or so restaurants on weekends for a wide
array of fresh catches. Beachgoers drive pickups down a short, steep road and
park right up to the tide.

A restaurant worker, Victor Estrada, said he saw about eight migrants being led
to a boat on the beach one recent night after they waited several hours inside a
sports utility vehicle, but about a dozen other workers and residents insisted
they knew nothing about smugglers.

"You see nothing during the day but fishermen," said Carlos Verdugo, 48,
president of one of Popotla's 11 fishing cooperatives who lives in nearby
Tijuana. "It's possible (the smugglers) come at night. During the day, it's pure
fishing."

Jose Eduardo Montero, public safety chief of Playas de Rosarito, offers a
different view: "The place is invaded by criminals, drug traffickers,
undocumented immigrants, drug dealers. It's all mixed in with the fishing
business."

One January night, Montero said, his officers detained 23 people as they were
preparing for a crossing, including two alleged guides who were arrested on
smuggling charges.

Authorities have failed to pierce the top ranks of smuggling organizations. Boat
drivers offer little information when captured and toss their GPS devices and
radios into the water before agents reach them.

The low-slung boats, when weighed down with people, can float only about one
foot above water, making them difficult to see on radar. Night-vision binoculars
have limited reach.

"They're beating us with low-tech," said ICE's Carney. "I'm not saying they
can't be detected, but I'm saying they're very hard to detect."

On a recent night off San Diego shores, two CBP speedboats prowled the coast. A
CBP helicopter with infrared surveillance equipment was down for repairs, which
happens pretty often, said CBP supervisory agent Mark White, his boat idled with
Tijuana's lights behind him.

"We're one step behind," he says.

White spent much of the night near two unlit beaches that are popular with
smugglers. He described the positioning as educated guesswork. Just because
boats have been landing north, he can't afford to neglect beaches close to the
border. Some migrants dash one mile from Tijuana on Jet Skis, hugging the shore.

"We're trying to smell, we're trying to see, and we're waiting," White said.

This night, like most others, concluded with no arrests or boat sightings.

Agents got lucky the following night, arresting 23 suspected illegal immigrants
from Mexico on a boat about five miles offshore from San Diego's tony La Jolla
area around 3 a.m.

The driver said he was being paid $600 for his work and knew his employer only
as Frausto, according to court records. A passenger who said he agreed to pay a
smuggler $5,000 dropped a GPS device in the ocean as agents arrived, sinking
potentially promising evidence.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this photo taken July 14, 2010, fishermen arrive to shore in the
fishermen village of Popotla, some 15 miles south from the U.S.-Mexico border,
Mexico. Gambling their lives, illegal immigrants are increasingly looking to the
ocean as they consider crossing over land even more arduous and more likely to
end by getting caught. U.S. agents have arrested 736 suspected illegal
immigrants on Southern California shores and seas since October. (AP
Photo/Guillermo Arias)
In this photo taken on July 11, 2010, street vendors walk at the beach in the
fishermen village of Popotla, some 15 miles south from the U.S.-Mexico border,
in Mexico. Gambling their lives, illegal immigrants are increasingly looking to
the ocean as they consider crossing over land even more arduous and more likely
to end by getting caught. U.S. agents have arrested 736 suspected illegal
immigrants on Southern California shores and seas since October. (AP
Photo/Guillermo Arias)
In this photo taken on July 11, 2010, fishermen and visitors gather at the beach
in the fishermen village of Popotla, some 15 miles south from the U.S.-Mexico
border, Mexico. Gambling their lives, illegal immigrants are increasingly
looking to the ocean as they consider crossing over land even more arduous and
more likely to end by getting caught. U.S. agents have arrested 736 suspected
illegal immigrants on Southern California shores and seas since October. (AP
Photo/Guillermo Arias)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents patrol from a speedboat near the
California-Mexico border of the coast of San Diego, Friday, July 30, 2010.
California-Mexico coastline is the new frontier for illegal immigrants entering
the United States a roughly 400-square-mile ocean expanse that stretches from a
bullring on the shores of Tijuana, Mexico, to suburban Los Angeles. (AP
Photo/Chris Carlson)
A U.S. Customs and Border Protection speedboat is silhouetted by the lights of
Tijuana, Mexico, along of the coast of San Diego, Friday, July 30, 2010.
California-Mexico coastline is the new frontier for illegal immigrants entering
the United States a roughly 400-square-mile ocean expanse that stretches from a
bullring on the shores of Tijuana, Mexico, to suburban Los Angeles. (AP
Photo/Chris Carlson)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

'Birth tourism' a tiny portion of immigrant babies

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 613 words


SAN JUAN, Texas -- When Ruth Garcia's twins are born in two months, they'll have
all the rights of U.S. citizens. They and their six brothers and sisters will be
able to vote, apply for federal student loans and even run for president.

Garcia is an illegal immigrant who crossed into the country about 14 years ago,
before her children were born, and the citizenship granted to her children and
millions others like them is at the center of a divisive national debate.

Republicans are pushing for congressional hearings to consider changing the
nation's 14th Amendment to deny such children the automatic citizenship the
Constitution guarantees. They say women like Garcia are taking advantage of the
constitutional amendment and paint a picture of pregnant women rushing across
the border to give birth.

While a recent Pew Hispanic Center study shows 8 percent of the 4.3 million
babies born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one illegal parent, a closer
examination shows that most children of illegal immigrants are born to parents
like Garcia who have made the United States their home for years.

Out of 340,000 babies born to illegal immigrants in the United States in 2008,
85 percent of the parents had been in the country for more than a year, and more
than half for at least five years, Jeffrey Passel, a senior demographer for Pew,
told The Associated Press.

And immigration experts say it's extraordinarily rare for immigrants to come to
the U.S. just so they can have babies and get citizenship. In most cases, they
come for economic reasons and better hospitals, and end up staying and raising
families.

Garcia's husband has been deported and she earns a living selling tamales to
other immigrants who live in fear of being deported from the slapdash,
impoverished colonias that dot the Texas-Mexico border.

"I think that children aren't at fault for having been born here," Garcia said.
"My children always have lived here. They've never gone to another country."

Under current immigration law, Garcia and others like her don't get U.S.
citizenship even though their children are Americans.

With an estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants living in the United States,
the issue strikes a chord with many voters -- people like retired Air Force
nurse and pediatric nurse practitioner Susan Struck, 66, of Double Adobe, Ariz.

"People come over ... and they have babies with U.S. birth certificates, then
they go back over the border with that Social Security number, with that birth
certificate," and have access to public services, she said at a recent event
near the border organized by conservative tea party activists.

Several prominent Republican leaders share Struck's beliefs on the issue. Sen.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina has been a vocal advocate for changing the
Constitution, and he helped the issue gain momentum heading into the midterm
elections.

"Women have traveled from across the world for the purpose of adding a U.S.
passport holder to their family, as far away as China, Turkey and as close as
Mexico," said Jon Feere, legal analyst for the Center for Immigration Studies,
which advocates for strict immigration laws.

Still, changing the Constitution is highly unlikely, legal scholars say.
Measures have been introduced in each two-year congressional session since 2005,
but none has made it out of committee. Constitutional changes require approval
by two-thirds majorities in both chambers of Congress, an impossibility now
because Democrats have the majority in both houses and most oppose such a
measure. Even if Republicans gain power in November and legislation is passed,
an amendment would still need to be ratified by three-fourths of the states.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2010 Saturday

Whitman: Brown 'sacrificing' her illegal-immigrant housekeeper for political
gain

BYLINE: By Juliet Williams Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News

LENGTH: 1170 words


FRESNO -- GOP gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman accused Democratic rival Jerry
Brown on Saturday of orchestrating a scandal over her former illegal immigrant
housekeeper, a charge that prompted Brown to fire back and say Whitman won't
take accountability and is not fit to be governor.

"The real tragedy here is Nicky. After Nov. 2, no one's going to be watching out
for Nicky Diaz," Whitman said, referring to the former housekeeper, and turning
to face Brown directly shortly after the start of their second debate. "And
Jerry, you know you should be ashamed, you and your surrogates ... put her
deportation at risk. You put it out there and you should be ashamed for
sacrificing Nicky Diaz on the altar of your political ambitions."

Brown responded by saying Whitman was trying to evade responsibility.

"Don't run for governor if you can't stand up on your own two feet and say, 'Hey
I made a mistake,'" Brown said in a moment fraught with tension as the two
candidates, neck-and-neck in the polls, turned away from the audience and faced
each other directly. "You have blamed her, blamed me, blamed the left, blamed
the unions. But you don't take accountability."

Whitman is trying to regain momentum with Latino voters after a tumultuous week.
She was forced to explain how she had an illegal immigrant housekeeper -- Nicky
Diaz Santillan -- on the payroll for nine years and, according to her, didn't
know it.

She also is addressing allegations from the housekeeper's attorney that she and
her husband should have suspected the worker's status because of a Social
Security Administration letter mailed to their home in 2003.

The pressure Whitman has been under all week erupted as the candidates took
their fourth question of the debate, which is being sponsored by Univision and
was the first California gubernatorial debate to be broadcast in Spanish. The
exchange came after the candidates faced questions about jobs, public education
and the housing crisis.

"So, this is a very sad situation, and the Nicky that I saw on the press
conference a few days ago was not the Nicky that I knew for nine years," Whitman
said as she began to address the issue that has thrown her campaign off track.
"And you what my first clue was? She kept referring to me as Ms. Whitman. And
for the 10 years, nine years she worked for me, she called me Meg and I called
her Nicky."

After their dramatic exchange, technical problems forced a delay, but they came
back to the topic of illegal immigration when the debate resumed.

Getting control of the controversy and putting it behind her are crucial for
Whitman, who has campaigned on a platform of holding employers accountable for
hiring illegal workers.

"Ms. Whitman obviously didn't crack down on herself," Brown said. "This is a
question of talking out of both sides of her mouth."

Whitman says that after she learned her maid was illegal, she did not turn her
in to immigration authorities. But she rejected her maid's request to help her
pursue citizenship, even though she has said the housekeeper was like a member
of her extended family.

"You're going around this state saying employers must be accountable for hiring
unlawful people, there ought to be raids on businesses, there's no path to
citizenship," Brown said. "This a terrible thing we have -- all these millions
of (illegal) people, but you don't want a path to citizenship."

The billionaire candidate and former chief executive of eBay has worked hard to
court independents and Latinos, who are crucial to the campaign of any
Republican running in a state in which Democrats hold a 13.4 percentage point
edge among registered voters.

She has trained a large share of her campaign account -- $119 million of it from
her personal fortune -- on the Central Valley, which has been hit hard by the
recession and is filled with communities where unemployment afflicts a quarter
of the population or more.

The forced acknowledgment by Whitman and her husband this week that they fired
Nicky Diaz Santillan when she confessed to being an illegal immigrant in June
2009 has thrown off Whitman's controlled campaign messages about reviving the
economy, controlling state spending and reforming education.

Whitman and Brown held their first face-to-face exchange Tuesday at the
University of California, Davis, but the substance from that event was
overwhelmed a day later when the housekeeper allegations surfaced.

Brown and Whitman sparred briefly over immigration during that first debate.
Snatching a line from her Republican primary challenger, Steve Poizner, who had
accused Whitman of being too soft on immigration, Whitman said then that
California and other states need to turn off the magnet of jobs luring illegal
workers to the state.

But that was before the allegations about Whitman's former housekeeper came to
light and altered the dynamics of a race that two recent polls show is a dead
heat.

Immigration issues are expected to play a much larger role in Saturday's debate,
along with job creation, education and water supply issues that are a major
concern for residents of the Central Valley.

Hispanics comprise 37 percent of the state's 38.6 million people and are
expected to account for about 15 percent of voters on Nov. 2, according to a
recent Field Poll.

Many of those voters are relatively new naturalized citizens who don't have any
allegiance to a political party, representing a key opportunity for the
Republican Party, said Harry Pachon, president of The Tomas Rivera Policy
Institute at the University of Southern California.

Along with independents, who account for one in five registered California
voters, Whitman has aggressively courted Hispanics with Spanish-language radio
and television ads. That included spots during 15 games of the World Cup, as
well as billboards and bus-stop posters.

A Public Policy Institute of California poll released this week showed Brown
with only a slight lead over Whitman among Hispanic voters, but the survey was
taken before the housekeeper controversy began dominating the race.

Brown and his supporters also are courting Hispanics, who typically vote
Democratic but are being pursued heavily by Whitman.

The state's largest public employee union, the Service Employees International
Union, is launching an ad campaign coinciding with Saturday's debate. It aims to
keep the housekeeper controversy fresh in the minds of Hispanic voters.

The $5 million Spanish-language media campaign accuses Whitman of saying one
thing in her Spanish-language campaign ads and another when she speaks in
English.

Whitman also will likely be asked to explain a comment she made last month, when
she unflatteringly compared Fresno to Detroit while discussing the poor economy.

"Fresno looks like Detroit. It's awful," she told the editorial board of the San
Jose Mercury News.

California's unemployment rate is 12.4 percent, but it is much higher in many
areas of the Central Valley, which has been hard hit by the foreclosure crisis
and water shortages that have hurt the agriculture industry.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ray Trujillo, a supporter of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Jerry
Brown, joined dozens of other Brown supporters in a demonstration before the
start of the second gubernatorial debate, held at California State University,
Fresno, in Fresno, Calif., Saturday, Oct. 2, 2010. Brown faced off against his
Republican opponent Meg Whitman in the second of three debates.(AP Photo/Rich
Pedroncelli
Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman, left, shakes hands with her
Democratic opponent, Jerry Brown, before the start of their second debate held
at California State University, Fresno in Fresno, Calif., Saturday, Oct. 2,
2010. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli)
California gubernatorial candidates Meg Whitman, left, and Jerry Brown shake
hands at the start of their second debate at Fresno State Saturday, Oct. 2,
2010. Republican candidate Whitman is blaming her Democratic opponent Brown, for
the controversy over an illegal immigrant housekeeper. Early in their second
debate Saturday, Whitman responded to a question about the flap by turning to
Brown and saying he and his surrogates were to blame. Brown fired back, saying
Whitman was evading responsibility: "Don't run for governor if you can't stand
up on your own two feet." (AP Photo/The Fresno Bee, Eric Paul Zamora)
Meg Whitman supporters hold signs outside of the debate hall at California State
University in Fresno, Calif., where Whitman faced off against her Democratic
opponent Jerry Brown, in the second of three debates held Saturday, Oct. 2,
2010. (AP Photo/Rich Pedroncelli)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

For jobless Latinos, illegal immigration can be a sore point

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


SAN LEANDRO -- Javier Gonzalez believes he would have a job today were it not
for illegal immigration.

"I think that illegal immigrants do take jobs away from native workers,
especially out here in the Bay Area," said the 43-year-old son of Mexican
immigrants. "I'm unemployed, but I shouldn't have to be. I'm from the area. I
was born here, and I can't get a job here."

For the jobless, especially those who work in the trades, the thought of
competing against an illegal work force of undocumented immigrants can be a sore
point. Labor market economists have long differed about whether such fears are
grounded in reality.

But a study released Friday by the Pew Hispanic Center adds fuel to the fire,
finding that as the economy slowly recovers, foreign-born workers are taking up
jobs faster than their native-born counterparts. Immigrants, both legal and
illegal, have gained 656,000 jobs since June 2009, the month that federal
economists consider to be the end of the Great Recession. Native-born workers
lost 1.2 million jobs in the same period of economic recovery, according to the
report.

"There are some reasonable explanations," said Rakesh Kochhar, associate
research director of the nonpartisan think tank. "I think the main one would be
that the recession started earlier for foreign-born workers. They were hit hard
earlier in the recession. Now, it seems they are bouncing back quicker."

The study does not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants because such
data is not available, but unauthorized workers are undoubtedly a big part of
the picture, Kochhar said.

Immigrants who come to the United States with limited job skills and educational
backgrounds are typically the most vulnerable when there are volatile changes in
the job market, he said. They also, however, tend to be more flexible in a bad
economic environment, willing to move from one region or occupation to another.

"They are more sensitive to the business cycle," Kochhar said. "They get hit
harder, but they bounce back sooner."

Because they are denied unemployment insurance, undocumented workers are also
more desperate to take whatever job they can find, even if the work is sporadic
and earns them a low wage. The study found that though immigrants found more
jobs in the past year, they were not doing much better financially -- the median
weekly earnings of immigrants has dropped 4.5 percent since summer 2009 while
remaining relatively steady for U.S.-born workers.

Several variables affected the results, including the loss of thousands of
temporary census jobs in the spring and summer. This disproportionately affected
U.S.-born workers because illegal immigrants are disqualified from jobs in the
federal government.

The stagnant construction industry accounted for more than half the 1.2 million
jobs lost by native-born workers. It was also the sector that saw the starkest
difference between foreign-born and U.S.-born workers, especially among those
who identify themselves as Latino.

Latino immigrants gained 98,000 construction jobs from 2009 to 2010, but Latinos
who were born in the United States lost 133,000 construction jobs in the same
period, along with 92,000 jobs in transportation, warehousing, wholesale and
retail trade.

online

Read the Pew Hispanic Center report at www.pewhispanic.org .

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

For jobless, illegal immigration can be a sore point

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 799 words


SAN LEANDRO -- Javier Gonzalez believes he would have a job today were it not
for illegal immigration.

"I think that illegal immigrants do take jobs away from native workers,
especially out here in the Bay Area," said the 43-year-old son of Mexican
immigrants. "I'm unemployed, but I shouldn't have to be. I'm from the area. I
was born here and I can't get a job here."

For the jobless, especially those who work in the trades, the thought of
competing against an illegal work force of undocumented immigrants can be a sore
point. Labor market economists have long differed about whether such fears are
grounded in reality.

But a study released Friday by the Pew Hispanic Center adds fuel to the fire,
finding that as the economy slowly recovers, foreign-born workers are taking up
jobs faster than their native-born counterparts. Immigrants, both legal and
illegal, have gained 656,000 jobs since June 2009, the month that federal
economists consider to be the end of the Great Recession. Native-born workers
lost 1.2 million jobs in the same period of economic recovery, according to the
report.

"There are some reasonable explanations," said Rakesh Kochhar, associate
research director of the nonpartisan think tank. "I think the main one would be
that the recession started earlier for foreign-born workers. They were hit hard
earlier in the recession. Now, it seems they are bouncing back quicker."

The study does not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants because such
data is not available, but unauthorized workers are undoubtedly a big part of
the picture, Kochhar said.

Immigrants who come to the United States with limited job skills and educational
backgrounds are typically the most vulnerable when there are volatile changes in
the job market, he said. They also, however, tend to be more flexible in a bad
economic environment, willing to move from one region or occupation to another.

"They are more sensitive to the business cycle," Kochhar said. "They get hit
harder, but they bounce back sooner."

Because they are denied unemployment insurance, undocumented workers are also
more desperate to take whatever job they can find, even if the work is sporadic
and earns them a low wage. The study found that though immigrants found more
jobs in the past year, they were not doing much better financially -- the median
weekly earnings of immigrants has dropped 4.5 percent since summer 2009 while
remaining relatively steady for U.S.-born workers.

Several variables affected the results, including the loss of thousands of
temporary census jobs in the spring and summer. This disproportionately affected
U.S.-born workers, because illegal immigrants are disqualified from jobs in the
federal government.

The stagnant construction industry accounted for more than half the 1.2 million
jobs lost by native-born workers. It was also the sector that saw the starkest
difference between foreign-born and U.S.-born workers, especially among those
who identify themselves as Latino.

Latino immigrants gained 98,000 construction jobs from 2009 to 2010, but Latinos
who were born in the United States lost 133,000 construction jobs in the same
period, along with 92,000 jobs in transportation, warehousing, wholesale and
retail trade.

The study may help confirm and challenge beliefs of those who hold strong views
on immigration, but Kochhar cautioned against drawing easy conclusions.

"There are so many things, really, that we don't know," he said.

Born in San Francisco, the unemployed Gonzalez attended community college to
obtain a communication degree, paying out of his own pocket, but couldn't find a
job in that field. His father was a migrant farmworker who moved to California
from Mexico in the 1950s, though Gonzalez is not sure how he was able to get in.

"He's never really given me the exact story, the details of what path he took,"
Gonzalez said.

The majority of his American family members went into municipal trash
collection. Gonzalez has also spent years working in labor-intensive jobs, but
today finds most of those positions unavailable. He considers illegal
immigration a chief culprit, though he says finding a constructive solution is
difficult.

Gonzalez is not alone in his thinking. Another study released by the Pew
Hispanic Center on Thursday found that Latinos, though traditionally sympathetic
to the challenges faced by illegal immigrants, have increasingly mixed feelings
about the issue.

The national survey of about 1,400 Latino adults found that just 29 percent felt
that illegal or undocumented immigration had a positive impact on Latinos
already living in the United States. In contrast, half of those who took a
similar survey three years ago said the impact of illegal immigrants was
positive.

online

Read the Pew Hispanic Center report at www.pewhispanic.org .

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Arizona

Nine arrested in bust of human smuggling cell

Authorities have dismantled a major cell of a human smuggling ring that may be
responsible for the transportation of thousands of illegal immigrants from the
U.S.-Mexico border to Phoenix and other parts of the country, investigators said
Wednesday.

Nine people were arrested Wednesday after a yearlong investigation. They have
not yet been charged but are accused of picking up illegal immigrants after they
crossed the border by foot, and taking them to what are known as drop houses in
Phoenix before they were distributed to other parts of the country.

Authorities say the group was led by a 29-year-old Mexican man who told them his
name is Mark Rodriguez-Banks.

Washington, D.C.

Hubble Space Telescope's replacement cost soars

The cost of NASA's replacement for the Hubble Space Telescope is giving new
meaning to the word astronomical, growing another $1.5 billion, according to a
new internal NASA study released Wednesday.

NASA's explanation: We're better rocket scientists than accountants. Management
and others didn't notice that key costs for the telescope weren't included
during a program review in July 2008, officials said.

The study says in the best case scenario it will now cost about $6.5 billion to
launch and run the new telescope.

In other news


     ·    Rep. Michele Bachmann, R-Minn., a tea party favorite, is dropping her
          bid for a leadership position in the upcoming Republican-controlled
          House.


From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday

Berkeley won't impound cars for 30 days

BYLINE: By Doug Oakley Berkeley Voice

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


Illegal immigrants pulled over for minor traffic violations in Berkeley will no
longer have their cars impounded for 30 days, thanks to a new police policy
here.

Berkeley police Chief Michael Meehan agreed to the change last month and is now
training officers on the new policy, he said.

City Manager Phil Kamlarz said in a memo to city staff that "This policy will
prevent those who simply cannot get a driver's license, in many cases due to
their immigration status, from having their vehicles impounded ..."

Meehan said the new policy was not necessarily designed to make it easier on
illegal immigrants, but will benefit anyone who "never got a license for
whatever reason" and is designed to "balance safety and a reasonable level of
law enforcement."

The new policy gives officers discretion whether to impound a car for 30 days, a
situation which can cost the car's owner about $2,500 in fees. Cars still will
be towed at the officers discretion but not held for 30 days.

Members of Berkeley Organizing Congregations for Action said they have been
lobbying the police department for two years for the change to make it easier on
some of their members who are illegal immigrants. California requires proof of
legal presence in the United States to get a driver's license.

"The first thing we had in mind is that there are a lot of people who need to
drive to work, take their children to the hospital or to school," said Mario
Ibarra, a member of the congregations.

"Those people should not be afraid to drive without a license." In addition to
changing the policy, Ibarra said Meehan has pledged to train his officers and
employees to be more sensitive to the needs of illegal immigrants who need to
drive but technically cannot.

"He is telling the police they need to be nice to people if they don't have
licenses," Ibarra said.

"We've had people caught in this situation where their car is impounded and they
went to the police department to see what they could do and they were told it's
not a police problem, it's a DMV problem and the DMV said it's not their problem
it's a police problem."

Ibarra said a lot of work in convincing the chief to change the policy had to do
with an interpretation of state law that, depending on how it is read, may or
may not require police to impound cars driven by unlicensed drivers.

Michael McBride, executive director of the congregations group, said the failure
of the federal government to address immigration reform has cities like Berkeley
doing it themselves.

"The lack of reform on the national level has required communities to have a
conversation about how they want to live and how they can provide a quality of
life for their constituents," McBride said.

"We place a high value on everyone being here." Meehan said he agreed to the
change after reviewing a similar policy in San Francisco and after hearing from
City Council members.

"I looked at the policy in San Francisco and they just felt people were being
treated unduly harshly for minor traffic offenses, and I couldn't disagree,"
Meehan said.

"If someone has never been arrested, but got stopped and lost their car for a
month I felt that was harsh and did not make our city any safer."

Meehan said the decision had nothing to do with fees charged while a car is
impounded since that money does not go to the city.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

California Supreme Court upholds in-state tuition for undocumented students

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz and Lisa Krieger Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; Crime; News; National;
State

LENGTH: 768 words


Salvaging financial aid that might keep thousands of undocumented students in
California's colleges and universities, the state Supreme Court on Monday upheld
a 9-year-old law that enables illegal immigrants to pay the same in-state
tuition as other California residents, rejecting arguments that the policy
unfairly discriminates against students from other states who pay higher fees
yet are U.S. citizens.

In a unanimous ruling, the justices concluded that a 2001 law that allows
in-state tuition aid to undocumented students does not run afoul of federal
immigration laws restricting public education benefits to illegal immigrants.
Stoking the debate over illegal immigration, the state's high court emphasized
that it is not up to the judiciary to address whether such policies aggravate
illegal immigration problems in California and elsewhere.

"This court does not make policy," Justice Ming Chin wrote for the court.
"Whether Congress's prohibition or the Legislature's exemption is good policy is
not for us to say."

The case has attracted widespread attention across the country as a legal
battleground over illegal immigration, and the ruling is being closely watched
because at least nine other states have similar laws that are expected to come
under legal attack by groups that consider such policies to be government
encouragement of illegal immigration. And the case may not be over -- foes of
the California law vowed Monday to appeal the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court.

There are no firm numbers on how many undocumented students benefit from the
state law, but critics estimate that tens of thousands are paying the lower
in-state tuition, although just a few hundred are in the UC system. But the
ruling had sweeping ramifications for such students' ability to afford
California's increasingly pricey higher education, as well as for out-of-state
students who were seeking reimbursement for their higher costs from the
cash-strapped UC, CSU and community college systems.

The difference between in-state and out-of-state tuition can be significant.
Full-time out-of-state students pay nearly $5,000 a year more to attend state
universities and close to $23,000 more for UC campuses.

Some students viewed the Supreme Court's ruling as a positive sign.

"Undocumented students are as much a part of the state as any other student,"
said Claudia Magana, 20, a UC Santa Cruz student majoring in Latin American
studies. "They've attended the same high schools and middle schools. They've
lived in the same communities. It's fortunate, and I'm glad we don't have to
worry about it anymore. It now reinforces that they are members of our
community."

In 2005, a group of non-California residents sued in Yolo County to block the
state law, arguing that it violates a 12-year-old federal law that bars states
from providing benefits to illegal immigrants based on their residence. A state
appeals court sided with their argument, declaring the California law
unconstitutional, but the state Supreme Court overturned that ruling.

Among other things, the Supreme Court said residency is not the deciding factor
in providing the benefit to undocumented students, noting that the law requires
a student to attend a California high school for at least three years to qualify
for the in-state tuition, as well as satisfy other criteria. The court observed,
for example, that most UC students who qualify for the in-state tuition
exemption are not illegal immigrants but are legal U.S. residents who may have
attended California high schools for three years and moved elsewhere.

Kris Kobach, the lead attorney for out-of-state students suing to block the law,
called the decision "superficial" and said he is confident that the U.S. Supreme
Court will consider the issue.

"The court seemed to be rushing to its result without fully addressing all the
questions necessary to get there," said Kobach, secretary of state-elect in
Kansas and an attorney for a national immigration reform group.

Ethan Schulman, who represented the UC system in the case, said it was unlikely
that the U.S. Supreme Court would accept the case, saying the ruling would be
influential in deciding similar legal challenges in other states, such as Texas
and Nebraska.

Meanwhile, officials in the UC and CSU systems praised the ruling for protecting
the state's ability to provide aid to immigrant students trying to attend their
schools.

"Through their hard work and perseverance, these students have earned the
opportunity to attend UC," UC President Mark Yudof said in a statement.

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com or 408-286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The view of the Tower Hall, the most recognizable building at San Jose
State University in San Jose, photographed on April 12, 2007. Tower Hall is one
of the oldest buildings on campus. (Joanne Ho-Young Lee/Mercury News)
Vistors enter through Sather Gate on Saturday, April 17, 2010 at Cal Day, an
annual open house event on the UC Berkeley campus. (Lane Hartwell/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

Illegal immigrant student body president hopes to increase awareness

BYLINE: By Garance Burke Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; Education; News; State

LENGTH: 467 words


FRESNO -- The popular student body president at Fresno State has publicly
revealed what he had long sought to keep a secret: He's an illegal immigrant.

Pedro Ramirez, 23, previously told campus administrators in confidence that he
had been concerned about going public about his status.

But that changed Tuesday after The Collegian, a campus newspaper at the largest
university in California's prolific farming region, disclosed his status after
receiving an anonymous e-mail.

"I don't want this issue to be about me," Ramirez said Wednesday. "This is a
big, big issue that should have been addressed a long time ago. My goal is to
bring awareness to that."

Ramirez was expected to appear Friday at a campus rally in support of the
federal DREAM Act, which would create a path to citizenship for young people
living in the country illegally who attend college or join the military.

Meanwhile, student leaders were preparing for the immigration issue to surface
Wednesday at an Associated Students Inc. meeting.

Ramirez, who has a dual major in political science and agricultural economics,
was brought to the U.S. from a small community in Jalisco, Mexico, when he was
3. He went on to become valedictorian of his high school class in nearby Tulare
County, where he prepared for his "long road in higher education," according to
his website. He has said he didn't know he was an illegal immigrant until he
began applying to colleges.

"As a college student, I took it upon myself to build my future and work toward
my goals in life," Ramirez said on the website, where he details his dream to be
a civil rights attorney. "Hopefully, the future is looking good, I am trying to
build myself up and we will see."

Ramirez told Fresno State officials about his status earlier this year, only
after he won the election to serve as president of the local chapter of
Associated Students Inc.

Administrators verified he would break no campus or student leadership rules by
winning the position, but encouraged him to take on the role as a volunteer
because he couldn't legally accept payment, said Paul Oliaro, university vice
president for student affairs.

"I think it does suggest that even though a student may be undocumented, they
have a lot to contribute to the campus and come with skills, knowledge and a
willingness to serve," Oliaro said.

David Schecter, chairman of the political science department who is Ramirez's
adviser at the school, said Ramirez was a thoughtful, unassuming leader who was
serious about student government.

Ramirez seemed unfazed by the controversy as they sat together at an athletics
advisory council meeting about the risk of concussions in field sports, Schecter
said, adding that no one mentioned the immigration issue.

"Regardless of the uproar, he is still doing his job," Schecter said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Union reportedly helped housekeeper confront Whitman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- The California Nurses Association helped the illegal immigrant
former housekeeper of billionaire Meg Whitman make her story public, a
revelation that helped sink the gubernatorial hopes of the former eBay chief
executive, according to a report published Tuesday in the San Francisco
Chronicle.

Nicky Diaz Santillan, whose story knocked Whitman's tightly orchestrated
campaign off message when she came forward in September, reached out for help
from the union because she believed she was unfairly fired by Whitman, the
newspaper reported, citing people who were close to the matter but would only
speak if their names were not used.

Diaz Santillan contacted a friend who knew a member of the nurses union,
according to the Chronicle. The union then put the Mexican-born housekeeper in
touch with an immigration attorney and celebrity attorney Gloria Allred, who
appeared with her at a Los Angeles news conference in September.

Diaz Santillan, who lived in Union City while working for Whitman, said Whitman
knew she was an illegal immigrant during her nine years as a maid. She and
Allred also produced a 2003 Social Security document saying the government
number given by Diaz Santillan did not match her name, a tip-off that she might
be in the country illegally.

The letter included a handwritten note from Whitman's husband, a Stanford
neurosurgeon, directing the housekeeper to check it out.

Whitman said she fired the maid when she learned of her illegal status in June
2009, just months after Whitman had formed an exploratory committee to run for
governor. She blamed the campaign of Democratic Gov.-elect Jerry Brown and his
union supporters for exposing her.

Nurses union executive director Rose Ann DeMoro declined to comment Tuesday to
The Associated Press on whether the union helped Diaz Santillan. But in an
interview with the AP and in a public letter addressed to Diaz Santillan
published last week, she praised the illegal immigrant for her courage in coming
forward.

DeMoro said the union's goal is to help working women and advocate for those who
don't have a voice.

"So it's natural that if someone would come to us for help, that we would help
them," she said.

She said Diaz Santillan helped highlight "the arrogance of wealth." Whitman set
spending records in her race, giving her campaign $144 million from her personal
fortune.

"It is really just a striking thing. She's one of the richest women in the world
and (Diaz Santillan is) someone who is essentially living paycheck to paycheck
on survival mode," DeMoro told the AP on Tuesday.

A campaign adviser to Whitman, Rob Stutzman, was traveling Tuesday and did not
immediately return an e-mail message seeking comment.

Whitman hired Diaz Santillan through an agency and paid her $23 an hour for 15
hours per week.

The nurse's union backed Brown's candidacy and campaigned vigorously against
Whitman, following her to events with a character it dubbed "Queen Meg."

The newspaper said the housekeeper was emotionally and financially devastated by
her sudden firing by Whitman in 2009, for whom she had worked since 2000.
Afterward, Diaz Santillan had asked Whitman for help finding someone who could
help her gain legal status.

Whitman refused and the former housekeeper claimed Whitman later left her a
voicemail message, warning her: "You don't know me, and I don't know you."

Diaz Santillan and her immigration attorney are now addressing her status with
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

------

Associated Press writer Juliet Williams contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday

Is the Republican brand going extinct in California?

BYLINE: By Steven Harmon Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 886 words


SACRAMENTO -- Republicans could be on the verge of sinking into political
oblivion in California, especially if they continue to take hard-line positions
on illegal immigration, experts say.

Elections across the state this month left Republicans shut out of all statewide
offices. Republicans also failed to gain any new congressional seats and lost
one in the Assembly.

The failure was in stark contrast to gains made by Republicans across the
country, sending the state GOP into a period of self-reflection over the future
solvency of the party.

"We have a deep problem, not one solved easily," said Duf Sundheim, a former
chairman of the state GOP. "We'll have to make significant changes if we're to
be players in California again. We need to change the way we interact, have a
little more humility in the way we present our positions. It requires us to make
a fundamental change to our approach."

Latino backlash against Republicans drove the debacle, as illegal immigration
occupied a central place in the gubernatorial campaign -- first in the GOP
primary when Steve Poizner pushed Meg Whitman to the right by accusing her of
being insufficiently hard line. Even Gov. Pete Wilson, the face of the unpopular
1994 ballot measure Prop. 187, made an appearance in a Whitman ad, saying she
would be "tough as nails" on illegal immigrants.

But the backbreaker for Whitman, and, it turned out, the entire Republican
ticket, came after her former housekeeper, Nicky Diaz Santillan, an illegal
immigrant with roots in Union City, emerged with her story of being "treated
like garbage" by Whitman.

"Because of Whitman's ridiculous carrying on with her housekeeper, Latinos were
highly alienated," said Tony Quinn, co-editor of the California Target Book,
which analyzes voting trends in the state. "They see Republicans as pandering to
what they view as anti-Latino policies and attitudes that don't draw a
distinction between illegal immigrants and ordinary Latinos."

Latinos ultimately flocked in droves to Gov.-elect Jerry Brown, a Democrat who
captured 80 percent of the Latino vote compared with 15 percent for Whitman,
according to a USC-Los Angeles Times postelection poll.

The trends for Republicans aren't forgiving, either. With California and the
rest of the country amid the strongest immigrant wave in a century, voters are
increasingly less white and more prone to support politicians who are sensitive
to the needs of new populations, experts said.

Latinos, who made up 22 percent of the midterm turnout in California,
increasingly see the Republican brand as toxic. More than one-third of Latinos
said they would never consider voting Republican, while another 31 percent said
Republicans should move closer to the center and nominate less conservative
candidates.

At the same time, 50 percent of registered Republicans said candidates should
stick to core Republican principles and nominate "true" conservatives, while 36
percent of Republicans prefer less conservative nominees.

A wide gap exists between Latinos and Republicans on immigration issues. Asked
whether illegal immigrants should be granted the chance to become citizens if
they fulfill certain obligations such as paying a fine, 41 percent of
Republicans responded yes, compared with 77 percent of Latinos and 69 percent
Democrats.

And while 57 percent of Latinos say government should protect the rights of
racial and ethnic minorities, only 40 percent of Republicans agreed.

Still, Republican Party leaders say the GOP's main objective should be to
improve its message rather than abandon its core position on illegal immigration
-- which is opposing a pathway to citizenship for those who have entered the
country illegally.

"No doubt illegal immigration is a major roadblock for us," said Tom Del
Beccaro, the vice chairman of the state GOP who is expected to take over the
party chairmanship in elections next year. "But we need to work with Latinos on
issues like education and jobs. Do we need to deal with immigration head-on?
Yes. We still believe it's an issue of national security, economics and
government reform.

"But as long as we stay focused on the most difficult aspect of it, we can't
make progress," he added. "We can't make this so it's targeted at one particular
group. We have to explain the broader context."

Republicans will have to stop mirroring their more conservative brethren around
the country, said Kevin Spillane, a Republican consultant who helped run GOP
attorney general candidate Steve Cooley's campaign. Cooley conceded the race
Wednesday to San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris; the long-undecided
race was the sole holdout from the Nov. 2 election, and the announcement
officially gave Democrats a sweep of all statewide offices.

"One of the challenges facing Republicans is that California is more moderate
than the rest of the country," Spillane said. "We need to establish an identity
that's different than the national identity."

It will take more than image makeovers to be taken seriously in a state that may
be becoming intractably Democratic, said Manuel Pastor, an American Studies
professor at the University of Southern California.

"Republicans think they have an image problem with the Latino community," he
said, "but it looks like they have a policy problem."

Contact Steven Harmon at 916-441-2101.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 26, 2010 Friday

Is the Republican brand going extinct in California?

BYLINE: By Steven Harmon Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 887 words


SACRAMENTO -- Republicans could be on the verge of sinking into political
oblivion in California, especially if they continue to take hard-line positions
on illegal immigration, experts say.

Elections across the state this month left Republicans shut out of all statewide
offices. Republicans also failed to gain any new congressional seats and lost
one in the Assembly.

The failure was in stark contrast to gains made by Republicans across the
country, sending the state GOP into a period of self-reflection over the future
solvency of the party.

"We have a deep problem, not one solved easily," said Duf Sundheim, a former
chairman of the state GOP. "We'll have to make significant changes if we're to
be players in California again. We need to change the way we interact, have a
little more humility in the way we present our positions. It requires us to make
a fundamental change to our approach."

Latino backlash against Republicans drove the debacle, as illegal immigration
occupied a central place in the gubernatorial campaign -- first in the GOP
primary when Steve Poizner pushed Meg Whitman to the right by accusing her of
being insufficiently hard line. Even Gov. Pete Wilson, the face of the unpopular
1994 ballot measure Prop. 187, made an appearance in a Whitman ad, saying she
would be "tough as nails" on illegal immigrants.

But the backbreaker for Whitman, and, it turned out, the entire Republican
ticket, came after her former housekeeper, Nicky Diaz Santillan, an illegal
immigrant with roots in Union City, emerged with her story of being "treated
like garbage" by Whitman.

"Because of Whitman's ridiculous carrying on with her housekeeper, Latinos were
highly alienated," said Tony Quinn, co-editor of the California Target Book,
which analyzes voting trends in the state. "They see Republicans as pandering to
what they view as anti-Latino policies and attitudes that don't draw a
distinction between illegal immigrants and ordinary Latinos."

Latinos ultimately flocked in droves to Gov.-elect Jerry Brown, a Democrat who
captured 80 percent of the Latino vote compared with 15 percent for Whitman,
according to a USC-Los Angeles Times postelection poll.

The trends for Republicans aren't forgiving, either. With California and the
rest of the country amid the strongest immigrant wave in a century, voters are
increasingly less white and more prone to support politicians who are sensitive
to the needs of new populations, experts said.

Latinos, who made up 22 percent of the midterm turnout in California,
increasingly see the Republican brand as toxic. More than one-third of Latinos
said they would never consider voting Republican, while another 31 percent said
Republicans should move closer to the center and nominate less conservative
candidates.

At the same time, 50 percent of registered Republicans said candidates should
stick to core Republican principles and nominate "true" conservatives, while 36
percent of Republicans prefer less conservative nominees.

A wide gap exists between Latinos and Republicans on immigration issues. Asked
whether illegal immigrants should be granted the chance to become citizens if
they fulfill certain obligations such as paying a fine, 41 percent of
Republicans responded yes, compared with 77 percent of Latinos and 69 percent
Democrats.

And while 57 percent of Latinos say government should protect the rights of
racial and ethnic minorities, only 40 percent of Republicans agreed.

Still, Republican Party leaders say the GOP's main objective should be to
improve its message rather than abandon its core position on illegal immigration
-- which is opposing a pathway to citizenship for those who have entered the
country illegally.

"No doubt illegal immigration is a major roadblock for us," said Tom Del
Beccaro, the vice chairman of the state GOP who is expected to take over the
party chairmanship in elections next year. "But we need to work with Latinos on
issues like education and jobs. Do we need to deal with immigration head-on?
Yes. We still believe it's an issue of national security, economics and
government reform.

"But as long as we stay focused on the most difficult aspect of it, we can't
make progress," he added. "We can't make this so it's targeted at one particular
group. We have to explain the broader context."

Republicans will have to stop mirroring their more conservative brethren around
the country, said Kevin Spillane, a Republican consultant who helped run GOP
attorney general candidate Steve Cooley's campaign. Cooley conceded the race
Wednesday to San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris; the long-undecided
race was the sole holdout from the Nov. 2 election, and the announcement
officially gave Democrats a sweep of all statewide offices.

"One of the challenges facing Republicans is that California is more moderate
than the rest of the country," Spillane said. "We need to establish an identity
that's different than the national identity."

It will take more than image makeovers to be taken seriously in a state that may
be becoming intractably Democratic, said Manuel Pastor, an American Studies
professor at the University of Southern California.

"Republicans think they have an image problem with the Latino community," he
said, "but it looks like they have a policy problem."

Contact Steven Harmon at 916-441-2101.

Infobox1

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

Dec. 4 Readers letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 1366 words


Reader misguided on immigration's effects

I am writing in response to Joe Sindorf (Letters, Nov. 27). The perception that
the state's fiscal woes are the result of "catering to illegal immigration" is
convenient but sadly misinformed. The state's entire economy would collapse
without the hard work of undocumented immigrants. Undocumented farmworkers, who
make up 65 to 80 percent of the agricultural labor force, hold up the state's
lucrative agricultural economy while surviving on less than minimum wage.

Most undocumented immigrants are economic refugees because their own country's
economy has been devastated by the U.S.-backed North American Free Trade
Agreement, or NAFTA. Punitive border enforcement schemes have done little to
stem the tide of hungry people looking for work and survival.

What's required is comprehensive immigration and NAFTA reform. Comprehensive
immigration reform alone would generate an increase of $1.5 trillion in
additional GDP over 10 years.

Ann Aurelia López

Professor, Author, and Director Center for Farmworker Families Felton

Giving credit where credit is due

Steve Jursa (Letters, Nov. 24) contends that George W. Bush should "man up,"
take responsibility for the 9/11 attacks and not receive credit for thwarting
similar plots during his time in office. Does history blame Woodrow Wilson for
the Lusitania, Franklin Roosevelt for Pearl Harbor, or Bill Clinton for Oklahoma
City? The "manning up" part comes after the attack. Whether or not you agree
with the subsequent wars, Bush can rightfully claim that his policies kept
American soil safe from a second terrorist catastrophe.

The bigger issue may be whether or not his decisions after 9/11 contribute to
the eventual defeat of our enemy. History will tell, but I wouldn't count on
George W. Bush receiving the same accolades as FDR in that category.

Mark Allendorf

San Mateo

Hard to cheer if you don't know when

I must agree with Bob Saint (Letters, Nov. 28) that much of the problem with
getting the Stanford football stadium filled more completely lies in when the
games start. If Stanford wants people coming in from San Jose, San Francisco and
other points, it should have a set game time for each home game (i.e., 12:30 or
1 p.m.) as well as make it in the daytime only. Night games only discourage
those far away from attending due to the long and uncomfortable late ride home.
I also think that the TV people need to work out the schedules with Stanford
beforehand in order to avoid the TBA notices, which really should be easy now
that Stanford has attained good footing up the conference ladder.

Sue Evans

San Jose

Want more flights? Stay open longer

I read with interest about San Jose officials lamenting the lack of air traffic
at San Jose Airport. If these people ever try to fly out of the East Coast or
even the Midwest, they will know there is no good schedule because of no night
operations at San Jose. Overseas? You can forget about it. If the San Jose
officials continue to believe the world is flat (no 24-hour operation), then we
should not waste any more tax dollars on an overdressed crop-dusting airport.

Henry Ku

Milpitas

Standing up for a maligned minority

Thank you for your article (Page 1B, Nov. 28) on Sikhism. It shines a light on
this wrongly-maligned community, who, on proper reflection, are the perfect new
Americans. Their cultural traditions are in perfect harmony with American
ideals: Hard work, honesty, service to the community and family. While the sword
and dagger are rightly symbols of their faith, they represent defiance in the
face of oppression that has plagued them across their history. Since repetition
is the mother of knowledge, this is an article that should be repeated in your
pages frequently.

Bill Roth

San Jose

Corporate profits must equal new jobs

The Mercury News (Editorial, Nov. 26), voicing deep concern about the record
corporate profits being at an annual rate of $ 1.659 trillion not being used to
create jobs, points well to the state of corporate greed. Yet the gargantuan
profits attained through the often guileless American consumer and taxpayer
happily cushion the corporate executives, further insulating the richest 1
percent from the rest of the Americans.

Beyond this exclusion of the poor and the "great decoupling of corporate profits
from jobs," as written by Robert Reich, such a divergent business climate ruins
global ecology surreptitiously.

Much as the economic stimulus plan has already created more jobs in 2010 than
during the entire Bush years, corporations should be morally if not legally
required to shore up the common folk by giving opportunity to those who are
willing to work hard.

Madhu Raghavan

Aptos

Look to natural energy resources for cash

Anita Goldwasser (Letters, Dec. 3) suggests terminating the war in Afghanistan
as a way of fixing the deficit.

While we are at it, let's exploit the abundant energy resources in America, such
as oil, natural gas and nuclear energy. By doing so, we would redirect the flow
of trillions of petro-dollars from the Middle East into our own economy.

Philip Schirm

Los Gatos

Sale of HP site a sign of company's decline

As a retired HP employee, I find it cruelly ironic that HP is selling their
Cupertino site to Apple (Page 1A, Nov. 25). HP used to be considered Silicon
Valley royalty when it came to technological, product, and organizational
innovation. They have clearly ceded their crown for technological and product
innovation to Apple, among others.

Unfortunately, beginning with Carly Fiorina, HP has been innovative only in the
areas of outsourcing and off-shoring, thus precluding their need for the
Cupertino site. Currently, both companies are enjoying good financial results.
Time will tell which strategy leads to longer-term corporate and financial
success.

Chuck Totman

Saratoga

Giving some thanks for the Turkey Trot

We represent the three foundations that are recipients of the Applied Materials
Silicon Valley 2010 Turkey Trot and we appreciate the efforts of Applied
Materials, the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, friends and families that walked
or ran the trot this year. The race grew from 10,600 participants last year to
14,500 this year and has helped contribute more than $1.6 million since its
inception.

The race, the dream child of Carl and Leslee Guardino and Mike Splinter, helps
three area charities to provide food, housing and health care. Whether you ran
in costume, as part of the Fittest Firm, Quickest Cop, CEO Challenge, your kids
ran in the Kid's Fun Run, you brought food for the Can Do Challenge, or watched
the Elite racers before you went off for turkey, we hope you had as much fun as
we did.

Kathy Jackson

CEO, Second Harvest Food Bank

Kathleen King

Executive Director, Santa Clara Family Health Foundation

Raise taxes on rich to save lives

Extending the tax cuts for the wealthy is bad economics for reasons in addition
to the ones listed by the Mercury News (Editorial, Dec. 2). According to
research cited by Norman Anderson in his book, "Emotional Longevity," the
greater the gap between the rich and the poor, the more everyone's health
suffers. Where inequality in wealth increases, mortality rates rise for all
income groups. If our leaders are really interested in curbing health care
costs, one of the most ethical and practical steps they can take is to stop
supporting policies that increase the wealth distribution gap in the United
States.

Cyndi Franks

Los Gatos

Wozniak is truly a Silicon Valley original

Thanks to Mike Cassidy for highlighting Steve Wozniak's career. I wrote a
children's book about Woz because he's an inspiring role model: Creative,
hardworking and generous. Plus kids love his wacky sense of humor!

Martha Kendall

Los Gatos

Veteran: John McCain is just plain wrong

Shame on Sen. John McCain and his like-minded colleagues for their stand on the
"don't ask, don't tell" policy. I'm a heterosexual World War II veteran who
favors civil unions and equal rights for gays and lesbians rather than
traditional marriage. Yet these are men and women who are willing and able to
offer their skills (and lives) in their service to our country. They should be
allowed to do so without fear of retaliation. For shame, McCain.

Shel Lefton

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday

New-look Congress will shift debate

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 924 words


WASHINGTON -- The end of the year means a turnover of House control from
Democratic to Republican and, with it, Congress' approach to immigration.

In a matter of weeks, Congress will go from trying to help young, illegal
immigrants become legal to debating whether children born to parents who are in
the country illegally should continue to enjoy automatic U.S. citizenship.

Such a hardened approach -- and the rhetoric certain to accompany it -- should
resonate with the GOP faithful who helped swing the House in Republicans' favor.
But it also could further hurt the GOP in its endeavor to grab a large enough
share of the growing Latino vote to win the White House and the Senate majority
in 2012.

Legislation to test interpretations of the 14th Amendment as granting
citizenship to children of illegal immigrants will emerge early next session.
That is likely to be followed by attempts to force employers to use a
still-developing Web system, dubbed E-Verify, to check that all of their
employees are in the U.S. legally.

There could be proposed curbs on federal spending in cities that don't do enough
to identify people who are in the country illegally and attempts to reduce the
numbers of legal immigrants. Democrats ended the year failing for a second time
to win passage of the Dream Act, which would have given hundreds of thousands of
young illegal immigrants a chance at legal status.

House Republicans will try to fill the immigration reform vacuum left by
Democrats with legislation designed to send illegal immigrants packing and deter
others from trying to come to the U.S.

Democrats, who will still control the Senate, will be playing defense against
harsh immigration enforcement measures, mindful of their need to keep on good
footing with Hispanic voters. But a slimmer majority and an eye on 2012 may
prevent Senate Democrats from bringing to the floor any sweeping immigration
bill, or even a limited one that hints at providing legal status to people in
the country illegally.

President Barack Obama could be a wild card.

He'll have at his disposal his veto power should a bill denying citizenship to
children of illegal immigrants make it to his desk. But Obama also has made
cracking down on employers a key part of his administration's immigration
enforcement tactics.

Hispanic voters and their allies will look for Obama to broker a deal on
immigration as he did on tax cuts and health care. After the Dream Act failed in
the Senate this month, Obama said his administration would not give up on the
measure. "At a minimum we should be able to get Dream done. So I'm going to go
back at it," he said.

The president has taken heavy hits in Spanish-language and ethnic media for
failing to keep his promise to address immigration promptly and taking it off
the agenda last summer. His administration's continued deportations of
immigrants -- a record 393,000 in the 2010 fiscal year -- have also made tenuous
his relationship with Hispanic voters.

John Morton, who oversees Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in a recent
conference call that there are no plans to change the agency's enforcement
tactics, which are focused on immigrants who commit crimes but also have led to
detaining and deporting many immigrants who have not committed crimes.

The agency also will continue to expand Secure Communities, the program that
allows immigration officials to check fingerprints of all people booked into
jail to see if they are in the country illegally. Both illegal immigrants and
residents can end up being deported under the program, which the Homeland
Security Department hopes to expand nationwide by 2013.

Many of those attending a recent gathering of conservative Hispanics in
Washington warned that another round of tough laws surrounded by ugly
anti-immigrant discussions could doom the GOP's 2012 chances.

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a possible 2012 candidate, cited Meg
Whitman's failed gubernatorial bid in California despite her high spending. When
22 percent of the electorate is Latino, candidates can't win without a vigorous
presence in the Hispanic community and a "message that is understandable and
involves respect," Gingrich said. Even so, Gingrich was unwilling to call on his
fellow Republican senators to drop their opposition to the Dream Act, saying the
legislation should not have been considered without giving lawmakers a chance to
amend it.

The next Congress will be populated with many newcomers elected on a platform of
tougher immigration enforcement. They'll have ready ears in Republican Rep.
Lamar Smith of Texas, who will chair the House Judiciary Committee, and Rep.
Steve King of Iowa, who is expected to chair the committee's immigration
subcommittee.

That's a recipe for more measures aimed at immigration enforcement, including
requiring businesses to use E-Verify rather than eyeballing paper documents to
check workers' citizenship and legal residency status.

"I've already told the business community it's going to happen," said Beto
Cardenas, executive counsel to Americans for Immigration Reform, a coalition of
business leaders who support overhauling immigration laws. Changes to
immigration law contained in appropriations and authorization bills, where
immigration enforcement hawks are likely to tuck some measures, would also be
tough to reject.

But more controversial measures such as attempts to deny citizenship to children
of people who are in the U.S. without permission could be tempered by GOP
leaders aware of the need to curry more favor with Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 17, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Lou Dobbs and his issues

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 628 words


SAN DIEGO   Many Latinos probably feel like salsa dancing in the streets now
that CNN has finally cleared the air by purging itself of Lou Dobbs.

Dobbs' problem wasn't that he opposed illegal immigration. That's true of most
Americans. Yet somehow they don't wind up being caricatured   as Dobbs was
recently on NBC's "Saturday Night Live"   as a paranoid Latino-phobe warning of
an invasion of folks eager to wash dishes, pick lettuce, and do other jobs for
which Americans have lost their appetite. How did Dobbs get so lucky? "You could
be a racist and not be against illegal immigration," said Enrique Morones, a San
Diego-based immigration activist and anti-Dobbs crusader. "And you could be
against illegal immigration and not be a racist   although, a lot of times, if
not most, they go hand in hand."

What really bothered Morones about Dobbs and how he ran his show   bothered him
enough to start corresponding in 2005 with Dobbs via e-mail and protest outside
the CNN building in Atlanta in 2006   was where the host set up his lemonade
stand.

"He was promoting his cause on CNN," Morones said, "which bragged about being
'the most trusted name in news.' And he's on there slamming Mexicans."

To Morones, Dobbs was polluting the CNN brand. It appears that CNN management
finally reached the same conclusion. The Dobbs-CNN divorce has been packaged as
a mutual parting. But the relationship between Dobbs and CNN President Jon Klein
had, according to reports, become contentious amid Klein's attempts to rein in
the egocentric host. "I'm perfectly clear about CNN firing Lou Dobbs," Morones
said. "They're not going to say that. Because it's one of these situations where
they'll say, 'Well, he realizes that the writing is on the wall, and that it's
best for him to resign.' To me, that says he was fired. Jon Klein didn't want
him in there anymore."

So how did Dobbs get turned into a cartoon that got canceled? One reason is that
he did something that he criticized his critics of doing: he conflated legal and
illegal immigration. Not only because he gave loads of airtime to commentators,
authors and advocacy groups that want to ban all immigration, but also because
his show would seamlessly weave together segments on border security (which
pertains directly to illegal immigration) with segments on language and culture
(which can also be impacted by legal immigration). People figured Dobbs had
issues with Latino immigrants   period. No matter how they get here. One former
CNN executive who is Indian-American seemed to conclude as much. A few years
ago, when she was still with the network, she told me that Dobbs saw himself as
the defender of "real Americans" who looked more like him and nothing like her.

My own relationship with Dobbs is complicated. For the last few years, I've
served as a regular contributor to cnn.com . And before that, I appeared on
Dobbs' show a half-dozen times. Last year, during one of his monologues, he
criticized me for backing up Obama after the then-presidential candidate accused
Dobbs of stirring racial and ethnic animosity. A few years ago, during a chance
meeting, Dobbs accused me of calling him a racist and a xenophobe. I told him
that I had done no such thing, and that all I'd written was that he was making a
handsome living ($7 million to $9 million per year, according to the New York
Post) by pandering to racists and xenophobes. It was bigotry, fear, and
ignorance that paid the mortgage on Dobbs' lavish horse farm in New Jersey.

Now Dobbs will have to find another way to pay his bills. Say, he could always
take a page from immigrants and sell oranges on street corners. Don't laugh.
It's a more decent product than what he's been peddling these last few years.


By Ruben Navarrette
San Diego Union-Tribune

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

Fiorina faces the D.C. press corps, but offers few specifics

BYLINE: By Mike Zapler mzapler@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 864 words


WASHINGTON   It was meet the press time for Carly Fiorina on Wednesday. But,
judging from her responses to many questions, it was not time for this rookie
candidate to let the press pin her down.

In a question-and-answer session with reporters, the just-announced Republican
candidate for U.S. Senate and former CEO of Hewlett-Packard straddled the fence
on issues ranging from climate change to immigration, refusing to give specific
answers on the most controversial aspects of those debates.

She deemed climate change a "serious issue" but at the same time suggested the
science surrounding global warming is less than conclusive. She said she
supports "controlling the border" against illegal immigration and establishing a
better temporary worker program, but she declined to say whether she would vote
to create a path to citizenship for millions of illegal immigrants now in the
country.

"I think it's very unproductive to talk about single issues in isolation or to
answer hypothetical questions," Fiorina said when pressed by a reporter about
her views on immigration. "I'm not trying to dodge your question."

Aiming to unseat three-term Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer next fall, Fiorina
also held forth on some political questions   albeit with similar vagueness
ranging from how she intends to finance her campaign to whether she would seek
Sarah Palin's support.

Fiorina, who received a $21 million severance package after she was fired by HP
in 2005, said, "I don't have millions of dollars to put into the campaign." But
she did not rule out spending a smaller amount of her personal wealth.

The 40-minute session underscored the balancing act that the political newcomer
is attempting to pull off over the next year. At a time when Republicans across
the country are battling over whether to take the party in a more pragmatic or
ideologically pure direction, Fiorina will need to ward off a popular figure
among grass-roots conservatives, state Assemblyman Chuck DeVore, in the June
Republican primary. But if she tacks too far to the right to win the primary,
Fiorina could damage her chances in the general election, given the leftward
tilt of the California electorate.

A poll conducted last month for the Los Angeles Times and the University of
Southern California had Fiorina and DeVore locked in a dead heat. That survey
was conducted before Fiorina kicked off her campaign two weeks ago, but it
nevertheless indicated that the primary may not be a cakewalk for her.

In an interview, DeVore accused Fiorina of offering "platitudes without
specifics" and predicted that primary voters would demand more from her.

One of Fiorina's main apparent advantages over DeVore, political analysts say,
is money. But Fiorina's reluctance or inability to bring her own wealth to bear
in the race could erode some of that edge, said Republican pollster Adam
Probolsky of Orange County, suggesting to donors that she is not fully committed
to her candidacy.

"If you're viewed as being wealthy, you're expected to commit some of your
personal wealth to your campaign," Probolsky said.

But Fiorina, who was in Washington for a fundraising event for her campaign
Tuesday evening, did leave herself wiggle room on the money front. She said she
has loaned her campaign a sum she wouldn't disclose, and, she added, "time will
tell" how much more, if any, she spends on her bid. Although Fiorina is by all
indications a multimillionaire, her wealth does not apparently approach that of
Meg Whitman or Steve Poizner, the former business executives who are spending
millions of dollars of their personal fortunes running for governor.

Fiorina faced several questions about climate change, an issue in which Boxer is
deeply involved. The Republican said that global warming demands a serious
response, but when asked whether she would back mandatory caps on carbon
emissions, Fiorina said she would not comment on a bill she hasn't read. As for
what course of action she believes the government should take, Fiorina suggested
engaging in bilateral talks with China to curb greenhouse gases, and easing
regulations for alternative energy companies to build manufacturing plants.

When a reporter followed up by asking whether she believes in global warming,
Fiorina said, "I think we should have the courage to examine the science on an
ongoing basis."

On some other issues, Fiorina was more direct. She came out squarely against
health care reform legislation pending in Congress, and she said she backs the
so-called Stupak amendment, which would severely restrict access to abortion for
those who enroll in a government-run insurance plan or who receive federal
subsidies to buy private insurance.

Fiorina was asked a few times whether she would reach out to two celebrity
Republicans, Schwarzenegger and Palin, to back her bid. But Fiorina, a celebrity
in her own right in the business world, turned the queries aside. In response to
a question about her interest in a Palin endorsement, Fiorina responded: "I
think what's most important right now is for me to spend time with the people of
California and with people in California who voters respect and understand."

Contact Mike Zapler at 202-662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Californian Republican Senate candidate Carly Fiorina holds a
roundtable discussions with reporters in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009.
(AP Photo/Gerald Herbert)
Californian Republican Senate candidate Carly Fiorina holds a roundtable
discussions with reporters in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009. (AP
Photo/Gerald Herbert)
Californian Republican Senate candidate Carly Fiorina holds a roundtable
discussions with reporters in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009. (AP
Photo/Gerald Herbert)
Californian Republican Senate candidate Carly Fiorina holds a roundtable
discussions with reporters in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009. (AP
Photo/Gerald Herbert)
Californian Republican Senate candidate Carly Fiorina holds a roundtable
discussions with reporters in Washington, Wednesday, Nov. 18, 2009. (AP
Photo/Gerald Herbert)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 21, 2009 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Immigrants, it's time to consider going home

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 747 words


SAN DIEGO   In the past, I've advised undocumented immigrants from Mexico to
learn English, become legal, value education, refuse handouts, resist
entitlement, and culturally assimilate. Now, given a disturbing trend tied to
the wobbly U.S. economy   one that turns the immigration equation upside down
I have one more piece of advice: Consider going home.

Let me explain. It's not because they shouldn't be here in the first place.
That's a given. Regular readers know that I don't support illegal immigration.
In fact, I support speedy deportations, workplace raids, and tighter borders. I
also support comprehensive immigration reform that gives illegal immigrants
already here a pathway to earned legal status. There's no contradiction. You
can't have conditional reform without enforcement. How would you handle those
who didn't meet the conditions?

But don't expect me to sign on to the idealistic rhetoric from immigration
restrictionists who think that all people in the country illegally should
voluntarily return to where they came from because it's the right thing to do.
Why should they? They have accomplices, after all   they came here because
employers were willing to hire them. I would never be so naive as to make the
argument that illegal immigrants should self-deport for moral reasons, any more
than I would suggest employers turn themselves in to get right with the law.

Yet, given recent events, I am willing to contemplate a completely different
argument: that illegal immigrants should self-deport because of family reasons
or, more precisely, because of family responsibility. They should leave not to
please Americans but to alleviate some of the pressure that has come to weigh on
relatives back home.

After all, in large part, Mexican migration is an expression of family values.
The main reason that most Mexicans are here in the first place isn't for freedom
or a fresh start, but simply to make enough money to send home to their
relatives so that their lives in Mexico might be a little easier.

And guess what's happening now? According to the New York Times, there's a kind
of reverse remittance going on where, instead of illegal immigrants sending
money to Mexico, more and more poor people in Mexico are scraping together
whatever they can to send funds to unemployed sons and daughters in the United
States. Reporters interviewed Mexican government officials, bankers,
money-transfer operators, immigration experts and Mexicans with out-of-work
relatives in the United States. What they found was that, more and more often,
these binational transfers of wealth are headed north instead of south.

This trend sounds counterintuitive, but it makes perfect sense in human terms.
The parents quoted in the article want to do what most parents do when their
kids are struggling financially   send money, at least enough for them to get a
bite to eat. It doesn't matter whether those kids are under the same roof or
1,000 miles to the north.

But, as the article points out, the trouble is that most Mexicans are not in a
position to be anyone's fairy godmother. Poised to lose as many as 735,000 jobs
this year and with an economy that could decline as much as 7.5 percent, Mexico
could be one of the countries hardest hit by the global recession. Remittances
from relatives in the United States, while still a leading source of foreign
revenue, have also suffered a steep decline.

In many Mexican villages, all you find are older people   many of them now
working harder to earn a few extra pesos to send to children in the United
States. This is, at best, a temporary solution. Folks on both sides of the
border are treading water and trying to buy enough time for the U.S. economy to
bounce back and for the jobs to return. At that point, they hope things will go
back to the way they used to be   money flowing south.

But until that happens, why remain here? For pride? For hubris? To avoid
accepting failure? For that, they're allowing their elderly parents   many of
whom have worked their entire lives   to continue to work long hours, perhaps
putting their own health in jeopardy? What if something happens to them in the
process? It's not worth it. Life is short enough as it is.

If the immigrants who are in the United States can't afford to live here, then
remaining is a luxury they also can't afford. They might not be better off at
home. But their families might be. If so, time to go.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 7, 2009 Monday

Opinion: Barring illegal immigrants from health plans would hit California hard

BYLINE: By Dan Walters Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 482 words


One of the red-hot aspects of the heated political debate over a national health
insurance system is whether millions of illegal immigrants   a quarter of whom
live in California   will be included or excluded.

And to California's deficit-plagued budget, it's not merely an ideological
squabble. If a health coverage agreement can be reached, inclusion or exclusion
of illegal immigrants from benefits could have multibillion-dollar effects on
the budget.

It's estimated that there are 12 million illegal immigrants, most of them from
Latin America, in the United States. About 3 million of them reside in
California. Some receive health coverage through employers, about 800,000
receive state health care of some kind and others are treated in emergency rooms
and public clinics, whose costs often hit taxpayers.

Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., infamously shouted "you lie" to President Barack Obama
when he told Congress that federal health care "would not apply to those who are
here illegally," thus triggering furious maneuvering in Congress and linking the
heated health care issue to the even hotter immigration issue.

Both Democratic versions purport to deny, or at least restrict, federal benefits
to illegal immigrants. But conservative critics contend that a mandate on
employers to provide health coverage would indirectly provide benefits to
illegal workers.

The White House persuaded the Senate to ban illegal immigrants from receiving
federal health subsidies or participating in a federally sponsored insurance
purchasing pool with their own money. The House version, however, would allow
illegal immigrants to participate in the pool.

Meanwhile, the congressional Latino caucus, including many Californians, and
Latino rights groups are demanding that immigration status be disconnected from
health care. "We feel that our community is not being fully represented in the
conversation and need to be more aggressively represented," Lillian Rodriguez
Lopez, president of the Hispanic Federation, told The Washington Post.

The debate affects approximately 2 million illegal immigrants in California who
lack health insurance. State officials have conducted no detailed studies of the
impact because the bills themselves are constantly changing. It appears,
however, that the state budget would benefit should illegal immigrants be
included, but would incur even higher costs if they are excluded   largely
because it's virtually certain that national health care would expand
eligibility for Medi-Cal, the program now serving about 7 million low-income
Californians, by raising income limits.

By one congressional analysis, increased eligibility would cost California an
additional $1.4 billion a year.

That's a heavy blow on a budget that's already billions of dollars out of
balance, in part because of rising Medi-Cal costs, now about $14 billion a year.


DAN WALTERS is a Sacramento Bee columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 20, 2009 Sunday

Opinion: Navarette: Now's a good a time as any to legalize illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 734 words


With the nation's jobless rate at 10 percent and six applicants for every
opening, you might think this is the worst possible time for Congress to
legalize millions of illegal immigrants.

Yet that's one of the proposals in a new immigration reform bill introduced by
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill.

Those who believe you can't discuss immigration in a down economy must also
assume that newly legalized immigrants would automatically compete for jobs with
U.S. workers, and that the last thing our homegrown work force needs in tough
times is more competition. This is an easy argument to make, but it's not a very
strong one for three reasons.

1. There is never a good time for Congress to discuss legalizing the
undocumented.

The last time it debated the issue, from 2005 to 2007, the country had a
stronger economy and an unemployment rate of less than 5 percent. Even then,
many members found the issue too hot to handle. That's because the sticking
point isn't the economy or jobs or what's best for U.S. workers.

What really concerns many Americans about the immigrants of today is the same
thing that has concerned them throughout U.S. history   an irrational but
insuppressible fear over shifting demographics and other changes that newcomers
bring to the culture, language and landscape.

Americans aren't trying to save jobs. They're trying to save their quality of
life. What they're missing is that they often owe this quality of life to the
availability of cheap and reliable illegal immigrant labor. If they would just
admit this, the debate would be better off.

2. The whole "illegal immigrants take jobs from Americans" argument is bogus.

It's time to stop pretending that illegal immigrants are really in some
wide-scale competition with U.S. workers. Often, what's at stake are jobs that,
by their very nature, are unpleasant   working in dairies, tarring roofs,
cleaning horse stalls, picking apples, washing windows on skyscrapers, etc.

Americans used to do these jobs, but their children and grandchildren won't do
them today. So immigrants are hired, many of them illegal.

Besides, those relatively few undereducated and unskilled Americans who do
compete with illegal immigrants   a group that often lacks education and the
ability to speak English, as well as legal status   and still lose out have
bigger problems than where their next paycheck is coming from. They've obviously
made bad choices in life, and now they have to live with the consequences.

3. As President Obama himself has suggested, one way to level the playing field
for beleaguered U.S. workers is to make undocumented immigrants legal and take
away the incentive for unscrupulous employers to hire them because they can pay
them less than U.S. workers.

The best way to stop pitting one group of workers against another is to bring up
immigrants to a point where they're on par with U.S. workers. To the degree that
there is a competition, such a change would make it a fair one and eliminate any
advantage that illegal immigrants might now enjoy.

Once this happens, employers won't have an incentive to hire illegal workers.
Problem solved. On the other hand, by keeping illegal workers in the shadows, we
keep wages low and U.S. workers at a disadvantage. That's not smart or
beneficial to the same American labor force the opponents of comprehensive
immigration reform claim to care so much about.

So, even with a sluggish U.S. economy, now is as good a time as any to restart
the immigration debate. Although this time, we need to achieve a different
ending. During the last go-round, there was plenty of ugliness but not enough
honesty.

These days, everyone is a victim   even whole countries. The fearmongers,
nativists and alarmists like to say that the United States is experiencing an
"invasion." This convenient narrative implies that Americans haven't been
willing actors in this drama and excuses them of any responsibility.

Illegal immigration is not something that was done to Americans while they were
minding their own business. It's something that Americans did to themselves over
the last few decades by raising children who see the worst and dirtiest jobs as
beneath them, and then hiring hardworking illegal immigrants who don't have the
luxury of doing the same.

If we're going to have this debate again, let's start from there and work our
way forward.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a San Diego Union-Tribune columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday

New report says illegal immigration population plummeted last year

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


The number of illegal immigrants living in the United States dropped by 1
million people in two years, according to new estimates by the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security.

The government believes 10.8 million illegal immigrants lived in the country in
January 2009, down from a peak of nearly 12 million in 2007. If the official
estimates are correct, not since 2005 has the population of illegal immigrants
been as low as it was last year.

Some private researchers, however, are questioning the magnitude of the drop.

"It's very clear the undocumented population basically stopped growing after
2006," said Jeffrey Passel, a demographer with the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic
Center. "It's plausible that the numbers have gotten smaller. But the way that
they're measuring it, if you compare this estimate with the one two years ago,
it overstates the degree of decline."

Twice over the past two years, Passel said the U.S. Census Bureau has changed
the way it measures immigration in its annual population surveys. Since nearly
all estimates of the unauthorized immigrant population rely on the census survey
numbers, these changes might have distorted the results. The authors of the
government estimates could not be reached for comment Tuesday.

The report cautioned that changes made to the census survey could have affected
the results. The report, produced annually since 2005, is the government's
official tabulation of immigrants living here illegally.

Most researchers agree that no matter the size of the population, which is
notoriously hard to measure, the rate of illegal immigration dropped sharply
during the recession. They disagree, however, on the causes.

"The number of new undocumented immigrants coming in has plummeted," Passel
said.

Other researchers conclude the drop is not because fewer illegal immigrants are
coming in, but because more are leaving.

"The illegal population is falling significantly," said Steve Camarota of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates reducing immigration. "The only
way for that to happen is for a lot more people to be going home."

The government demographers reached the same exact estimate   10.8 million
illegal immigrants nationwide   that Camarota concluded in his own demographic
study last year.

But while most researchers cite the recession as the cause for the decline,
Camarota said border enforcement plays an important part.

"The decline in the population begins before the economy turns down," Camarota
said. "That suggests that, at least initially, it's because of the stepped-up
enforcement that increased during the end of the Bush administration."

Other analysts disagree, saying slower migration flows are a worldwide trend
associated with the down economy.

"It's really driven by fewer people coming in," said Jeane Batalova, a
researcher with the Migration Policy Institute based in Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPO, CA - JULY 30: A U.S. Border Patrol agent searches for tracks
after a night of surveillance using night-vision equipment as agents carry out
"special operations" near the U.S.-Mexico border fence on July 30, 2009 near the
rural town of Campo, some 60 miles east of San Diego, California. Thirty
-year-old U.S. Border Patrol agent Robert Rosas was killed on July 23, 2009 when
he tracked a suspicious group of people alone in remote brushy hills north of
the border in this region, the first fatal shooting of a agent in more than a
decade. Violence has been escalating in Mexico with fights between well-armed
drug cartels and the Mexican army have become common since Mexican President
Felipe Calderon began his army-backed war on the cartels. 12,800 have been
killed since the conflict began in late 2006, Mexican officials charge that
guns, which they say are easily smuggled in from the U.S., have flooded into
Mexico where gun laws are strict. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)
A sign is posted on a freeway warning drivers of people crossing 24 January 2006
in San Ysidro, CA. US officials recently announced the the capture of more than
75,000 immigration violators at the Southern California ports of entry in the
year 2005. San Ysidro is considered one of the busiest points of entry into the
US, with an estimate 35,000 pedestrians and 55,000 cars crossing the border
every day. AFP PHOTO/HECTOR MATA (Photo credit should read HECTOR MATA/AFP/Getty
Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday

The case for counting California's illegal immigrants in the Census

BYLINE: By thomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 815 words


Once again, the self-destructive cry is heard from some parts of California,
just as it's been every 10 years when the census is about to begin: "Don't count
illegal immigrants."

The argument for not counting illegals is simple, well expressed the other day
by Ken Calvert, a Republican congressman from Corona, a city in Riverside
County. "The law is the law, and illegal immigrants should not be counted
because they are not U.S. citizens or legal residents," Calvert told a reporter.

The flaw in this argument is just as simple. It's unconstitutional not to count
illegals. The Constitution puts the U.S. Census Bureau's mission simply:
"counting the whole number of persons in each state."

So unless illegal immigrants physically are the non-persons some activists would
figuratively like to make of them, they have to be counted. It's the law.

It's also good for California. This state often complains legitimately that the
federal government doesn't pay enough for services provided to illegals, a gripe
that Republicans Meg Whitman and Steve Poizner have lately made a centerpiece of
their campaigns for governor.

Those services include things like public schooling, emergency room care,
imprisoning illegal immigrant criminals and a host of other items. It's a common
claim that illegals cost California taxpayers a net of as much as $7 billion per
year. This, of course, disregards all taxes they pay, from sales and gasoline
levies to local utility taxes and   in many cases   income tax.

The argument over whether illegal immigrants cost taxpayers more than they
contribute is an old one and has never been authoritatively resolved, but there
is no doubt they use public services. Likewise, there is no doubt that
Californians have long paid more in federal taxes than they get back via federal
spending on roads, water projects, welfare, defense contracts or anything else.
The figure for 2008 was that California received just 79 cents back for every
dollar paid in federal taxes.

The imbalance has been so bad that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger made a plea for
equity a key part of his January budget message. The odds are poor that he will
do any better at extracting federal dollars than predecessors like Pete Wilson,
Gray Davis, George Deukmejian and Ronald Reagan, all of whom voiced similar
complaints.

Which leads back to the census. A strong showing in the count that begins next
month will be the easiest way for California to get back more of the tax money
it tosses into the national pot.

For the census is not used merely to draw congressional districts and dole out
Electoral College votes, the two functions it was nominally created for.
Congress also uses the count to distribute more than $400 billion each year to
state and local governments, plus Indian tribes.

Besides that, census figures are used to locate pools of skilled workers, decide
where schools and hospitals should go and allocate highway and Medicaid/Medi-Cal
money, among other vital functions.

So the more people California has, the more money it will get. Also, the more
people California has, the more seats it will get in Congress, thus increasing
or decreasing the state's national influence. It is no coincidence, for example,
that California now has 53 House seats, the most ever for any state, and also
has its first-ever House speaker, San Francisco's Nancy Pelosi.

Should Republicans win back control of Congress later this year, chances are the
new speaker would not be from California, but the state's big GOP delegation
would assure plenty of committee chairmanships, just like the state now has
under a Democratic majority.

And it turns out illegal immigrants are one major part of getting the money and
influence that California's size and populace ought to produce. Don't count the
estimated 3 million to 4 million who are here, and California will lose seats in
Congress and billions of dollars.

That's why cooler heads than Calvert's should prevail, and it appears they will.
The National Association of Latino Elected Officials points out that the census
has always counted people who were not eligible to vote, from slaves (counted as
partial people at the beginning) to children and women before they gained
suffrage.

It's rather ironic that some California Republicans in Congress argue that
illegals should be counted for purposes of allocating money to states, but not
for redistricting. Ironic because that reasoning could cost some of those who
favor it their jobs, as they might be tossed into districts with other incumbent
representatives if the state lost some of its seats.

The bottom line is that the more people are counted in California, the better
for the state in myriad ways. Which is why it's a gross disservice for any
California representative to encourage census takers not to count illegals or
suggest illegals work at avoiding the count.

E-mail Tom Elias at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

Pro-illegal immigrant studies won't end debate

BYLINE: By thomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 803 words


If the UCLA and USC professors whose studies early this year concluded that
allowing illegal immigrants to stay in America would provide a huge boost to the
economy thought their findings might end one of this country's longest-running
policy and moral debates, they were sadly mistaken.

For the battle over illegal immigrants and whether they should be permitted some
path to eventual citizenship actually heated up after those reports appeared.

On one side, the studies' authors and others insist that legalizing the
currently undocumented would produce wage increases, increase tax receipts at
all levels of government, up the consumption of consumer goods and create jobs.

The other side says that is probably baloney, but even if it's true, it would
still come at the expense of American citizen workers who desperately want and
need at least some of the jobs now taken by illegals.

What's constructive in all this is the perspective it lends to the longtime
argument over how much illegal immigration costs state and local governments or
whether the undocumented actually pay their own way via sales and gasoline
taxes, property taxes (included in their rent payments) and other levies,
including those on utility and telephone bills.

The anti-immigrant lobby argues that illegals cost California about $7 billion
per year for services like public education and emergency medical care. But some
studies say they pay in more than that in the obvious taxes   plus an unknown
amount in state and federal income tax. Plus, since many use counterfeit Social
Security cards to obtain jobs, another unknown amount is paid to that system for
accounts that will never be drawn upon. Which means illegals are actually
subsidizing Social Security.

But no one had previously assessed the costs and benefits of illegal immigration
for the general national economy, of which California makes up more than 12
percent even in today's lean times.

Now come the supposedly impartial Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, associate professor of
Chicana and Chicano studies at UCLA; and Manuel Pastor, a geography and American
studies professor and co-director of the USC Center for the Study of Immigrant
Integration. Hinojosa-Ojeda, a former advisor to ex-President Bill Clinton,
claims legalizing the estimated 12 million illegals now in the United States
would produce a $1.5 trillion benefit to the economy over 10 years   about
$12,500 per year per legalized immigrant over current levels. Pastor says
legalizing the approximately 3 million illegals in California would immediately
increase state and local taxes by about $350 million a year.

This would happen because of the increased wages legalization would bring, the
consumer goods the newly legalized would buy and the taxes they would pay on
their increased income. Plus, legalizing many of the undocumented would drive
wages up for almost everyone, because there would presumably no longer be an
easily exploited underclass available for employers to play off against U.S.
citizens and legal immigrant workers.

Under that reasoning, deporting 360,000 Mexicans back to their home country, as
the U.S. did in just the first 11 months of last year, actually meant a $4.5
billion overall loss to the American economy in 2009 alone. Hinojosa-Ojeda
reports he reached his conclusions using data on what became of the 3 million
former illegals who achieved permanent resident status or citizenship via the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which was signed by then-President
Ronald Reagan.

Not everyone believes all this, of course. Skeptics wonder why, if illegals
would be so productive here if granted amnesty, they weren't similarly
productive in their home countries.

And there's the issue of American-born workers. Immigration amnesty advocates
maintain newly legalized workers don't cost American citizens many jobs.

But the anti-illegal immigrant Center of Immigration Studies (CIS) in
Washington, D.C., contends that's not so. There is no proof on either side, but
CIS research director Steven Camarota maintains "the big losers are native-born
Americans who compete with (illegals) for jobs, wages and scarce public
resources."

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
another anti-illegal immigrant group, added to a reporter that "basic common
sense tells the American public that when you have double-digit unemployment,
granting amnesty is not a good idea." But he offered no evidence.

The bottom line is that there is no consensus on the net costs and benefits of
illegal immigration, but one thing is certain: The new studies add a completely
different perspective to the debate, providing unprecedented ammunition for
advocates of legalization.

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. E-mail
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

New poll shows 'sea change' in Californians' attitudes toward illegal
immigration

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 834 words


In a dramatic turnaround from 16 years ago, Californians now overwhelmingly
favor giving illegal immigrants a "path to legalization" rather than punishing
them by denying them a public education and social services, according to a poll
unveiled Monday.

The survey of 1,515 registered voters showed that 67 percent of Californians
support a two-pronged approach to solving the illegal immigration problem:
implementing stronger enforcement at the border while setting up a legalization
path for undocumented immigrants who admit they broke the law, perform community
service, learn English and pay fines and back taxes.

Seventy percent favor stricter border controls and a temporary worker program
that does not grant illegal immigrants citizenship and requires them to return
to their homeland. But only 45 percent favor denying the undocumented an
education and taxpayer-funded health and social services.

Dan Schnur, director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of Southern California, said the poll -- sponsored by the Los Angeles
Times and USC's College of Letters, Arts and Sciences -- showed there was a "sea
change" in Californians' attitudes toward illegal immigration since 1994. That's
when 59 percent of the state's voters cast a ballot in favor of Proposition 187,
the white-hot measure aimed at denying services to illegal immigrants. The
proposition was later ruled unconstitutional by federal courts.

"The conventional wisdom has suggested that the level of support for denial of
services had remained fairly constant," said Schnur, who once worked for
Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, a champion of Proposition 187. But the new poll,
Schnur said, suggests otherwise.

One big reason for the change: Younger voters are less likely to favor cutting
off services to the undocumented, Schnur said. In addition, the number of Latino
voters has substantially increased since 1994.

Richard Hobbs, associate director of the San Jose-based Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network, said the poll results didn't surprise him because
he believes most fair-minded Californians realize that the current immigration
policy is breaking up families. "There is widespread support to allow
mixed-status families to be made whole," he said.

But Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of the Orinda-based Alliance for a
Sustainable USA, a group that wants to see more restrictions on immigration,
said the poll's results are deceptive and will turn around once Californians
begin paying attention to the renewed debate in Congress, expected later this
year.

"Nobody ever told the people surveyed that amnesty will lead to an explosion of
both legal and illegal immigration as newly naturalized citizens bring in their
extended families," she said.

The wide-ranging survey -- which because of its large sampling size has a
relatively small margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage points -- is
the second in a series of polls sponsored by the college and the newspaper. The
survey was conducted by Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research in conjunction with
American Viewpoint, a public-opinion research firm.

Other results included:

Forty-six percent of voters are more likely to support a member of Congress or
U.S. senator who supported the recently passed health care bill. Twenty-nine
percent are less likely to support the lawmaker; it made no difference to 19
percent. The finding is not good news for statewide GOP candidates for governor
and U.S. Senate who have vowed to repeal the law.

GOP front-runner Meg Whitman is beating Democrat Jerry Brown 44 percent to 41
percent in the battle for governor. In the GOP primary, Whitman was beating
Steve Poizner by a 3-1 ratio: 60 percent to 20 percent. Brown led Poizner by 53
percent to 22 percent.

Whitman's wall-to-wall TV and radio advertising campaign has resulted in an
increase in favorable ratings from 17 percent in November to 30 percent now.
Poizner, the

Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer beats a "generic Republican" opponent by 48
percent to 34 percent. Former Silicon Valley Congressman Tom Campbell is winning
in the GOP primary with 29 percent, compared with former Hewlett-Packard CEO
Carly Fiorina, with 25 percent. Conservative state Assemblyman Chuck Devore is
trailing with 9 percent.

Belying the "common wisdom" that most Republican primary voters hunger for a
red-meat conservative candidate, 44 percent of likely GOP voters said they
preferred a "centrist"; 45 percent preferred a "strong conservative." The
difference is statistically insignificant.

"As a Republican pollster, I was struck by how reasonable the Republican primary
voter is today," said Linda DiVall of American Viewpoint.

She noted that only 20 percent of Republican voters surveyed said that it's
"extremely important" for a candidate to be conservative. That, she said,
indicates California Republicans this year are more interested in winning than
nominating someone who is a true believer.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rally attendees Juan Carlos Valazquez Analco speacks to crowd with
megaphone, Laly Arellano,center, holds sign during the San Jose based rally - in
support of a massive pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar
Chavez Park in San Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Peninsula readers' letters:

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 853 words


Promoting illegal immigrants harms law-abiding Americans

Dear Editor: Trish Hooper (Letters, April 30) stereotypes supporters of
Arizona's "get tough on illegal aliens" law as racist Republican "hatemongers."

Yet roughly half of registered Democrats oppose illegal immigration, as do about
a quarter of American Latinos and most American blacks, according to exit polls
on relevant initiatives in recent California ballots.

Ms. Hooper calls for an immigration policy implementing the "Give me your tired
masses" poem bolted to the Statue of Liberty's base. Actually the French
intended the statue as a tribute to America's enlightened constitutional
democracy. The plaque was added later by immigration activists trying to subvert
the statue's true meaning, so they could advance their agenda on someone else's
dime.

Moreover, no nation has such an open border policy. It would be national
suicide, which is why so many nations make it a felony to enter illegally
(including Mexico until recently).

As for the illegals themselves, Ms. Hooper justifies those who are murderous
drug traffickers because we asked for it. So we should just wave them on? How
about traffickers in child sex slaves? They're just filling a demand. Wave them
on too?

The majority admittedly just want honest, unskilled work, for which the American
unemployment rate is pushing 20 percent and for which wages have dropped 5 to 25
percent due to illegal aliens' competition.

Worst of all, Mr. Hooper never questions why millions of illegals are coming
here. Here's a hint: Mexico's population has octupled since 1900. That's our
fault how?

Lee Thé

Palo Alto

State must clean up rail process

Dear Editor: I have submitted the following to the state auditor:

I've ridden trains around the world. I want the HSR (high-speed rail). I'm not
blowing a whistle; but I'm very concerned over both the performance and the
selection of the HSR overview.

If the news is correct, (high-speed rail program manager) Parsons is obviously
proceeding without adequate overview by state audits and concrete action is
needed.

First, if the Parsons firm wasn't adequately staffed and equipped to handle this
project from the initial planning phase, it should have been omitted from
consideration. If this wasn't known by state procurement personnel, they in turn
should be sanctioned.

I am a native Californian, retired, in my eighth decade as a taxpayer, and have
worked in the large project construction field in both information systems and
procurement, globally, as both technician and manager.

If Parsons wasn't thoroughly audited by the state, its contract should be
terminated and an alternative found. And the state should wipe the grease off
the process, take appropriate action on any faulty or less than stringent action
by the selection and auditing staff, investigate the selection personnel process
and terminate the Parsons contract.

Then start over, and do it right.

Chuck Atchison,

Palo Alto

Tea party behavior

Dear Editor: Nancy Deussen (Letters, May 1) denies that tea party members are
racist. If so, how does she explain Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, D-Missouri, being spat
on; Rep. John Lewis, D-Georgia, being called a "ni..er"; and signs portraying
Barack and Michelle Obama with bones through their noses; and much, much more?

I'm sure Ms. Deussen would attempt to dismiss these as aberrations but if so,
why doesn't the group publicly discredit this conduct?

Instead, they seem to encourage the most hateful and un-American behavior since
the racial violence during the civil rights protests.

What's most puzzling about tea partiers is their unfocused anger. They hate
socialism but meet in public parks, use our public highways and demand that
their Medicare remains untouched. They want lower taxes despite the fact that of
the 30 largest industrialized nations, our tax burden is 29th and at a 40-year
low. Apparently, they want what's best about our country as long as someone else
pays for it.

What's in that tea they're drinking?

Irv Brenner,

Palo Alto

Give Poizner some fashion points

Dear Editor: The Whitman-Poizner slugfest was ridiculous. Meg may have been
trying to prove she was ready to jump up at any time and go another round, but
her unladylike position on that stool was downright embarrassing. Also, someone
should tell the woman to never wear red. Her suit perfectly matched the red
splotches on her face.

Who won the debate? I don't know, but Poizner definitely won the fashion show.

Toni M. Villa,

Palo Alto

Minding their own business

Dear Editor: It's hard to believe that the global reach of the Menlo Park City
Council has not reached out to British Petroleum to slap the company about the
Gulf Oil spill. Maybe council members have finally decided to deal with local
issues for a change. Pension reform and the "flushing" of many dollars to
consultants to off-load responsibility for parking reform and downtown
development have to be dealt with.

Could be that the envisioning process for downtown will be postponed to after
the election so as not to be an issue in November. This tactic won't save you
from public scrutiny, council members.

Pat White,

Menlo Park

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Illegal immigration becomes hot issue in gubernatorial campaign

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; State; Local

LENGTH: 942 words


When GOP candidate for governor Steve Poizner began beating the campaign drum
about illegal immigration a few months back, most observers dismissed it as a
desperation tactic.

But with some polls suggesting Poizner has narrowed a once-yawning gap between
himself and rival Meg Whitman   and with a strict new immigration law in Arizona
sparking nationwide debate   the issue has returned with a vengeance to
California's political scene.

Poizner, the state insurance commissioner and erstwhile Silicon Valley moderate,
has been pushing the issue in an attempt to claim the "true conservative" mantle
in the primary, where the Republican Party's right-wing base often determines
the outcome.

Whitman at first largely ignored his accusations that she's soft on the issue.
But this week, the eBay billionaire released a new radio ad in which former Gov.
Pete Wilson   who 16 years ago championed the wildly divisive immigration
measure Proposition 187   promises Whitman will be as "tough as nails on illegal
immigration."

The issue's re-emergence has created a dilemma for the state Republican Party,
one made thornier by the unique political history of this increasingly Latino
state.

One GOP camp says putting forth a candidate who doesn't take a hard line on
illegal immigration would set the reeling state on course for even deeper
financial troubles   and belie the party's principles. But the other side fears
putting illegal immigration on the front burner is fraught with risks for the
party when it comes to the November election.

In short: Republicans in the primary might demand tough talk on illegal
immigration, but that talk likely will alienate many Latino and independent
voters a Republican candidate will need to attract in the fall.

Nevertheless, Whitman seems to have thrown her November caution to the wind in
the wake of internal polls by both candidates and a SurveyUSA poll of 548 likely
Republican voters released this week.

In her radio commercial with Wilson, Whitman asks voters not to be fooled by
Poizner's "misleading ads" that accuse her of being in favor of amnesty for
those in the country illegally.

"Illegal immigrants are just that   illegal," Whitman says.

Dan Schnur, director of the University of Southern California's Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics, said it's no surprise Whitman has shifted tactics to
shore up her conservative credentials.

"When you have a 40- or 50-point lead in the polls, it's much easier" to run a
campaign aimed at winning a broad swath of voters in the general election, he
said.

Marilyn Holmes, of San Jose, a lifelong Republican, is delighted that the
candidates are finally talking tough.

"I like Meg because I think she would put her nose to the grindstone, but she
needs to do more than say 'We should build a better fence,' " said Holmes, a
retired high-tech analyst. "We need to send these people back."

Proposition 187, aimed at cutting off most public services to illegal
immigrants, won overwhelming voter approval in 1994 but was overturned in
federal court. The issue drove many Latinos from the GOP and played a role in
solidifying California as a blue state.

Latinos, the fastest-growing minority group in the country, make up 18 percent
of California's electorate and will be a key   perhaps deciding   voting block
when Poizner or Whitman face Democrat Jerry Brown in the fall.

The illegal immigration issue presents "a tough situation for GOP politicians,"
said Alberto Camarillo, a Stanford University history professor. "So many of
them realize that they have to toe the line on conservative issues, particularly
this issue   which is a hard one to dance around."

A Wall Street Journal/NBC poll released Wednesday showed 64 percent of Americans
support Arizona's new law, which requires police to check the papers of
suspected illegal immigrants. But the same poll showed 27 percent of Latinos
back it, in large part because they say it will lead to racial profiling.

Whitman opposes the Arizona law and has criticized Proposition 187, saying she
disagrees with Wilson, her campaig n chairman, on the latter. Poizner has
praised both measures. And in a bizarre twist, the Poizner campaign Thursday
unveiled its first Spanish-language radio ad, in which Wilson is featured
prominently.

The commercial plays back part of Whitman's own ad featuring Wilson and accuses
her of trying to tout her Wilson ties to Anglo voters but hide them from
Latinos.

Even before his latest ad hit, many Whitman supporters   particularly her Latino
backers   were furious at Poizner, arguing that his stridency on the issue will
harm the Republican candidate who faces Brown. The former governor has long
enjoyed good relations with Latinos and supports giving illegal immigrants a
path to citizenship.

"There's a danger that once again Republicans are going to be branded as haters,
as racists," said Luis Alvarado, chairman of the Los Angeles County chapter of
the Republican National Hispanic Assembly. "It's unfortunate, because there is
so much about Republican ideology that Latinos would find attractive. But this
one item kills the whole meal."

But Tom Fuentes, chairman emeritus of the Republican Party of Orange County, and
other Poizner supporters say the Whitman campaign has a lot of chutzpah to
complain about Poizner playing up immigration while it trots out Wilson, who
remains persona non grata in much of the Latino community.

"I think the rhetoric about illegal immigration was very wrong in those days,"
Fuentes said of the Proposition 187 era. By contrast, he said, he doesn't think
"the issues Steve has projected have been race-focused in any way."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOP gubernatorial candidates Steve Poizner, left, answers a question as
Meg Whitman listens during a televised debate at the Tech Museum in San Jose,
Calif. on Sunday, May 2, 2010. Steve Poizner and Meg Whitman squared off in
their second debate as each vies to become the GOP nominee for California's
governor. (Jim Gensheimer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Walters: California's immigration connection to Arizona

BYLINE: By Dan Walters

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 434 words


There is an obvious political relationship between Arizona's highly
controversial new law aimed at rounding up illegal immigrants and California's
gubernatorial election.

Its passage triggered an immediate rhetorical clash between Republicans Meg
Whitman and Steve Poizner over who would be tougher on California's 3 million
illegal immigrants.

Poizner endorsed the Arizona law and Whitman didn't, but she trotted out former
Gov. Pete Wilson, father of California's famous   or infamous   anti-illegal
immigration Proposition 187 to attest to her tough-on-illegals credentials.

Although the issue helped Wilson win re-election in 1994, whether it would help
this year's GOP nominee is problematic because California's political dynamics
have changed since then.

But California's measure indirectly sparked the Arizona backlash. Its 1994
passage was a political shock to Sen. Dianne Feinstein and then-President Bill
Clinton. The result was a major crackdown on the flow of immigrants across the
U.S.-Mexico border into California.

Technology, physical barriers and more Border Patrol officers made it much
tougher to cross in the San Diego area. The immigrant flow shifted eastward into
the California desert and later into the sparsely populated Arizona desert.
History may be repeating itself; the Obama administration says it will dispatch
1,200 troops to Arizona.

In the wake of Arizona's new law, the conservative mediasphere has crackled with
demands that California emulate its neighbor, either by passing new laws   a
nonstarter in a liberal Legislature   or enforcing a section of the California
Penal Code requiring law enforcement agencies to "fully cooperate" with federal
authorities in identifying illegal immigrants who run afoul of the law.

What the right-wing bloggers and radio talkers don't know   or don't acknowledge
is that Section 834b was placed there by Proposition 187. Like most of the
measure, it was invalidated when Democrat Gray Davis, Wilson's successor,
refused to pursue an appeal in federal court.

In fact, a Democratic attorney general, Bill Lockyer, issued a 2001 opinion that
Section 834b's provisions "have been declared pre-empted by federal law and
their enforcement has been permanently enjoined by a federal court." Lockyer
also declared that it would be illegal for a California cop to question the
immigration status of anyone just for speaking Spanish.

Therefore, while the new Arizona law urges its police to identify illegal
immigrants, California police are effectively barred from doing so. So the
crackdown promises of the Republican rivals are merely hot air.



LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: A step-by-step guide to solve the immigration
problem

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 668 words


SAN DIEGO -- Angry over my criticism of hateful legislative tantrums such as
Arizona's new law to ferret out illegal immigrants, some readers have demanded
to know my solution to America's immigration problem.

I thought they'd never ask. The first thing we need to do is avoid making
matters worse. We only compound the problem by building walls and fences that
make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to go home and visit family
members; they're afraid they won't be able to come back, so they remain on this
side of the border. Or by deputizing local police to enforce federal immigration
law, thereby sending immigrants underground and making them easy prey for
criminals. Or, in what likely will be the next great battle, by denying U.S.
citizenship to the American-born children of illegal immigrants, seemingly in
violation of the 14th Amendment.

Every one of these knee-jerk proposals hardens positions, divides people and
creates a whole new set of problems.

We can also pass on the idea proposed by Tom Mullins, the Republican nominee for
a New Mexico congressional seat, who suggested that if the United States really
wanted to secure the border, it could place land mines along it -- and "put up
signs in 23 different languages if necessary." Mullins later insisted he was
"not suggesting we do that" but only repeating an idea he had heard on the
campaign trail.

Let's try this instead:

Provide the Border Patrol with all the tools and equipment it needs to do its
job. When I asked a top official in the agency for a wish list, he suggested
better-quality surveillance equipment, tunnel detection capability and improved
roadways so agents can get to the border that much quicker.

Create a tamper-proof ID card that all Americans would carry in their wallets so
employers could know exactly who is eligible to work and who isn't. This way, we
eliminate the excuse that employers didn't know they were hiring an illegal
immigrant.

Pass a federal "three strikes" law to get tough with employers who repeatedly
hire illegal immigrants. First offense, a warning. Second, a fine. Third, jail.
And apply the law not just to companies but to homeowners who rely on domestic
workers.

Create an earned pathway to legal status for illegal immigrants who have lived
in the United States for at least 10 years but make it conditional, where
applicants pay a fine, undergo criminal background checks and return to their
home country to be processed for legal re-entry.

Make sure what is awarded is legal status and not U.S. citizenship. In fact,
institute a 10-year ban on becoming a citizen for any illegal immigrant who
obtains legal status in this manner.

Institute a 10-year ban on public benefits for the newly legalized and their
children -- welfare, food stamps, government-subsidized housing, etc., with the
exceptions being public education and emergency health care.

For those illegal immigrants who fail to meet the conditions to remain in this
country legally, continue internal enforcement measures such as workplace raids
-- not by local police but by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents -- and
speed up the deportation process by limiting appeals.

Finally, to relieve pressure at the border, increase the number of legal
immigrants admitted to the United States each year from the current level of
about 1 million to 3 million, or about 1 percent of the U.S. population. Also,
remove the emphasis on family reunification and instead make decisions on who
should enter based strictly on the needs of the work force.

It's not hard to come up with ideas on how to fix a broken immigration system.
The tough part is getting members of Congress to stand up to the bullies and
special interests in both parties and finally do what needs to be done. When it
comes to immigration reform, the problem on Capitol Hill isn't a shortage of
imagination. It's a lack of political courage. And, unfortunately, for that,
there is no quick fix.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

John Horgan: Grand jury takes on touchy subject: illegal immigration

BYLINE: By John Horgan San Mateo County Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 598 words


It's been the elephant in the San Mateo County living room for some time. But
few policymakers or politicians have been willing to even admit it's there.

That changed last week. Suddenly, the controversial matter of illegal
immigration was front and center, placed there by the county's civil grand jury.

The sensitive subject came up in a grand jury report on escalating public health
care costs. The recommendation concluded in part that one way to trim those
expenses would be to halt heavily subsidized nonemergency health care for
uninsured illegal residents of the Peninsula.

The county, the report noted, is one of the few in California that provides such
services for illegal immigrants.

Earlier this decade, as a county task force studied ways to handle health care
for the uninsured, a survey found that there were about 40,000 targeted adults
who did not have health insurance.

Of those, it was estimated, about half were not U.S. citizens. How many of those
were illegal immigrants was unclear.

Those figures were for adults only. Children   whether here illegally or not, or
whether they were U.S. citizens born to parents here illegally   were not
included because they already had a functioning health care safety net financed
by the county and its taxpayers.

When questions were raised about the impact of illegal immigration on the
county's increasingly ambitious and well-intentioned health care effort at that
time, there was little reaction.

One county honcho simply dismissed the topic as "a hot-button issue that comes
and goes." End of discussion. After all, the economy was strong. Unemployment
was low. Tax revenues were flowing.

Then things changed. Today, the county and state are hurting big time. It's as
bad economically as any of us have seen in our lifetimes.

That appears to be one of the rationales for the grand jury's recommendations,
which also include cutbacks in services for certain categories of the poor and
other uninsured adults.

Naturally, there were immediate cries of pain. Humanitarian concerns were
paramount. If these folks are here, runs the logic, their medical needs should
be addressed.

If not, supporters of the illegal residents believe, a lack of preventive care
and prenatal assistance will only lead to public health costs for the population
at large. And, besides, it's the right thing to do in a civilized society.

Maybe so. But there can be little doubt that the county's generous
health-benefits package can be a magnet for people without means and without
proper immigration status.

If nothing else, the grand jury recommendations deserve a thorough and unbiased
discussion. However, early returns indicate that such an honest conversation may
not be in the political cards. For the county's taxpayers   and legal residents
that would be a shame.

Devastating critique

Another hot topic throughout the county continues to draw fire on all sides of
the debate.

High-speed rail, a proposed system that would run from San Diego to Sacramento
and San Francisco, is front and center now. The project would become an integral
part of an expanded Caltrain corridor.

This month, Liam Julian, a fellow at the Hoover Institution, produced a lengthy
and devastating critique of the many questionable assumptions involved in the
plans for high-speed rail nationally and, in particular, Florida and California.

It can be found at www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review /article/5296.
However, Julian's work does not address a key issue for Peninsula residents:
High-speed rail's intimate relationship with Caltrain.

Contact John Horgan at jhorg@hotmail.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday

Redwood City man convicted of impersonating federal official

BYLINE: By Shaun Bishop Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 359 words


A Redwood City man was convicted of impersonating a federal immigration official
and trying to extort thousands of dollars from six illegal immigrants, the U.S.
Attorney's Office said Thursday.

Federal prosecutors said Frank Salvador Solorza, 46, and others claimed to be
officials from a government immigration agency and demanded money from six
people to "clear up the immigration status of each individual."

After five hours of deliberation, a jury Wednesday convicted Solorza of
conspiracy, impersonation of a federal officer and attempted extortion by a
federal official, prosecutors said. Solorza will face federal prison time when
he is sentenced Sept. 15.

"Individuals who cloak themselves with apparent federal authority in order to
victimize vulnerable people will be brought to justice," U.S. Attorney Joseph
Russoniello said in a statement.

Prosecutors said Solorza conspired with others to send letters purportedly from
a government agency to six people, demanding a total of $50,000, and threatened
to deport them if they didn't pay.

When the victims received the letters, they contacted U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement (ICE), which launched an investigation. U.S. Attorney's
Office spokesman Jack Gillund confirmed the victims were in the country
illegally, but said he did not know what happened to them after they contacted
ICE.

Solorza and others arranged a time and place to pick up the money from the
victims, officials said. When Solorza tried to collect the money, he was wearing
a clown suit as a disguise and riding a child's bicycle, prosecutors said. He
was arrested by federal agents.

"While part of this defendant's deception involved dressing as a clown, his
actions are no laughing matter," Mark Wollman, special agent in charge of ICE's
Homeland Security Investigations office in San Francisco, said in a statement.
Wollman said residents should ask to see credentials from anyone claiming to
represent the federal government.

A grand jury indicted Solorza on the federal charges last October. He posted
bond after he was arrested and is out of custody pending sentencing.

E-mail Shaun Bishop at sbishop@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday

San Jose immigrant arrested at SFO on Honduras rape charge

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg San Mateo County Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 222 words


An undocumented alien who had been living in San Jose was arrested at San
Francisco International Airport on Thursday night on charges that he raped a
woman in Honduras, authorities said Friday.

The 42-year-old immigrant arrived at SFO for a flight to El Salvador when U.S.
Customs and Border Protection officers arrested him without incident, said CBP
spokesman Ed Low.

The officers found that Interpol had issued a warrant for his arrest in 2005 on
suspicion of a rape he reportedly committed in Honduras.

"They were looking at the outbound manifest for anything unusual, and they found
this, and they went and grabbed the person at the gate," Low said.

The officers turned him over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents, who
will work with the Honduran government to deport him there to face potential
charges.

Authorities said they would not release the man's name, citing privacy policies
and the potential for litigation.

Low did not know what the man had been doing in the Bay Area or why he was going
to El Salvador, which borders Honduras in Central America. Further information
on the crime was also unavailable.

"This arrest demonstrates the diligent work that CBP officers continue to
display at ports of entry to keep the public safe," CBP San Francisco Director
of Field Operations Leticia Romero said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 16, 2010 Friday

Opinion: Navarrette: Silent immigration reform

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 466 words


The Obama administration thinks it has discovered a kinder and gentler way to
remove illegal immigrants from the workplace. Instead of rounding them up, the
administration simply frightens employers into firing them.

Problem solved. Or is it? Conservatives think the exercise is pointless because
illegal workers who have been dismissed simply move on and take other jobs down
the road. Liberals are just as upset because they consider the
government-applied pressure heavy-handed and say that unemployed workers can't
provide for their families. Civil libertarians insist that, as word spreads,
employers might eventually not hire anyone they suspect of being an illegal
immigrant, which could lead to discrimination against Hispanics. And business
groups are likewise incensed because the government is leaving them with a
worker shortage and a raft of jobs that Americans won't do.

Near the top of that list, you'll find agricultural jobs. Federal labor
officials estimate that more than 60 percent of farmworkers in the United States
are illegal immigrants.

Trying to drive home a point, the United Farm Workers of America   with the help
of comedian Stephen Colbert   are inviting unemployed Americans and
anti-immigrant pundits to put up or shut up. They suggest taking jobs away from
farmworkers. Interested parties are urged to apply for the thousands of
agricultural jobs being posted with state agencies as harvest season begins.

As someone who grew up in Central California, and who spent my first summer home
from college lugging 35-pound boxes of plums and nectarines in an outdoor
packing house, I love the UFW campaign. Too many Americans are so far removed
from their agrarian roots that they've convinced themselves that the reason
young people aren't out picking asparagus is because the wages are low rather
than because the work is backbreaking. This experiment will clear up the
confusion.

Meanwhile, immigrant rights groups have been privately complaining that
President Obama spent the first 18 months of his presidency mimicking workplace
raids conducted under George W. Bush.

According to the New York Times, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has levied
a record $3 million in civil fines on businesses that hired unauthorized
immigrants. As a result, thousands of workers have been fired, immigrant groups
say

Naturally, the workers are upset because they got fired and may not find other
employment. But these people broke the law and shouldn't be here in the first
place, so it's especially galling for them to somehow believe they're entitled
to a job.

We don't need to hear that nonsense from foreign workers. We already hear enough
of it from the native-born   which, by the way, is how we wound up with so many
foreign workers.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 19, 2010 Sunday

San Mateo family struggles to stay together as U.S. deports dad, tries to deport
mom

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 1934 words


Two weeks before Christmas 2008 in the surreal light of dawn, Yvette
Jimenez-Mota heard the heavy boots, stern voices and mysterious whispers.

"I kind of ignored it because I thought it was part of my dream," she recalls.
So the teenager went back to sleep, only to wake up to a nightmare.

Her mom was weeping.

"They took him," she told her daughter, who was 16 at the time.

"Took who?" a bewildered Yvette asked.

"La migra. Immigration," her mom replied. "They took your dad."

And soon they would try to take her mom too.

Both of Yvette's parents came to this country as illegal immigrants, but she and
her five younger siblings are all U.S. citizens because they were born here.

And they are far from unique. Last year, 4 million children who are U.S.
citizens had at least one parent living in the country illegally, according to a
study released in August by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, D.C. The
nonpartisan research group also found that 8 percent of the 4.3 million babies
born in the U.S. in 2008 had at least one undocumented parent.

The statistics bear witness to one of the thorniest dilemmas in the incendiary
debate over illegal immigration: What should the government do with the parents
of all these American kids?

Should it simply deport all illegal immigrants detected by authorities and thus
break up nuclear families, potentially throwing children into the welfare and
foster-care systems? Should it just wink at some illegal immigration and thus
encourage more?

The Jimenez-Mota family of San Mateo allowed a Mercury News reporter and
photographer to follow their lives for the past year after the father was
deported and while the mother fought to stay with her children. Their
emotionally exhausting journey provides a window into the world of "mixed
status" families.

What it illustrates is that until this summer, immigration officials were just
as aggressive under the Obama administration as they were under President George
W. Bush in enforcing all deportation cases. It shows the economic and spiritual
decline of a family torn apart, straddling two countries. And the months of
anxiety and uncertainty show the harm done to the kids, whose lives hung in the
balance, buffeted by forces outside their control.

Until that cold December morning, Yvette had never seen her eldest brother cry.
But Victor's eyes welled up when Yvette explained that their solidly
middle-class life in San Mateo was over -- that they needed to think about how
to support their family now that their father, their breadwinner, was being
deported to Mexico.

Yvette's mind that day went wild with "what ifs."

What if she had to drop out of high school to replace the income of her dad, who
for as long as she could remember worked two full-time jobs?

What if her mom were also deported? What if she had to raise her brothers and
sisters herself? Worse, what if her brothers and sisters were divvied up between
foster homes?

"That day matured me 10 times quicker than any other teenager," Yvette said. "I
was just flat-out terrified."

Victor Jimenez and Macrina Mota-Pineda had lived together on the Peninsula for
nearly two decades. They fell in love after one of Jimenez's cousins introduced
them in San Mateo in 1990.

Jimenez became a waiter and a chef and managed a Round Table Pizza outlet. As
their family grew, he juggled two jobs and worked seven days a week. Mota-Pineda
volunteered in community and church groups and in her children's schools.

"Life was beautiful," said Mota-Pineda, 40. "God had graced us."

First the father, then mother, face deportation

It all changed in June 2001 when Jimenez wrecked his car after having too many
beers with friends after work and was booked for drunken driving. It was his
first run-in with the law, but authorities discovered he was undocumented. He
spent seven months in San Mateo County Jail and an immigration prison in
Arizona.

After he was released, Jimenez fought deportation for seven years, costing the
family more than $25,000. To win his case, he had to prove three things: He was
of good moral character. He had lived in the country continuously for at least
10 years. And that separation from his children would result in "exceptional and
extremely unusual hardship" -- a tough standard that Congress enacted in 1996.

An immigration judge in San Francisco ruled that he met the first two, but not
the third -- a decision that was upheld on appeal years later. But Mota-Pineda
says their lawyer, who was subsequently disbarred, never informed them of the
final deportation order. So agents from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
grabbed Jimenez as he left for work about 4:30 a.m. on Dec. 11, 2008.

ICE agents then discovered that Mota-Pineda was also in the country illegally.
Later that day, they slapped an electronic tracking bracelet on her ankle.

After Jimenez, then 40, was deported, his family couldn't pay their $3,000
monthly rent and moved to a motel, then into a Menlo Park shelter. Four months
later, they rented a cramped San Mateo apartment.

A family that had always been proud that it never accepted public assistance was
now on welfare and food stamps.

"We felt humiliated," Yvette said. "I still remember the first time I had to use
the food-stamp card. I thought everybody was looking at me."

Her father, meanwhile, was eking out a living in Mexico, drifting from town to
town in search of work and calling home once a week. His family didn't tell him
that Yvette had tried to overdose on sleeping pills days after he was deported.

Yvette had struggled with depression since she was 12 and had attempted suicide
once before during her father's court ordeal.

Her mother made sure her daughter stayed in therapy and took anti-depressants.
But, Yvette said, she found "the best medication" was getting involved in the
politics of immigration reform through the PICO National Network and its local
affiliate, Peninsula Interfaith Action. She began speaking out at rallies,
something that made her mother proud.

On the morning of Nov. 20, Mota-Pineda appeared with her new attorney, Jonathan
Dunten, in immigration court in San Francisco and began trying to persuade Judge
Miriam Hayward to let her stay in this country.

Two teachers from San Mateo's Aragon High School testified how both Yvette and
Victor were college-bound students. The athletic director talked about how
16-year-old Victor, a running back and linebacker on the football team, had
assumed the role as the man of the family.

But one of Mota-Pineda's children, 15-year-old Noé, struggles with learning
disabilities. So the judge decided to continue the hearing until March so that
Noé could be further evaluated -- a postponement that gave Dunten hope because
the judge seemed convinced the children, Noé in particular, would suffer if they
had to move to Mexico with their mother.

"She wasn't like a judge," Mota-Pineda said as she emerged from the courtroom.
"She was like a human being."

Strong daughter reaches the breaking point

But December was the cruelest month -- a stark reminder of when Dad was deported
during the holidays the year before. Christmas had been the only season the
children really got to be with their father because that's when he took time
off.

On top of all this, Yvette, who was working 24 hours a week at a retirement
home, had to decide which colleges to apply to as she grappled with the thought
she might not be able to go at all. In what she later characterized as a cry for
help, she slit her wrists and ended up in the emergency room.

She says it was really hard to hear about other girls who got full scholarships
to four-year colleges even though their parents made lots of money. "Hello," she
thought, "why can't that be me?"

On March 16, her mom was back in court and spent about three hours on the stand,
often dabbing the tears that ran down her cheeks as she told how her father was
murdered when she was 12 when he tried to stand up to drug dealers.

Fearing that they would also kill other family members, she testified, her
family was forced to flee from city to city. Eventually, Mota-Pineda told the
judge, her mom told her and a sister that their only refuge was in the United
States. So she sent two of her daughters north while she moved to another city
and changed her identity.

Judge's decision ends long ordeal -- or does it?

Two weeks later, after the final hearing, Judge Hayward concluded that
separating the children from their mother would be "unconscionable," saying that
Mota-Pineda was "the glue that holds this family together." She strongly advised
government attorney Nancy Liu not to appeal the decision, saying that ICE
attorneys had "worn out your welcome" at the Board of Immigration Appeals by
appealing virtually every deportation case.

Mota-Pineda was ecstatic. Yvette, however, was worried about Hayward's decision
being overturned.

ICE attorneys had 30 days to appeal. And they waited until the last day to do
it. Among other things, they argued that since Yvette had just turned 18, she
was mature enough to take care of her siblings.

Yvette and her mother slipped back into depression for months -- a cloud that
lifted only when the government's chief immigration lawyer in San Francisco
unexpectedly decided in mid-July not to pursue the case after all.

It was a case of lucky timing. ICE chief John Morton on June 30 had issued a
memo reminding his staff to make its top priority identifying and deporting
"aliens who pose a danger to national security or a risk to public safety."
Morton made clear that he felt ICE shouldn't waste tax dollars on cases it would
probably lose.

"On a daily basis, ICE receives artillery fire from both the left and the right
side of the political spectrum, but our focus remains on finding successful,
common-sense solutions with limited resources," Morton told the Mercury News
last month.

Mother and children share freedom's joy

"I'm free," Mota-Pineda told Noé and 5-year-old Diego, a precocious child with a
mischievous smile, on the day she learned of the government's decision not to
appeal. Both children began jumping and crying.

Yvette had left that morning for a spiritual retreat near Santa Rosa, part of
her treatment for depression. So Mota-Pineda raced up to Sonoma County to share
the joy with her and bring her home.

"Now you can go to college without having to worry about all this," she told her
daughter as they hugged each other for several minutes and wept.

Yvette had gotten into seven schools, including San Jose State University and
Mills College. But before getting the good news about her mom, she had decided
to go to nearby Cañada College, figuring she could live at home.

Her mother felt guilty because she knew her daughter wasn't putting her
education first. "It's not fair that she is sacrificing her future and her
dreams because of my immigration issues," said Mota-Pineda, who now works as a
secretary, caterer, baby sitter, translator and housekeeper.

But Yvette said she doesn't regret the decision: "It just wasn't a good time to
leave my family."

The family's victory was tempered by the fact that Dad was still stuck in
Mexico. And Dunten told Mota-Pineda it will be tough to get him home because
he's barred from re-entering the country until 2018. The government sometimes
grants waivers, but Dunten says that could take as long as five years.

Yvette said she realized months ago that things will never be the same for her
family. "It's like breaking a glass and trying to glue it back together," she
said. "There's just too many cracks."

Mercury News photojournalist Dai Sugano contributed to this report. Contact Ken
McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MUTED CELEBRATION | After the government dropped its appeal against
their mother, Macrina, right, Yvette, left, and sister Alondra were relieved.
But their happiness is tempered by the fact that their father is still in
Mexico.
A GOOD NEWS DAY | Macrina Mota-Pineda hugs her children from left, Diego, Nicole
and Alondra on March 30 after learning that a San Francisco immigration judge
had decided to let her stay in the United States. Thirty days later and at the
eleventh hour, the government filed an appeal to have the ruling overturned.
SPEAKING OUT | With her mother and siblings there for support, Yvette
Jimenez-Mota describes her family s struggle during a prayer service for
immigration reform at San Francisco s Grace Cathedral in February.
PAIN OF SEPARATION | Yvette, now 18, is comforted by family friend Lupita Roldan
after speaking by phone with her father, who was deported to Mexico.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 20, 2010 Monday

Federal maneuverings revive controversial immigration bill for youth

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Matt Krupnick Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2076 words


By Matt O'Brien and Matt Krupnick

Staff Writers

BERKELEY -- Nobody but Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid can know for sure why
the Nevada Democrat is trying to bring the long-debated DREAM Act to a vote on
Capitol Hill this month, but maybe Krsna Avila had something to do with it.

The UC Davis graduate from Oakland has spent years fighting to pass the DREAM
Act, which would give legal status to tens of thousands of undocumented
immigrants -- including Avila -- brought to the country illegally before they
were 16.

Avila and other California student activists have lobbied politicians and
university leaders and outed themselves as illegal immigrants to raise
awareness. Some risked arrest and deportation to stage sit-ins at the
congressional offices of Reid and other lawmakers this summer. At UC Berkeley,
dozens met with Chancellor Robert Birgeneau last month, gaining the support of a
friend in a high place.

"We need a breakthrough in politics for undocumented students," Birgeneau said.
"We cannot afford to waste this level of talent when we're facing these kinds of
challenges in California."

Reid has proposed adding the bill as an amendment to an annual defense
authorization bill; a vote is expected Tuesday whether to add the amendment.
Reid may also try to attach another controversial amendment -- the repeal of the
military's don't ask, don't tell policy on gay armed forces members -- to the
same defense bill. If added to the defense bill, the amendments would be voted
on later this month.

For Avila and others like him, the stakes on the DREAM Act are high.

The 22-year-old grew up in East Oakland after his parents brought him to the
United States as a 4-month-old from Mexico.

"I didn't really have a say in it. I was obviously too young to have a choice,"
Avila said. "I have no idea what Mexico is like. Whenever somebody asks me, I
don't say I'm from Mexico. I say I'm American. I don't know the place. I don't
have any memories of it."

Avila found out he was here illegally when he began thinking about college as a
teenager at Skyline High School in Oakland.

His parents obtained permanent legal residency in 2003, making a gamble on a
hard-to-get route to citizenship that could have put them in deportation
proceedings if their application failed. They immediately petitioned to add
their son, who was 16 at the time.

But there was such a long backlog of immigration requests from Mexico that the
application process was continuously delayed. Avila turned 21, aging out of his
eligibility for legal status as a minor child of legal immigrants. He was
instead placed in another category for adult children of legal immigrants, which
has an even higher backlog. It will be at least a decade, Avila has been told,
before he can expect an answer to his parent's request to get him a green card.

In the meantime, he cannot work legally. He graduated from UC Davis this year
with degrees in psychology and sociology. He has been fighting for the DREAM Act
-- raising awareness on campus, contacting educators and politicians -- for
about as long as he has known about it.

"In 2007, I got my hopes up. It was really heartbreaking when I found out it
didn't pass," Avila said.

His hope is more measured this year. Many DREAM Act student activists in the Bay
Area say they are wary of the political maneuverings happening a little more
than 40 days before the midterm elections, but they are doing whatever they can
to get on-the-fence lawmakers on their side.

If the DREAM Act is passed, it has been estimated that more than 500,000
California children and adults under 35 would be eligible for it -- from
twenty-somethings like Avila to elementary school students still not aware of
what it means to be undocumented.

"A third of our student body would be instantly transformed," said Aaron
Townsend, principal of Coliseum College Prep, a middle and high school in East
Oakland.

Being undocumented is a financial and emotional barrier to many of his students,
holding back their aspirations for "what's possible in life," Townsend said.
Many still excel despite these barriers, he said, including the three
highest-ranked students in the school's first graduating class who all lack
legal immigration status. But once they graduate, many become paralyzed by the
challenges of living in the shadows.

All beneficiaries of the DREAM Act, as it is currently proposed, must have been
brought to the United States before they were 16 years old. They must graduate
from high school or pass the GED to get a conditional green card that lasts for
six years. Then, they must enroll in college or enlist in the military, spending
at least two years pursuing a higher education or serving honorably in the armed
forces before they can get permanent legal residency.

The bill, if made into law, would be unprecedented -- never before has an
immigration law been specifically tied to the educational attainment or military
service of young people. But opponents say it is merely a ploy, a softer form of
amnesty for illegal immigrants that tugs at the heartstrings but ends up
encouraging more illegal immigration.

"It's a massive amnesty bill cloaked as an educational initiative for kids,"
said Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which advocates
restricting immigration. "In reality, it's a sweeping legislation for a very
large proportion of the illegal population."

Some have argued the lack of a DREAM Act will make it difficult for the country
to meet President Barack Obama's goal to increase the number of college
graduates dramatically in the next decade. Without federal student aid, students
have trouble staying in school, counselors said.

"They struggle," said Bill Fracisco, a counselor at Los Medanos College in
Pittsburg. The DREAM Act "would be a blessing for the students."

In California, undocumented students can take advantage of a law allowing them
to pay in-state tuition at public colleges and universities if they meet certain
criteria. But many of those students are afraid to disclose their illegal
status, Fracisco said, even if it would significantly reduce the cost of school.


"I know there's a big need," he said. "They're afraid that if they slip up, then
boom, they'll get deported."

Even those who overcome the hurdle of getting to college have troubles later.

Blanca Hernandez moved back in with her family in Richmond after graduating from
UC Davis.

"Because of my status, it's been completely impossible for me to get a job, to
exercise my degree," Hernandez said. "If I worked right now, it would have to be
under the table. I don't have a Social Security number."

Working under the table is what she used to do, paying for her higher education
by working at an East Bay gas station when she wasn't in class.

Hernandez studied Chicano studies and social policy at UC Davis. She wanted to
study international relations, but changed her major because she could not leave
the country to study abroad -- if she did, she'd never be let back in. She wants
to go to law school, but is not sure how she'll pay for it.

The 27-year-old moved to California from Mexico when she was 6 and grew up in
Richmond. Her parents, like Avila's, have become legal residents, but the
backlog to join them is long.

"I don't have 15 years to wait," Hernandez said. "I can't put my life on hold
for 15 years."

Avila also cannot wait, but still considers himself luckier than many of his
peers who are also here illegally and lack financial support from their
families.

"My parents are citizens, so they are able to get a job and pay for my
education," Avila said. "That's the reason I was able to go through college. If
it wasn't for that, it would have been even harder."

Avila has many undocumented friends in the East Bay who dropped out of school
because of financial hardships. He knows others who would join the military if
they could.

"A lot of my friends from high school that I knew, that didn't make it to
college, they were trying to enlist in the military and weren't able to, just
because of (their status)," Avila said. "That's their personal choice. If
someone wants to go to the military, I don't see why they should deny them."

Gabriela Monico's father brought her to the United States from El Salvador when
she was 15, just five years ago, hoping his daughter would find better
opportunities here.

Monico could barely speak English in her first year at Azusa High School in
Southern California. But by senior year, after convincing school administrators
to let her into tougher classes, she was storming through AP exams in English,
history, calculus and the sciences and earned acceptance to UC Berkeley.

Monico dropped out in her second year at Berkeley because she could not afford
the tuition anymore, but some professors let her continue to attend classes.
This year, a private scholarship has helped Monico re-enroll at the university,
but her future remains uncertain. She also wants to go to law school someday.

"If (the DREAM Act) doesn't pass, I will graduate from Berkeley but I won't have
the opportunity to have a decent job," Monico said. "I'll be working menial
jobs, but I have the potential to do so much more. ... It's something that
really terrifies me."

The DREAM Act has traditionally had bipartisan support but was often held back
by lawmakers and advocates who favored a more comprehensive immigration
overhaul. It continues to have the backing of some high-profile Republicans.
Colin Powell endorsed the DREAM Act in a television interview Sunday. California
GOP gubernatorial candidate Carly Fiorina announced her support at a debate at
St. Mary's College in Moraga this month.

"I do not believe we can punish children who are here, through no fault of their
own, trying to live the American dream," Fiorina said.

But the measure, at least the way it has been proposed by Reid, has also lost
the support of key conservative backers. Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, one of the
lawmakers who introduced the DREAM Act nine years ago, has said he will not vote
in its favor this fall. Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, who co-sponsored the DREAM
Act three times since 2003, has argued that inserting it into the defense bill
is inappropriate.

Dane, the spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, believes
that Reid, who faces a tough re-election fight, has made a cynical move that is
unlikely to succeed.

"It's going to give him bragging rights back to his much-needed Hispanic voting
base back in Nevada," Dane said. If the bill fails, its defeat will be used to
show Latino voters that Republicans are anti-immigrant, Dane said. Dane doubts,
however, that many moderate Democrats are going to take the risk of backing Reid
on such a hot-button topic.

"You've got to wonder if they're going to fall off a cliff just to help him win
an election in Nevada," Dane said.

DREAM Act proponents are willing to believe the last-ditch move could work. On
Sunday and Monday, undocumented Bay Area students and their supporters gathered
at phone-banking offices in San Francisco and Berkeley to draft letters to
lawmakers and call their offices. Many of the activists feel that this month's
vote will be their last chance in a long time to get the DREAM Act passed.

"I really think the actions in D.C. in July contributed to us being able to get
DREAM Act as a down payment toward comprehensive immigrant reform, a first
step," said Michelle Romero, organizer of the Bay Area DREAM Act Coalition. "We
are hopeful. Every year presents its own challenges, given the political climate
of the time."

Matt O'Brien covers immigration. Reach him at 925-977-8463. Matt Krupnick covers
higher education. Reach him at 925-943-8246.

Entered the United States before age 16 Obtained a high school diploma or passed
a high school equivalency exam Are younger than 35 at the time the act is passed
Lived in the country continuously for at least five years Enrolled in college or
joined the military after obtaining a diploma or passing a high school
equivalency exam

California: 553,000 (26 percent of nationwide total) Texas: 258,000 (12 percent)
Florida: 192,000 (9 percent) New York: 145,000 (7 percent) Arizona: 114,000 (5
percent)Source: Estimates by the Migration Policy Institute, July 2010

Attend a California high school for three or more years graduate from a
California high school, or attain a GED Register or enroll at a California
public college or university File affidavits declaring intent to apply for legal
residency.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Lawyer: Whitman knew for years her housekeeper was illegal immigrant

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin, Josh Richman and Steve Harmon Bay Area News Group

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 1221 words


The morning after the first debate of the governor's race, and six days before
mail ballots go out, Meg Whitman woke up to a candidate's nightmare.

In an explosive allegation that rocked the tech billionaire's campaign, her
former housekeeper said Whitman knew for years she was an illegal immigrant but
fired her only after deciding to run for governor.

"I felt she was throwing me away like a piece of garbage," Nicandra Diaz
Santillan, of Union City, said in a tearful news conference. She alleged Whitman
said when she fired her, "You have never seen me, and I've never seen you."

The housekeeper's high-profile attorney, Gloria Allred, said her 39-year-old
client was "exploited, disrespected, humiliated and emotionally and financially
abused" by the former eBay CEO, who is running against Democrat Jerry Brown.

Even before the news conference was held in Los Angeles, Whitman's campaign
dismissed the allegation as politically motivated, noting that Allred, a
Democrat, has a history of injecting eleventh-hour accusations into campaigns.

"Everything Gloria Allred is saying is a lie," Whitman told reporters during a
campaign appearance at Cisco Systems in San Jose. She added that Diaz was "being
manipulated, and I'm sorry for that."

Allred's allegation that Whitman ignored requests from federal officials to
determine Diaz's immigration status could upend what has been a campaign
juggernaut -- provoking charges that Whitman has been hypocritical on
immigration, broke the law and sought to cover up her misdeeds.

On the campaign trail, and as recently as Tuesday night's debate with Brown,
Whitman has called for tougher sanctions against employers who hire illegal
workers.

"We do have to hold employers accountable," she said at the debate.

Allred also accused Whitman of cheating Diaz out of years' worth of wages,
implying she used the maid's illegal status as leverage. Allred has filed a
claim with the state against Whitman, which if supported could lead to fines and
restitution.

Allred intends to fire another shot this morning.

"Now that she has denied it, we will release (more) evidence tomorrow," Allred
said late Wednesday in an e-mail to the Mercury News.

The allegations also came just before Saturday's scheduled debate in Fresno,
where Brown and Whitman will be questioned by a panel of Latino journalists.
Attracting Latino voters is key if Whitman hopes to overcome the Democratic
Party's statewide registration advantage.

"This has to hurt badly," said Jaime Regalado, director of the Pat Brown
Institute of Public Affairs at Cal State  Los Angeles.

Allred said at the news conference that the Social Security Administration sent
Whitman a letter dated April 22, 2003, saying the Social Security number
provided for Diaz did not match the name on file.

Allred said Diaz was told to "check on this" but was never asked again about it.
Diaz also says that for several more years, Whitman received other letters from
the Social Security Administration but threw them in the trash.

Whitman, however, told reporters that she hadn't received any such
correspondence.

She added that Diaz was hired through an employment agency she relied on to
check the worker's information.

Asked repeatedly for the name of the agency, the Whitman campaign declined to
release it.

Lowell Kepke, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, said in an
e-mail to the Mercury News that he couldn't confirm or deny that a "no-match
letter" was sent to Whitman's household because "wage and tax data" is protected
by the Internal Revenue Code.

Whitman said she fired Diaz as soon as the housekeeper admitted in June 2009
that she was in the country illegally. "No one could've been more stunned than I
was," Whitman said.

Asked why she had never used the story during the campaign as an example of how
employers can be duped, she said: "It never came up." She added that she was
reluctant to single out Diaz as an example, given that the housekeeper had been
so close to Whitman's family.

Whitman said the incident underscores the need for an electronic verification
system to check workers' documentation.

Because Diaz could face deportation by coming forward, Allred called her
client's decision to speak out "the most courageous decision I've seen in 35
years of practicing law."

Allred said she was only recently contacted by Diaz, who got her name from
another attorney.

The Diaz Santillan family lives in a tidy house in a quiet neighborhood of
Latino and Asian families in Union City. A next-door neighbor remembered that
the family moved in about two or three years ago and kept to themselves.

"They seem like very nice people," said Remedio Zimmerman.

A young man at the house declined to comment, saying Allred's office had told
family members not to talk to the media.

Allred said Diaz in August 2000 was hired to work 15 hours a week at $23 an hour
to clean Whitman's 3,700 square-foot Atherton house. But soon, "nanny duties
were added to her job," including running errands for which her client was not
reimbursed.

According to Allred, Diaz complained that she couldn't perform all her duties in
15 hours per week, but the housekeeper "was told that 15 hours a week was all
that she would be paid for."

Mark Thierman, a Reno-based employment lawyer, said Diaz' claim would seem to
fall under California Industrial Welfare Commission regulations for household
employee compensation. Those rules put the burden of proof on the employer in
such disputes.

"If the employer fails to keep records, then whatever the employee says in 'just
and reasonable inferences' is to be believed," he said.

The agency's website says such claims may result in formal or informal hearings
between the parties and, ultimately, orders for payment, which can be appealed
to a civil court.

The allegations also play into the characterization of Whitman as a bullying CEO
who mistreats those below her. Earlier this year, a New York Times story
reported that she had to pay a $200,000 settlement for shoving an eBay employee.

Whitman's hopes of containing the potential damage rests on whether Allred can
prove that Whitman knew Diaz was an undocumented worker, said John Pitney,
government professor at Claremont McKenna College.

"The open question is whether people will see this as a legitimate outpouring of
somebody in difficult straits or if they're being manipulated by the Brown
campaign," Pitney said.

Brown's campaign kept its distance from the allegations for much of the day,
sensitive to charges Allred is trying to bolster the former governor, to whom
she has contributed $1,150 over the years. She said on CNN in 2007 that she
knows Brown "personally," though she reportedly supported Bill Clinton in the
1992 presidential elections.

Brown spokesman Sterling Clifford later said in a statement that Whitman
apparently thinks the rules don't apply to her.

"From the start, Meg Whitman has failed to tell Californians the truth -- about
her voting record, her positions on climate change, her history of conflict with
staffers or about Jerry Brown."

Clifford said Brown and his wife use a well-known national housekeeping service
that comes twice a month to their home in the Oakland Hills.

Mercury News staff writers Lisa Fernandez, Joe Rodriguez and Brandon Bailey
contributed to this report. Contact Ken McLaughlin at
kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicky Diaz, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial
candidate Meg Whitman, listens as attorney Gloria Allred talks to reporters in
Los Angeles Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified
seven years ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did
nothing about it. (AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
Nicky Diaz, right, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial candidate
Meg Whitman, with attorney Gloria Allred, leaves a news conference in Los
Angeles Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified seven
years ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did nothing
about it. (AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
Nicky Diaz, left, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial candidate
Meg Whitman, talks to reporters with attorney Gloria Allred in Los Angeles
Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified seven years
ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did nothing about it.
(AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
California Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Meg Whitman at the San Jose
Mercury News Tuesday September 21, 2010. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

Opinion: Housekeeper issue dogs Whitman, but will it really change the race?

BYLINE: By Dan Walters Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 472 words


For weeks, Republican Meg Whitman demanded that Jerry Brown, her Democratic
rival for California governor, debate her here in Fresno, clearly hoping it
would shore up support in the GOP-leaning San Joaquin Valley and among Latino
voters, but Brown stalled.

Whitman finally got her wish Saturday night in a bilingual debate sponsored by
Univision, but it quickly became a slugfest as Brown pummeled her on how she
handled a former housekeeper who was an illegal immigrant -- a case that had
erupted just days earlier.

Whitman fired Nicandra Diaz Santillan in June 2009 after, she says, learning
that her employee was an illegal immigrant who had used false documents. But
Diaz Santillan's attorney, Gloria Allred, says a 2003 letter from the Social
Security Administration questioning Diaz Santillan's Social Security number and
containing a note handwritten by Whitman's husband, Griffith Harsh, proves
otherwise.

Most of the questions of the two Saturday dealt with either Diaz Santillan or
other immigration-related issues, the perfect opportunity for Brown, a veteran
political debater, to hammer Whitman as a heartless tycoon.

When Whitman said "Jerry, you know you should be ashamed. You and your
surrogates put her deportation at risk. You put her out there. You should be
ashamed for sacrificing Nicky Diaz on the altar of your political ambitions,"
Brown fired back: "Don't run for governor if you can't stand up on your own two
feet and say, 'Hey, I made a mistake.' ... You have blamed her, blamed me,
blamed the left, blamed the unions, but you don't take accountability."

When he wasn't attacking Whitman on immigration and other Latino-oriented
issues, Brown was pummeling her for proposing to eliminate capital gains taxes
-- a move she says is necessary for the state to climb out of recession but he
says would be a giveaway to billionaires and hurt schools.

Whitman, who had held her own fairly well during their first debate earlier in
the week, was rocked by Saturday's verbal combat.

She could do little but repeat her well-worn campaign phrases -- when she wasn't
defending herself against Brown's relentless assaults. It continued after the
debate as the two talked to reporters outside the Fresno State debate venue.

Whitman accused Brown of not admitting "the role he's played in this whole
political circus," while Brown continued to deny that his campaign had anything
to do with Diaz Santillan's timely accusation. He said Whitman's position is a
"house of cards that seems to be collapsing."

So will the Diaz Santillan affair continue to dominate what has been a very
close contest? Whitman's aides are desperately seeking proof that it's a smear
conjured up by those around Brown. If they find it, it could backfire. Either
way, it's an issue that could change the game.

DAN WALTERS is a Sacramento Bee columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

California lawmaker revives bill to give undocumented students access to
financial aid

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 420 words


A bill that would grant undocumented California students access to financial aid
for higher education is being revived in the state Legislature this week.

The California Dream Act would allow students who are illegal immigrants to
benefit from the same financial aid as other California students attending the
state's public colleges and universities.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, introduced the bill Tuesday based on one
he first proposed as a state senator in 2006. The previous version passed in the
state Senate and Assembly but was vetoed three times by former Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger, a Republican, who said it was too costly given the state's
precarious finances.

Supporters hope they will have better luck now that Gov. Jerry Brown, a
Democrat, is in office.

"He did say before November, before the election, he would sign it," Cedillo
spokesman Conrado Terrazas said. "We are hoping that he will follow through."

Cedillo this year is splitting his proposal into two bills, one of which he said
"will not cost one cent to the state of California." That bill, AB 130, would
make students who are illegal immigrants eligible for the community colleges'
Board of Governors fee waiver and other student aid programs administered by the
public institutions they attend. Since the aid packages come out of a private
pool, making more students eligible does not increase the cost to the state,
Cedillo said.

A separate bill, AB 131, would allow undocumented students, if they are
California residents, to apply for Cal Grants, a state-funded program that gives
low-income students as much as $4,370 a year if they enroll in the California
State University system or up to $11,124 a year in the UC system.

The move comes a day after Brown announced $12.5 billion in planned budget cuts,
including about $1.4 billion in cuts to higher education.

Republican state lawmakers have not seen the bill yet but are likely to oppose
it, as they have in the past, said Jann Taber, spokeswoman for state Senate GOP
Minority Leader Bob Dutton of Rancho Cucamonga.

The state Dream Act would help undocumented students become productive members
of society, said Kate Jeffery, director of student financial support for the
10-campus UC system. "For that category of student, it would fill a big gap,"
she said.

If his bill is approved, Cedillo said California would be the third state to
offer financial aid to undocumented students, after Texas and New Mexico.

Bay Area News Group staff writer Matt Krupnick contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 11, 2011 Tuesday

California lawmaker revives bill that would give undocumented students access to
financial aid

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


A bill that would grant undocumented California students access to financial aid
is being revived in the state Legislature this week.

The California Dream Act would allow students who are illegal immigrants to
benefit from the same financial aid as other California students attending the
state's public colleges and universities.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, introduced the bill Tuesday based on one
he first proposed as a state senator in 2006. The previous version passed in the
state Senate and Assembly but was vetoed three times by former Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger, a Republican, who said it was too costly given the state's
precarious finances.

Supporters hope they will have better luck now that Gov. Jerry Brown, a
Democrat, is in office.

"He did say before November, before the election, he would sign it," said
Cedillo spokesman Conrado Terrazas. "We are hoping that he will follow through."

Cedillo this year is splitting his proposal into two bills, one of which he said
"will not cost one cent to the state of California." That bill, Assembly bill
130, would make students who are illegal immigrants eligible for the community
colleges' Board of Governors fee waiver and other student aid programs
administered by the public institutions they attend. Since the aid packages come
out of a private pool, making more students eligible does not increase the cost
to the state, Cedillo said.

A separate bill, AB 131, would allow undocumented students, if they are
California residents, to apply for Cal Grants, a state-funded program that gives
low-income students as much as $4,370 a year if they enroll in the California
State University system or up to $11,124 a year in the University of California
system. That would cost the state money.

The move comes a day after Brown announced $12.5 billion in planned budget cuts,
including about $1.4 billion in cuts to higher education.

Republican state lawmakers have not seen the bill yet but are likely to oppose
it, as they have in the past, said Jann Taber, spokeswoman for state Senate GOP
Minority Leader Bob Dutton of Rancho Cucamonga.

"The main reason is that it takes sparse resources away from legal California
residents," Taber said.

It is unclear how many undocumented immigrants attend California colleges and
universities, but 42,000 students last year took advantage of a 2001 state law
that allows California residents born elsewhere to pay in-state tuition,
regardless of immigration status. In the UC and Cal State systems, the vast
majority of those students are legal residents, but at least 30,000 undocumented
students attend California's community colleges.

The California Supreme Court affirmed the constitutionality of the in-state
tuition breaks for undocumented students in a November ruling.

The state Dream Act would help undocumented students become productive members
of society, said Kate Jeffery, director of student financial support for the
10-campus UC system. Those students are not eligible for federal financial aid
or loans, she said. "For that category of student, it would fill a big gap," she
said.

If his bill is approved, Cedillo said California would be the third state to
offer financial aid to undocumented students after Texas and New Mexico.

Staff writer Matt Krupnick contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 24, 2011 Monday

Oakland's undocumented drivers can keep their cars; avoid thousands in impound
fees

BYLINE: By Cecily Burt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 664 words


Undocumented immigrants caught driving without a license in Oakland used to pay
hundreds, and sometimes thousands, of dollars in tow and impound fees -- often
racking up lost wages -- before they could get their cars back.

But the police department quietly changed its policy in November, and now
motorists whose immigration status prevents them from obtaining a license are
allowed to sign a waiver and leave their car parked nearby, or call a friend or
family member to immediately come pick it up.

Oakland City Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente, who represents the Glenview and
Fruitvale districts, said the new policy ends a practice that unfairly netted
unintended targets during traffic enforcement operations.

"The purpose was to get drunk drivers, or people with warrants or with guns, but
the unintended consequence was most of the drivers who got cited were unlicensed
immigrant drivers," De La Fuente said. "I remember one night last fall on
Foothill Boulevard and 34th Avenue, about 29 cars were impounded. One was a
family with a baby in the back, and they had to walk home.

"The law is the law, but we can apply it with some sensitivity," De La Fuente
added. "The intent of these actions is definitely to get criminals, not people
who are just trying to work and feed their family."

The change in policy applies only to drivers who have never had a license
because state law forbids it, and not to motorists whose driver's license has
been suspended or allowed to expire. The new policy also does not apply to
drivers who are putting the public at risk by participating in sideshows or
speeding, have warrants or are driving while drunk or on drugs.

Youth leaders with Oakland Community Organizations had pushed for the change in
policy for a few years, said community organizer Emma Paulino. Through their
research, they found that on average, more than 50 cars owned by undocumented
drivers were towed and impounded every month, and the drivers paid an average of
$2,500 to retrieve their vehicles. The policy also made the immigrant community
feel unfairly targeted and distrustful of police.

"It's amazing how many immigrants were caught up in this," she said. "It took
three years of work, with different police chiefs, to get it done."

Berkeley adopted a similar policy in November and San Francisco did so a year
earlier.

According to Lt. Mike Poirier, who gave a report at the Jan. 11 Public Safety
meeting, first-time offenders receive a citation.

If they agree to sign a waiver holding the city harmless for any damage, they
can park their car on a city street and have someone pick it up later if there
is no licensed passenger in the car. If someone is stopped more than once in a
six-month period, the car will be towed, Poirier said.

Last year, the city earned $360,000 in revenue from tow and impound release
fees, but that figure will go down because of the change, Poirier said.

Some towing companies have also seen their business drop since the city changed
its policy.

Ismael Santoyo, of Ismy's Towing in East Oakland, said the new policy, combined
with other changes such as fewer checkpoints being run by the Police Department,
fewer sideshows and allowing drivers whose cars were booted for nonpayment of
parking tickets more time to pay before a tow is called, have nearly put him out
of business. The undocumented tows and impound fees represented about 50 to 60
percent of his business, he said.

"We used to do 100-200 tows a week, now we do 25-50 a week," Santoyo said. "I've
had to lay off three drivers and a mechanic and cut my overhead. I had to stop
insurance on three trucks. Before, the city used the boot only until the tow was
called, but now people have 72 hours to pay."

Santoyo said he recognizes that a big part of his problem will result in a
better situation for fellow Latinos.

"We feel bad because this business is our life, but people drive without a
license because they have to work, they have families and they have to drive,"
he said.

Infobox1

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

Opinion: Leonard Pitts Jr.: Anti-immigrant bills are the equivalent of a
childish rant

BYLINE: By Leonards Pitts Jr. Miami Herald

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 627 words


Here's how you fix illegal immigration.

Pass a bill that: (a) toughens border security; (b) creates some mechanism to
tame the draconian process that now faces anyone who seeks to come here legally;
(c) penalizes those who are here illegally but also offers them a path to full
citizenship.

Or, pass a bill to protect us from anchor babies.

The former solution is not mine, though I support it. It was actually the
solution offered by President George W. Bush in 2007 and crushed in the Senate
that same year. Though flawed, the bill offered at least the framework of a
credible answer to the problem.

The latter solution is the one now being proffered by lawmakers in -- do you
really need to ask? -- Arizona. State lawmakers there began holding hearings
this week on proposals to change the definition of U.S. citizenship. If they
have their way, no longer would you be able to say you were an American simply
because you happened to be born in America.

This is how Arizona legislators would respond to a "problem" that exists largely
in their fevered imaginations: armies of pregnant Mexican women waddling across
the desert to give birth to infants who, having been born in the U.S.,
automatically enjoy the benefits of American citizenship and can confer the same
upon their families.

And here, it is important to establish a few things.

The first is that even if immigrant women were coming here to give birth to
so-called anchor babies -- a claim Politifact.org rates dubious at best -- the
fact is that under existing law, such children can't sponsor their parents for
citizenship until they turn 21. Even then, the parents are required to return
home for 10 years before applying for citizenship.

The second is that what Arizona lawmakers are doing is the very definition of
political masturbation. States do not define citizenship. The federal government
does.

The third is that any law Arizona does pass would be unlikely to survive its
first court challenge. The 14th Amendment clearly defines a citizen as person
"born or naturalized" in the United States. Any attempt to tamper with that
amendment should alarm all Americans but particularly African-Americans, given
that it is the 14th Amendment, along with the 13th and 15th, that anchored our
citizenship and provided the legal basis for Brown v. Board of Education, the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

For all that, the most striking thing about the Arizona proposals -- and CNN
reports that 40 other states are weighing similar measures -- is not their
overreach but their shrill incoherence. It is worth noting that this is the 25th
anniversary of an actual immigration amnesty signed into law by none other than
President Ronald Reagan.

That this icon of conservatism would, like Bush, find himself so strikingly out
of step with his followers today testifies eloquently to how strident,
nonsensical and unpragmatic this debate has become. Rather than offer workable
solutions, lawmakers are busy outlawing ethnic studies classes, requiring
Latinos to carry papers like Jews in prewar Germany, decrying anchor babies and
other boogeymen, competing to prove who can be toughest on dirt-poor Mexicans,
rousing the rabble in their xenophobic righteousness.

This is not statesmanship. It is not serious policymaking. It is not even adult.

It is a temper tantrum, the incoherent bawling of those who see fundamental
demographic change coming and like it not one bit. They scream in the face of an
incoming wave. But the wave comes just the same.

And the sad thing is, none of this angst and anguish was ever necessary. We
could have fixed illegal immigration long ago.

Unfortunately, that's no longer the point. Maybe it never really was.

LEONARD PITTS JR. is a Miami Herald columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday

LAPD eases rules for vehicle impound

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


LOS ANGELES -- Police said that they are changing rules for impounding cars of
unlicensed drivers at sobriety checkpoints, after critics argued that the
department was targeting illegal immigrants.

Calling it "the right thing to do," Chief Charlie Beck said he eased the rules
after immigrant rights groups brought up the issue in recent meetings, the Los
Angeles Times reported.

Previous protocols called for officers at checkpoints to impound a car whenever
the driver did not have a valid license, whether or not the driver was drunk.

Under the new guidelines, police will attempt to contact the registered owner of
a stopped vehicle. If that owner is a licensed driver who can respond in a
"reasonable period," the car will be released to them. The unlicensed driver
still will be cited.

Immigration advocacy groups said the old rules disproportionately targeted
undocumented immigrants, who are not able to obtain licenses legally in most
states. Once a vehicle is impounded, law enforcement agencies often require it
to remain locked up for at least a month and charge the owner hefty fees to
release it.

The LAPD checkpoint policy had "stuck in my craw as one of the things we weren't
doing the right way," Beck told the L.A. Times. "There is a fairness issue here
"... and we're trying to balance the needs of all segments of our community and
keep the roads safe."

The change, which the department announced last week, is likely to anger groups
that support strict enforcement of immigration laws.

The L.A. Times said efforts to contact representatives of several of those
groups for comment were unsuccessful.

The new rules, Beck said, were an attempt to mitigate somewhat "the current
reality, which is that for a vast number of people, who are a valuable asset to
our community and who have very limited resources, their ability to live and
work in L.A. is severely limited by their immigration status."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 23, 2011 Wednesday

Agents nab illegal immigrants dressed as Marines

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


SAN DIEGO -- The illegal immigrants donned Marine Corps camouflage uniforms and
military-style buzz cuts. The license plates on their van had been switched from
Mexican to U.S. government plates. If anyone asked, they were Marines traveling
to March Air Reserve Base.

But their ploy didn't take into account the possibility of being stopped by a
U.S. Border Patrol agent who was an ex-Marine armed with a simple question. The
agent, S. Smith, asked the driver to tell him the birthday of the Marine Corps.
The driver, Arturo Leyva, didn't know.

Border Patrol Agent "Smith knows the (Marine Corps) birthday is one of the first
things taught to all Marines in basic training. At that time, BPA Smith knew
Leyva's claim of being a U.S. Marine was false," according to a criminal
complaint from a smuggling case filed last week in federal court.

On the night of March 14, Border Patrol agents arrested 13 illegal immigrants,
Leyva and another suspected smuggler, Jose Guadalupe Ceja, in one of the more
elaborately flawed smuggling attempts in recent memory along the U.S.-Mexico
border.

Smugglers and illegal immigrants have a long history of traveling in disguise.
They have painted their vans to look like Border Patrol or public utility
vehicles. Immigrants wearing hard hats have posed as highway workers or
government contractors.

Last week's scheme was aimed at slipping the illegal immigrants under the noses
of Border Patrol agents who are accustomed to waving through Marines traveling
through the Interstate 8 checkpoint about 55 miles east of San Diego.

The smugglers gathered the illegal immigrants at a trailer park in the Imperial
County town of Seely. The immigrants had already crossed the border, but needed
to be transported to the Los Angeles area, which meant getting through the
Border Patrol checkpoint.

The immigrants were ordered to change out of their clothing and into the
military garb and caps, according to a statement Leyva gave to agents.

The younger immigrants were told to sit toward the front of the van and they
took off on Interstate 8.

The van drew suspicion the moment it passed by Smith, a plainclothes agent who
is part of an anti-smuggling team that patrols in unmarked vehicles. The
government license plate on the van, he noticed, appeared to be altered.

When he and other agents stopped the vehicle and peeked inside, they noticed
that the group was wearing camouflage uniforms of different shades. The uniforms
of Leyva and Ceja were both marked with the name "Lopez."

After Leyva failed to answer the question about the birthday of the Marine
Corps, the plot quickly unraveled.

When an agent asked Ceja, the other smuggling suspect, what unit he was in, he
didn't answer. Do you speak English, the agent asked. "No. Not good," Ceja
answered.

As for the immigrants in the back, they didn't even try to fool the agents. When
asked for their citizenship, they all admitted they were Mexican.

And none offered an answer to the simple question for any real Marine: Nov. 10,
1775, the birthday of the Marine Corps.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2011 Sunday

Undocumented paying taxes hoping to ease into legality

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 840 words


OAKLAND -- Isaias Aguilar filed his income tax returns for the first time this
year and took a financial hit for it. He owed $579 to the Internal Revenue
Service for some of the work he did last year, including as a part-time
taekwondo instructor.

The 29-year-old Mexican immigrant is not authorized to live and work in the
United States, but he is one of millions of illegal immigrants known to use an
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, or ITIN, to file their taxes because
they do not have Social Security numbers.

Parting with the $579 might hurt him in a tough economy, but the Oakland
resident hopes his fiduciary responsibility will help him in the long run. If
Congress ever creates a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, those who
tried to play by the rules might have a better chance of getting a green card,
he said.

"I don't know what's going to happen in the future," Aguilar said. "If something
good will happen for immigrants, an amnesty, they're probably going to ask if
I'm reporting my tax forms."

The IRS reported 3.8 million tax returns filed with ITIN numbers for the 2009
tax year.

Undocumented immigrants are not the only people using ITIN numbers. Foreign
investors are among those who might file taxes without a Social Security number.
But most accountants and tax officials say the majority of ITIN holders are
illegal immigrants. The tax agency is prohibited from sharing information about
ITIN holders with immigration agents and other federal authorities.

"The reason why the IRS does it is they want everyone to pay taxes," said
Vanessa Muñiz of the United Way of the Bay Area. "They don't care if you're
documented or undocumented. They want everyone's money."

The United Way -- through a program called Earn It! Keep It! Save It! --
sponsored free tax preparation help for low-income residents at a few hundred
sites across the Bay Area in recent weeks. More than 15 of those sites had
IRS-certified agents authorized to process forms filed with ITIN numbers.

One of those agents, Leonardo Covis, was there when Aguilar came through the
doors of East Oakland's SparkPoint center looking for help.

"If you're here and don't have legal status, but want to eventually, a good
thing to do is start filing tax returns," said Covis, who works for the East Bay
Asian Local Development Corporation, one of the organizations providing free
help.

Muñiz said the IRS made it easier this year for nonprofit organizations to give
undocumented immigrants free tax preparation services. Previously, anyone filing
with an ITIN number had to pay a professional tax preparer or go directly to IRS
offices in Oakland or Walnut Creek. But getting to those IRS offices was
impossible without a driver's license, and undocumented immigrants are
ineligible for driver's licenses in the state.

"You can't get into the building," Muñiz said. "So they would go to paid
professionals, paying $200 to $400, paying a lot of money to get this number."

Like other tax-filers who worked all year and had money withheld from their
checks, some undocumented immigrants get refunds when they file their forms.
Those who don't file their forms may lose that money to the government. Many
also pay into the Social Security system using false numbers on their work
forms, but are ineligible for the fruits of their contributions. Still others
pay California's $800 franchise tax so they can work as independent contractors.

Illegal immigrants are ineligible for one of the best-known and most lucrative
benefits, the Earned Income Tax Credit, but those with children can apply for
the Child Tax Credit, which can reduce income taxes by up to $1,000 for each
qualifying child.

The financial cost of illegal immigration is controversial, and a common
argument is that illegal immigrants dodging taxes cost the country billions of
dollars. Others who fight to stop illegal immigration, like Michigan researcher
Edwin Rubenstein, say many illegal immigrants do, in fact, file their returns,
but they do so chiefly to obtain tax credits, including those for which they are
not eligible.

"It's such a widespread practice," said Rubenstein, who wrote a report on
immigrant tax fraud in his magazine, the Social Contract. "In many cases, it may
be the determining factor of why these people come here in the first place. Even
if you don't have a job, you can file for the credit."

Muñiz finds little evidence to support that argument. The IRS catches up to
those who file fraudulent returns, and most undocumented immigrants do not want
to jeopardize their ability to stay in the country -- even if it means losing
money, or gaining just a small return, at tax time, she said.

The average tax refund for ITIN holders last year was $2,700, lower than the
average refund for all taxpayers, which was about $3,000.

"I really do think there's a huge misconception," Muñiz said. "They're paying
taxes just like everyone else. They work; they pay taxes. They purchase goods;
they pay taxes.

"They aren't any different from any other person except they're undocumented."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday

May 27 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 799 words


Illegal immigration requires swift action

The Supreme Court, in supporting the Arizona law requiring businesses to check
identification and indication of citizenship for employment, has made a good
beginning. Let's hope the court continues to make strong decisions to enforce
laws against illegal immigration. I am a liberal who often disagrees with the
court; however, on the issue of illegal -- note the word, illegal --
immigration, immediate, aggressive action must be taken. The negative impact of
illegals on our economy, health care system, national security, educational
system and criminal justice system makes this issue the most important one
facing our country today.

Although I have been a Democrat for 50 years, I have changed my registration to
"decline to state," and I shall vote for the candidate of whatever party takes a
stand against illegal immigration.

John R. McConnell

Monterey

No evidence of harsh business climate

I'm not concerned about Carl's Jr. leaving California (Opinion, May 26). I agree
that California is too litigious, but I can't find a single example of a harsh
business climate in David Houston and Jot Condie's op-ed. That Texas restaurants
need not provide adequate parking or restrooms with hot water and that they can
leave their garbage cans out in the street does not lend credence to his
argument. If CKE CEO Andrew Puzder is firing his supervisors for working too
many hours, he's got a management problem, not one of over-regulation. Maybe
it's just too hot in the kitchen, and Puzder should step out. I hear the weather
is beautiful this time of year in Dallas.

David Clark

President, MindSource Mountain View

Reed is not acting like a Democrat

Does San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed think he has the right to continue to call
himself a Democrat? Attempting to strip workers of collective bargaining rights,
slashing pay and benefits and vilifying city employees at every possible
opportunity are certainly not the actions of a Democrat. They sound more like
the actions of a Wisconsin Republican.

Reed needs to seriously reconsider his party affiliation. Currently, he's in the
wrong one. Does the city have a deficit? Yes. Should that deficit be addressed?
Yes. Should it be done by attacking city workers? No. This deficit did not
suddenly appear. It has existed for a long time. It cannot be solved overnight.
It must be solved over time. To do otherwise is fiscally irresponsible and to
try and do it by attacking workers' rights is un-American.

Phil Gardner

San Jose

Article wrong about Middle East dispute

Thomas Friedman makes two mistakes in his op-ed ("Time for Palestinians'
spring," Opinion, May 26). First, he posits that the dispute is about land. As
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu correctly pointed out this week, the true
issue is about the existence of any Jewish political entity on any part of
Israel. No Palestinian leader has ever supported a Jewish democratic polity,
from 1920 to the present. Palestinians assert that the entire area is theirs and
theirs alone. Second, he suggests that a mass demonstration is the way to
peacefully demonstrate a democratic impulse. He is confused. Democracy is about
processes and respect for those processes, to ensure broad participation and
protection for minorities. Mass demonstrations are mobs.

Donald Mintz

Sunnyvale

Don't deprive union workers of benefits

Sharon Turetzky (Letters, May 26) writes, "Prominent businesses discovered many,
many years ago that in order to stay viable, they could no longer pay pensions
to their workers." What prominent businesses really discovered was that helpful
legislation eliminated unions and allowed jobs to leave the country so they
could then increase the bottom line and pay CEOs 400 times what they paid the
workers. Corporations also eliminated sick leave, vacations and full-time
workers. Sharon Turetzky would have union workers give up benefits and bring
them to the level of nonunion workers. Corporations are earning record profits
and paying very little tax. Tearing down workers with benefits will result in a
Third World standard of living for all.

Phillip P. Pflager

Cupertino

Cutting school year would hurt students

Regarding the article (Page A1, May 13) "California could cut school year by
several weeks," the 180-day school year minimum was made a law for a reason: so
that in times like these, the schools would not suffer. In the San Jose Unified
School District, our school year was cut by only five days, yet my cramped,
40-person English class is still struggling to get all of our assignments done
before June 2. We cannot afford to lose five weeks of school and frankly, there
will never be a school year that can. It is not the students' faults that the
state has no money, so why should we suffer?

Gina Seith

Junior, Pioneer High School San Jose

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 26, 2011 Thursday

May 27 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 799 words


Illegal immigration requires swift action

The Supreme Court, in supporting the Arizona law requiring businesses to check
identification and indication of citizenship for employment, has made a good
beginning. Let's hope the court continues to make strong decisions to enforce
laws against illegal immigration. I am a liberal who often disagrees with the
court; however, on the issue of illegal -- note the word, illegal --
immigration, immediate, aggressive action must be taken. The negative impact of
illegals on our economy, health care system, national security, educational
system and criminal justice system makes this issue the most important one
facing our country today.

Although I have been a Democrat for 50 years, I have changed my registration to
"decline to state," and I shall vote for the candidate of whatever party takes a
stand against illegal immigration.

John R. McConnell

Monterey

No evidence of harsh business climate

I'm not concerned about Carl's Jr. leaving California (Opinion, May 26). I agree
that California is too litigious, but I can't find a single example of a harsh
business climate in David Houston and Jot Condie's op-ed. That Texas restaurants
need not provide adequate parking or restrooms with hot water and that they can
leave their garbage cans out in the street does not lend credence to his
argument. If CKE CEO Andrew Puzder is firing his supervisors for working too
many hours, he's got a management problem, not one of over-regulation. Maybe
it's just too hot in the kitchen, and Puzder should step out. I hear the weather
is beautiful this time of year in Dallas.

David Clark

President, MindSource Mountain View

Reed is not acting like a Democrat

Does San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed think he has the right to continue to call
himself a Democrat? Attempting to strip workers of collective bargaining rights,
slashing pay and benefits and vilifying city employees at every possible
opportunity are certainly not the actions of a Democrat. They sound more like
the actions of a Wisconsin Republican.

Reed needs to seriously reconsider his party affiliation. Currently, he's in the
wrong one. Does the city have a deficit? Yes. Should that deficit be addressed?
Yes. Should it be done by attacking city workers? No. This deficit did not
suddenly appear. It has existed for a long time. It cannot be solved overnight.
It must be solved over time. To do otherwise is fiscally irresponsible and to
try and do it by attacking workers' rights is un-American.

Phil Gardner

San Jose

Article wrong about Middle East dispute

Thomas Friedman makes two mistakes in his op-ed ("Time for Palestinians'
spring," Opinion, May 26). First, he posits that the dispute is about land. As
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu correctly pointed out this week, the true
issue is about the existence of any Jewish political entity on any part of
Israel. No Palestinian leader has ever supported a Jewish democratic polity,
from 1920 to the present. Palestinians assert that the entire area is theirs and
theirs alone. Second, he suggests that a mass demonstration is the way to
peacefully demonstrate a democratic impulse. He is confused. Democracy is about
processes and respect for those processes, to ensure broad participation and
protection for minorities. Mass demonstrations are mobs.

Donald Mintz

Sunnyvale

Don't deprive union workers of benefits

Sharon Turetzky (Letters, May 26) writes, "Prominent businesses discovered many,
many years ago that in order to stay viable, they could no longer pay pensions
to their workers." What prominent businesses really discovered was that helpful
legislation eliminated unions and allowed jobs to leave the country so they
could then increase the bottom line and pay CEOs 400 times what they paid the
workers. Corporations also eliminated sick leave, vacations and full-time
workers. Sharon Turetzky would have union workers give up benefits and bring
them to the level of nonunion workers. Corporations are earning record profits
and paying very little tax. Tearing down workers with benefits will result in a
Third World standard of living for all.

Phillip P. Pflager

Cupertino

Cutting school year would hurt students

Regarding the article (Page A1, May 13) "California could cut school year by
several weeks," the 180-day school year minimum was made a law for a reason: so
that in times like these, the schools would not suffer. In the San Jose Unified
School District, our school year was cut by only five days, yet my cramped,
40-person English class is still struggling to get all of our assignments done
before June 2. We cannot afford to lose five weeks of school and frankly, there
will never be a school year that can. It is not the students' faults that the
state has no money, so why should we suffer?

Gina Seith

Junior, Pioneer High School San Jose

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

Illegal immigrants give GOP more political clout

BYLINE: By thomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 851 words


At almost every chance they get, prominent Republican politicians spew a line of
anti-illegal immigrant rhetoric they insist is true, even when most of their
claims are unproven.

They excoriate illegals for depriving Americans of jobs. Yet experiments carried
out at unemployment offices indicate American citizens refuse even to apply for
unskilled farm, hotel, restaurant and car wash jobs that often go to illegals.

They blast illegals for being a burden on state and local budgets, generally
refusing even to consider how much illegals pay in taxes on groceries, gasoline,
tobacco, liquor, telephone bills, property (through rent), vehicle license fees
and many other levies.

All this makes it a considerable irony that illegal immigrants are to a large
extent responsible for the increased clout and numbers Republicans expect to
enjoy for the next 10 years due to results of last year's census.

Republicans salivate openly over the fact that Texas will get two additional
seats in Congress next year, while California remains stable. Where California
has a non-partisan citizen redistricting commission drawing its new lines, the
Texas redistricting will be managed by Republican legislators and GOP Gov. Rick
Perry.

The census shows Texas hosts 1.65 million illegal immigrant residents, enough to
account for those new districts. Since they can't vote, the districts they
spurred will probably go to Republicans. (California at the same time hosts 2.55
million illegals and had a net growth of more than 3 million people overall, but
gets no more space in Congress because its share of the national populace
remained stable, at about 12 percent.)

Republican-dominated Georgia gains one new seat in Congress largely because of
425,000 illegal immigrants who weren't there 10 years earlier. Florida gained a
seat, with 825,000 additional illegals. Arizona and Utah each also picked up one
seat, with 400,000 more illegals in Arizona (how many of them are still there
since passage of two tough anti-illegal immigrant laws is an unknown, but many
have left. No matter, it is last year's count that governs).

In all those states, Republicans control both the governor's offices and the
legislatures, so they alone will decide where the new lines are drawn and will
see to it the new seats go to the GOP. The same states will also get new clout
in the Electoral College for presidential votes.

Those districts account for the major portion of new seats Republicans hope to
hand themselves in this year's reapportionment, and all are at least in good
part the product of illegal immigrant populations.

But these GOP gains may turn out to be very temporary, especially since Latino
U.S. citizen numbers are also up considerably in the same states. But in states
like Texas and Georgia, Hispanics have never voted in the proportion they do in
California, where they have lately accounted for about 18 percent of the total
vote. That still doesn't nearly match their percentage of the populace, but it's
much higher than Latino turnouts in places such as Georgia and Texas, which
amount to about 6 percent of the total vote.

"There's a big distinction between people who live somewhere and the
representation they often get," says Orlando Rodriguez, author of the new book
"Vote Thieves: Illegal Immigration, Redistricting and Presidential Elections."

"Those who vote get excess representation compared with those who don't."

That's why, for example, if Latinos were represented in the California
congressional delegation in the same proportion as the population, there would
be 13 California Hispanics in Congress. There are seven.

But just as the anti-illegal Proposition 187 -- passed here in 1994 --
galvanized many previous non-citizen Latino legal immigrants to gain citizenship
and begin voting, so the anti-illegal measures passed in Arizona and in the
works in some other states may also spur a reaction.

If that happens, some new districts carved out by GOP mapmakers might not stay
solidly Republican.

All of which raises an interesting question: Does the one-man, one-vote decision
by the U.S. Supreme Court of the 1960s still make sense today, when so much of
the U.S. populace (both legal and illegal immigrants) lacks citizenship?
Rodriguez suggests it would be fairer and more sensible to reapportion on the
basis of the number of persons eligible to vote in the last election or two.

"Our current method of apportionment creates an incentive to encourage illegal
immigration (even when publicly railing against it) and polarizes our political
system," Rodriguez said.

The upshot: Republicans may be sitting pretty today, but they could be
discomfited considerably by an increase in Latino voter participation. That's
because the GOP has seen what happened when many California Latinos suddenly
became interested: This state switched from a tossup that usually leaned
Republican to solidly Democratic. It could also happen elsewhere, even in
current Republican strongholds like Texas and Georgia and Arizona.

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. E-mail
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 1, 2011 Friday

Reporter Jose Vargas becomes subject in undocumented immigrant story revealed to
high school journalists at Mountain View High

BYLINE: By SOPHIE HO Mosaic Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words


In May, journalist Jose Vargas visited his alma mater and my school, Mountain
View High School, to speak to aspiring journalists about his career.

What he originally planned as a discussion on journalism escalated into a
confession -- he was an undocumented immigrant. I remember sitting in the third
row of the classroom, staring at the medium-sized Filipino man with admiration.
He asked our suggestions, from a student perspective, on his upcoming
documentary about immigration.

My friend Naomi Cohen raised her hand and said that if anything, people wanted
to hear a story. A pensive expression spread over Vargas' face. He paused for a
couple of minutes, took a deep breath, and then revealed that he was also an
undocumented immigrant. The silence was deafening. My classmates and I were in
shock.

From there, the excited conversation about the changing face of journalism from
a social media embracer turned to questions of "aren't you scared?"

He said he was scared out of his mind, but added, "I feel obligated to do this."
Vargas told the story of how he discovered his illegal status at age 16, during
a DMV visit. He immediately confronted his grandfather who confirmed that Vargas
was undocumented. Vargas said he wasn't going to let anyone ignore the situation
and was going to make people take notice.

Vargas emphasized that undocumented immigrants are not just the fruit pickers or
the construction workers -- they could be doctors, teachers, even journalists.
The entire time, I was thinking that if anybody had a right to be in America, it
was hardworking individuals like Vargas. In many ways, he is living example of
the DREAM Act (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors).

The DREAM Act, drafted in 2001, would grant legality to undocumented minors who
have graduated from high school or served in the military.

On June 22, Vargas went public in a tell-all New York Times Magazine article.
Many readers of his revelatory article are now calling for his deportation.

One reader said that despite the justification for any crime, the fact that a
culprit committed it remains unchanged. In other words, even though Vargas has
lived here for the majority of his life, has assimilated and contributed to
society, that doesn't change the fact he broke the law multiple times, and thus,
should be deported. All I can say is deporting individuals like Vargas would be
a grave mistake for two reasons: he didn't make the decision to come here and he
is a contributing member of society.

He was only 12 when his parents pushed him on to a plane for the U.S. To kick
him out for his parents' decision is unfair -- it's like imprisoning a child
because their father is a heroin addict.

Sure, their parent's decision will affect that child greatly, but the child's
choices from that moment on say much more. Second, Vargas is the face of a new,
proactive youth. He's at the forefront of journalists embracing social media and
citizen reporting.

It's a mistake to kick out promising individuals who can guide the future of
America. If Vargas is deported and told to wait in line for citizenship for 10
or more years, his potential to change and affect others will be lost.

For those of you who say, "But what about those no-good, wet-back cherry
pickers? They don't contribute to society. They won't do anything for the
future."

Again, wrong. They are doing something for our future -- doing the jobs that the
rest of us turn our noses at.

Those undocumented immigrants who finish high school and pursue higher education
will also add to society.

The deportation of Vargas and other individuals in his situation is pure
cruelty. The major flaw in most of the arguments is that they regard the
subjects in question as numbers without papers, rather than as decent people.

Where has our humanity gone, when we coldly judge that somebody has no right to
live somewhere, and must return to a place they barely remember?

If the worst-case scenario does occur -- Vargas gets deported -- his point to
reframe the argument about illegal immigration will remain.

Even if he leaves, the example of a man who worked hard and did a service to
society as an "alien" won't change.

You can remove the man, but you can't remove his voice.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday

Opinion:

BYLINE: By Sophie Ho Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 798 words


Editor's note: The classroom discussion the author discusses here happened weeks
before Jose Vargas publicly revealed his undocumented status. Everyone in the
room kept the secret.

By Sophie Ho

In May, journalist Jose Vargas visited his alma mater and my school, Mountain
View High School, to speak to aspiring journalists about his career.

What he originally planned as a discussion on journalism escalated into a
confession -- he is an undocumented immigrant. I remember sitting in the third
row of the classroom, staring at the medium-sized Filipino man with admiration.
He asked our suggestions, from a student perspective, on his upcoming
documentary about immigration.

My friend Naomi Cohen raised her hand and said that if anything, people wanted
to hear a story. A pensive expression spread over Vargas' face. He paused for a
couple of minutes, took a deep breath, and then revealed that he is also an
undocumented immigrant. The silence was deafening. My classmates and I were in
shock.

From there, the excited conversation about the changing face of journalism from
a social media embracer turned to questions of "aren't you scared?"

He said he was scared out of his mind, but, he added, "I feel obligated to do
this." Vargas told the story of how he discovered his illegal status at age 16,
during a DMV visit. He immediately confronted his grandfather who confirmed that
Vargas was undocumented. Vargas said he wasn't going to let anyone ignore the
situation and was going to make people take notice.

Vargas emphasized that undocumented immigrants are not just the fruit pickers or
the construction workers -- they could be doctors, teachers, even journalists.
The entire time, I was thinking that if anybody had a right to be in America, it
was hardworking individuals like Vargas. In many ways, he is a living example of
the Dream Act (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors).

The Dream Act, drafted in 2001, would grant legal status to undocumented minors
who have graduated from high school or served in the military.

On June 22, Vargas went public in a tell-all New York Times Magazine article.
Many readers of his revelatory article are now calling for his deportation.

One reader said that despite the justification for any crime, the fact that a
culprit committed it remains unchanged. In other words, even though Vargas has
lived here for the majority of his life, has assimilated and contributed to
society, that doesn't change the fact he broke the law multiple times, and thus,
should be deported. All I can say is deporting individuals like Vargas would be
a grave mistake for two reasons: He didn't make the decision to come here and he
is a contributing member of society.

He was only 12 when his parents pushed him on to a plane for the United States.
To kick him out for his parents' decision is unfair -- it's like imprisoning a
child because their father is a heroin addict.

Sure, a parent's decision will affect that child greatly, but the child's
choices from that moment on say much more. Second, Vargas is the face of a new,
proactive youth. He's at the forefront of journalists embracing social media and
citizen reporting.

It's a mistake to kick out promising individuals who can guide the future of
America. If Vargas is deported and told to wait in line for citizenship for 10
or more years, his potential to change and affect others will be lost.

For those of you who say, "But what about those no-good farmworkers? They don't
contribute to society. They won't do anything for the future."

Again, wrong. They are doing something for our future -- doing the jobs that the
rest of us turn our noses at.

Those undocumented immigrants who finish high school and pursue higher education
will also add to society.

The possible deportation of Vargas and other individuals in his situation is
pure cruelty. The major flaw in most of the arguments is that they regard the
subjects in question as numbers without papers, rather than as decent people.

Where has our humanity gone, when we coldly judge that somebody has no right to
live somewhere, and must return to a place they barely remember?

If the worst-case scenario does occur -- Vargas gets deported -- his point to
reframe the argument about illegal immigration will remain.

Even if he leaves, the example of a man who worked hard and did a service to
society as an "alien" won't change.

You can remove the man, but you can't remove his voice.

SOPHIE HO is a senior at Mountain View High School and will be editor of The
Oracle this fall. She wrote this for Mosaic, the newspaper published during a
journalism workshop for high school students sponsored by the Mercury News, Dow
Jones News Fund, San Jose State University, Castellano Family Foundation and the
California Chicano News Media Association.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday

Opinion:

BYLINE: By Sophie Ho Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 798 words


Editor's note: The classroom discussion the author discusses here happened weeks
before Jose Vargas publicly revealed his undocumented status. Everyone in the
room kept the secret.

By Sophie Ho

In May, journalist Jose Vargas visited his alma mater and my school, Mountain
View High School, to speak to aspiring journalists about his career.

What he originally planned as a discussion on journalism escalated into a
confession -- he is an undocumented immigrant. I remember sitting in the third
row of the classroom, staring at the medium-sized Filipino man with admiration.
He asked our suggestions, from a student perspective, on his upcoming
documentary about immigration.

My friend Naomi Cohen raised her hand and said that if anything, people wanted
to hear a story. A pensive expression spread over Vargas' face. He paused for a
couple of minutes, took a deep breath, and then revealed that he is also an
undocumented immigrant. The silence was deafening. My classmates and I were in
shock.

From there, the excited conversation about the changing face of journalism from
a social media embracer turned to questions of "aren't you scared?"

He said he was scared out of his mind, but, he added, "I feel obligated to do
this." Vargas told the story of how he discovered his illegal status at age 16,
during a DMV visit. He immediately confronted his grandfather who confirmed that
Vargas was undocumented. Vargas said he wasn't going to let anyone ignore the
situation and was going to make people take notice.

Vargas emphasized that undocumented immigrants are not just the fruit pickers or
the construction workers -- they could be doctors, teachers, even journalists.
The entire time, I was thinking that if anybody had a right to be in America, it
was hardworking individuals like Vargas. In many ways, he is a living example of
the Dream Act (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors).

The Dream Act, drafted in 2001, would grant legal status to undocumented minors
who have graduated from high school or served in the military.

On June 22, Vargas went public in a tell-all New York Times Magazine article.
Many readers of his revelatory article are now calling for his deportation.

One reader said that despite the justification for any crime, the fact that a
culprit committed it remains unchanged. In other words, even though Vargas has
lived here for the majority of his life, has assimilated and contributed to
society, that doesn't change the fact he broke the law multiple times, and thus,
should be deported. All I can say is deporting individuals like Vargas would be
a grave mistake for two reasons: He didn't make the decision to come here and he
is a contributing member of society.

He was only 12 when his parents pushed him on to a plane for the United States.
To kick him out for his parents' decision is unfair -- it's like imprisoning a
child because their father is a heroin addict.

Sure, a parent's decision will affect that child greatly, but the child's
choices from that moment on say much more. Second, Vargas is the face of a new,
proactive youth. He's at the forefront of journalists embracing social media and
citizen reporting.

It's a mistake to kick out promising individuals who can guide the future of
America. If Vargas is deported and told to wait in line for citizenship for 10
or more years, his potential to change and affect others will be lost.

For those of you who say, "But what about those no-good farmworkers? They don't
contribute to society. They won't do anything for the future."

Again, wrong. They are doing something for our future -- doing the jobs that the
rest of us turn our noses at.

Those undocumented immigrants who finish high school and pursue higher education
will also add to society.

The possible deportation of Vargas and other individuals in his situation is
pure cruelty. The major flaw in most of the arguments is that they regard the
subjects in question as numbers without papers, rather than as decent people.

Where has our humanity gone, when we coldly judge that somebody has no right to
live somewhere, and must return to a place they barely remember?

If the worst-case scenario does occur -- Vargas gets deported -- his point to
reframe the argument about illegal immigration will remain.

Even if he leaves, the example of a man who worked hard and did a service to
society as an "alien" won't change.

You can remove the man, but you can't remove his voice.

SOPHIE HO is a senior at Mountain View High School and will be editor of The
Oracle this fall. She wrote this for Mosaic, the newspaper published during a
journalism workshop for high school students sponsored by the Mercury News, Dow
Jones News Fund, San Jose State University, Castellano Family Foundation and the
California Chicano News Media Association.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday

Opinion:

BYLINE: By Sophie Ho Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 798 words


Editor's note: The classroom discussion the author discusses here happened weeks
before Jose Vargas publicly revealed his undocumented status. Everyone in the
room kept the secret.

By Sophie Ho

In May, journalist Jose Vargas visited his alma mater and my school, Mountain
View High School, to speak to aspiring journalists about his career.

What he originally planned as a discussion on journalism escalated into a
confession -- he is an undocumented immigrant. I remember sitting in the third
row of the classroom, staring at the medium-sized Filipino man with admiration.
He asked our suggestions, from a student perspective, on his upcoming
documentary about immigration.

My friend Naomi Cohen raised her hand and said that if anything, people wanted
to hear a story. A pensive expression spread over Vargas' face. He paused for a
couple of minutes, took a deep breath, and then revealed that he is also an
undocumented immigrant. The silence was deafening. My classmates and I were in
shock.

From there, the excited conversation about the changing face of journalism from
a social media embracer turned to questions of "aren't you scared?"

He said he was scared out of his mind, but, he added, "I feel obligated to do
this." Vargas told the story of how he discovered his illegal status at age 16,
during a DMV visit. He immediately confronted his grandfather who confirmed that
Vargas was undocumented. Vargas said he wasn't going to let anyone ignore the
situation and was going to make people take notice.

Vargas emphasized that undocumented immigrants are not just the fruit pickers or
the construction workers -- they could be doctors, teachers, even journalists.
The entire time, I was thinking that if anybody had a right to be in America, it
was hardworking individuals like Vargas. In many ways, he is a living example of
the Dream Act (Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors).

The Dream Act, drafted in 2001, would grant legal status to undocumented minors
who have graduated from high school or served in the military.

On June 22, Vargas went public in a tell-all New York Times Magazine article.
Many readers of his revelatory article are now calling for his deportation.

One reader said that despite the justification for any crime, the fact that a
culprit committed it remains unchanged. In other words, even though Vargas has
lived here for the majority of his life, has assimilated and contributed to
society, that doesn't change the fact he broke the law multiple times, and thus,
should be deported. All I can say is deporting individuals like Vargas would be
a grave mistake for two reasons: He didn't make the decision to come here and he
is a contributing member of society.

He was only 12 when his parents pushed him on to a plane for the United States.
To kick him out for his parents' decision is unfair -- it's like imprisoning a
child because their father is a heroin addict.

Sure, a parent's decision will affect that child greatly, but the child's
choices from that moment on say much more. Second, Vargas is the face of a new,
proactive youth. He's at the forefront of journalists embracing social media and
citizen reporting.

It's a mistake to kick out promising individuals who can guide the future of
America. If Vargas is deported and told to wait in line for citizenship for 10
or more years, his potential to change and affect others will be lost.

For those of you who say, "But what about those no-good farmworkers? They don't
contribute to society. They won't do anything for the future."

Again, wrong. They are doing something for our future -- doing the jobs that the
rest of us turn our noses at.

Those undocumented immigrants who finish high school and pursue higher education
will also add to society.

The possible deportation of Vargas and other individuals in his situation is
pure cruelty. The major flaw in most of the arguments is that they regard the
subjects in question as numbers without papers, rather than as decent people.

Where has our humanity gone, when we coldly judge that somebody has no right to
live somewhere, and must return to a place they barely remember?

If the worst-case scenario does occur -- Vargas gets deported -- his point to
reframe the argument about illegal immigration will remain.

Even if he leaves, the example of a man who worked hard and did a service to
society as an "alien" won't change.

You can remove the man, but you can't remove his voice.

SOPHIE HO is a senior at Mountain View High School and will be editor of The
Oracle this fall. She wrote this for Mosaic, the newspaper published during a
journalism workshop for high school students sponsored by the Mercury News, Dow
Jones News Fund, San Jose State University, Castellano Family Foundation and the
California Chicano News Media Association.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Study finds half million illegal immigrants in Bay Area

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 792 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- An estimated half-million illegal immigrants live in the Bay
Area, according to a study that is one of the first to try to measure the number
of local residents living in the country illegally.

The report by the Public Policy Institute of California used tax returns,
previous national estimates and mathematical models to determine that 526,000
illegal immigrants live in the Bay Area, about 7.5 percent of the region's total
population.

Santa Clara County leads the Bay Area with 180,000 illegal immigrants, followed
by Alameda County with 124,000 and Contra Costa County with 79,000, the study
found.

"Unauthorized immigrants are a part of our communities. They're not just in a
few pockets," said demographer Laura Hill, who co-authored the report. "This
isn't a situation that is isolated to one or a few counties. These folks are
likely to be pretty well-integrated in the places where they are."

Illegal immigrants make up 12 percent of the population in wine-growing Napa
County, one of the highest rates after Monterey and San Benito counties, where
they make up 13.5 percent of the population, and Imperial County, along the
Mexican border, where they make up 12.8 percent. Illegal immigrants represent
10.2 percent of the population in Santa Clara County and 8.4 percent in Alameda
County, according to the study.

The researchers also surmise that the population appears to be dropping, at
least in older urban areas, as immigrants try their luck in inland California
and other states.

Several other studies have found the state's illegal immigrant population,
estimated at 2.6 million last year, to be steady or dropping even as it rises in
Texas, Florida, North Carolina and other Southern states.

The policy institute's study relied heavily on the number of Californians filing
taxes using an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, or ITIN, which is for
taxpayers who do not have a Social Security number. Examining those tax records
by ZIP codes found many of the applicants living in immigrant-heavy urban
neighborhoods, such as in San Jose, San Francisco's Mission district, Oakland's
Fruitvale district and the east and west ends of Contra Costa County, but also
in rural areas such as the Salinas Valley where undocumented immigrants work in
the fields. Even in the suburbs, however, many neighborhoods in the East Bay and
Silicon Valley have populations where at least 5 percent of residents do not
have the proper documents to live in the United States.

Neither immigrant advocates nor those working to reduce the number of illegal
immigrants were surprised by the statistics, but they interpreted the
significance of the numbers differently.

"As in other parts of the state, people who live in the Bay Area interact with
these immigrants every day. They are their neighbors, their co-workers, they may
be part of their families," said Reshma Shamasunder, director of the California
Immigrant Policy Center. "I do think it completely underscores our need for real
solutions to our nation's broken immigration system."

Shamasunder said the decline of undocumented immigrants in the state and its
coastal areas probably reflects larger trends as many Californians seek to move
to places with a lower cost of living and more job opportunities.

Others have been kicked out. The federal fingerprint-sharing Secure Communities
program has led to the deportation of 4,300 Bay Area residents arrested by local
police since the region's nine counties joined the dragnet last year, according
to government statistics. That represents fewer than 1 percent of the region's
total number of illegal immigrants, according to the new study, which is based
on 2008 data.

An East Bay advocate for reducing immigration doubted suggestions that the
state's population of illegal immigrants is steady or declining. The Department
of Homeland Security believes California's illegal immigrant population dropped
by about 250,000 between 2008 and 2009, but Yeh Ling-Ling of the Orinda-based
Alliance for a Sustainable USA said that is barely a dent in a population that
costs U.S. citizens jobs and money.

"I personally do not believe that the illegal immigrant population is going
down," she said. "Even if it has been down, the reduction is very insignificant.
Even if they're not in California, they're in other parts of the country and
American taxpayers have to bear the costs."

A full report on the county estimates can be viewed at
www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/R_711LHR.pdf . The institute also released a
"primer" on illegal immigration in the state at
www.ppic.org/content/pubs/atissue/AI_711HJAI.pdf .

* Because San Benito County is so small, it was included with Monterey County in
the figures.
Source: Public Policy Institute of California

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2011



CORRECTION: A story on Wednesday's front page incorrectly reported the number of
illegal immigrants estimated to be living in the nine counties of the Bay Area,
according to a study by the Public Policy Institute of California. The correct
number is 563,000, which is about 8 percent of the total Bay Area population.

GRAPHIC: Immigrant workers wait outside a South Bay day laborer center, 2006.
(Mercury News file photograph)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Private meeting doesn't sway immigrant advocates to embrace new policing
strategy

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez jrodriguez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 399 words


After a closed meeting Tuesday with San Jose police and federal agents,
immigrant rights advocates still oppose a new strategy for ridding the city of
violent gang members who also are illegal immigrants.

"We feel as strongly in our opposition as we did before we walked in the door,"
said Raj Jayadev, director of Silicon Valley DeBug, a community organization for
young adults. "It could still lead to the deportation of innocent people."

Jayadev and nine other advocates had a two-hour "question and answer" session
with police Chief Chris Moore and federal officials about the deployment of two
immigration agents with the city's Police Department. The agents, whose
identities are being kept secret, started working with police at the beginning
of the month.

Clark Settles, head of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland
Security Investigations unit in the Bay Area, insisted the agents will focus on
arresting and deporting undocumented, violent gang members and are not
interested in routine, "administrative deportations" of any peaceful illegal
immigrants they discover along the way.

"We're criminal investigators, and we go after felons," said Settles, who was
transferred from Washington, D.C., two weeks ago. He said the two agents wished
to keep their identities private because they live in the area and want to
protect their families from attacks.

Ever since Moore announced the embedding of the federal agents, he has been
scrambling to win over community leaders and immigration rights advocates.

"I don't think everyone went home happy today," Moore said after Tuesday's
meeting. "But I think they left with a better understanding."

Moore and Settles said the federal agents will not do any freelancing and will
work under the direction of the police department's anti-gang officers.

"It takes time to build trust," Settles said.

Jayadev said the number of arrests and deportations might eventually impress
some people, but the strategy also carries a big risk.

His fear is that undocumented immigrants who become victims of crime or witness
them will be reluctant to report the incidents once they learn that "secret"
immigration agents are working with city police.

"That is really the core issue as far as we're concerned," he said.

Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767.

"I don't think everyone went home happy today. But I think they left with a
better understanding."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion: Homeland Security toughens stance on Draconian 'Secure Communities'

BYLINE: By Esther J. Cepeda Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 568 words


CHICAGO -- Draconian. Rogue. Dangerous. Flawed.

These are just some of the words used to describe the Department of Homeland
Security's Secure Communities program, which, if it hasn't already, will soon be
coming to a community near you.

In a stunning defeat for immigration rights advocates who were celebrating in
June after several states, including Barack Obama's home state of Illinois,
declared they'd no longer be participating, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) announced last week that it was terminating all existing memorandums of
agreement with individual jurisdictions -- to send the clear message that the
program is not voluntary and cannot be declined.

Many law enforcement agencies are not happy. They have been caught in the
crosswinds of political whimsy -- from being urged to turn a blind eye to the
community impacts of illegal immigration, to fielding demands that police say
drive a wedge into their community relations and cost unreimbursed money as
well.

In 2007, agencies were initially told by ICE to sign up voluntarily and opt out
if need be. Then ICE changed its mind while pursuing the goal of signing up all
law enforcement agencies in every state by 2013.

But the program, which identifies illegal immigrants based on fingerprints that
local law enforcement officials check against Department of Justice, FBI and
Department of Homeland Security records, is hated by some immigrants and
activists because of its stunning record in helping deport illegal immigrants
without serious criminal convictions. Advocates for illegal immigrants say that
even though the program was initially designed to deport only the most violent
or threatening criminal offenders, victims of crime and immigrants who had
committed "minor crimes" are also being sent home.

But aside from these immigrant activists, few others raise a stink about Secure
Communities and here's why: Residents of any given community, no matter how
liberal or open to inflows of immigration they are, want those who commit any
kind of crime gone.

People in this country love and celebrate the mythology of immigrants forging
the America we love today -- until they're on their way home from work, and an
illegal immigrant driver with no license and no insurance plows into their car
and then drives off. Not that legal status is the linchpin. The protective
instinct to shun the delinquent goes for any crime, major or minor -- ask
anyone, and they'll tell you they don't want U.S.-born lawbreakers anywhere near
them, either.

Statistics showing that "only" about 40 percent of those swept up by Secure
Communities had previously committed major violent offenses have little
traction. You want resonance? Start talking about how much this mandated program
costs struggling law enforcement agencies and their communities.

There's no question the program has serious flaws. It was, at the start,
administered heavy-handedly to both state and local law enforcement's existing
responsibilities -- not a great way to start a partnership. And with a goal of
catching the worst of the worst with limited budgets and manpower, there is no
excuse for putting victims of crime with no prior criminal record through the
ringer.

Secure Communities appears here to stay. People who care about keeping crime
down would be smart to pay attention to its progress in their own communities.

ESTHER J. CEPEDA is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 25, 2011 Thursday

Berkeley chancellor seeking funds for undocumented students

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick Contra Costa Times © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News
Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 503 words


BERKELEY -- UC Berkeley is asking some of the country's largest foundations to
help undocumented immigrants afford college.

Buoyed by a new state law that allows public colleges and universities to offer
private scholarships to students who came to the United States illegally, UC
Berkeley Chancellor Robert Birgeneau said Wednesday he has spoken to major
organizations such as the Carnegie and Ford foundations about helping the
university.

"One was nervous about the political impact," he said in an interview after his
annual back-to-school media briefing. "The other said, 'This is fantastic.' "

Birgeneau has been a vocal supporter of undocumented students -- he spoke to
President Barack Obama on the subject earlier this year -- and has advocated in
favor of laws allowing those immigrants to attend school and become citizens.

Berkeley is among the first campuses to take advantage of the new law, which
allows schools to raise private money for scholarships for undocumented
students. Those students, many of whom were brought to the United States by
their parents when they were 5 or younger, often have trouble affording college
because they are ineligible for federal and state aid, loans and many
scholarships. In order to qualify for in-state tuition, the students must have
graduated from a California high school and have attended high school here for
at least three years.

The requests to major foundations are thorny because of the politically charged
immigration issue.

"It remains to be seen whether foundations will step through a door that's been
opened for them," said Katharine Gin, executive director of Educators for Fair
Consideration, a foundation that has given scholarships to undocumented
students. "Hopefully, this is a new era."

Spokespeople for the New York-based Ford and Carnegie foundations could not be
reached.

The students have asked lawmakers to make federal and state grants available to
undocumented immigrants, but legislation has stalled. The foundation funding
would help, said Ju Hong, a UC Berkeley undergraduate who illegally came to the
United States from South Korea when he was 11.

"Most of the undocumented students on our campus face financial hardships," he
said. "It's difficult, especially now because of the tuition hikes. We can't
really work."

Birgeneau also updated media members about campus finances, which have been
battered by repeated state budget cuts. The state provides only 12 percent of
the university's operating budget, he said, and is "a distant fourth" when it
comes to funding sources.

"The state is really a minor partner," he said. "This is extraordinarily bad
judgment on the part of the people in Sacramento."

UC Berkeley has dipped into reserves to avoid major effects on students,
Birgeneau said, but will exhaust those funds within a year or two. He urged
corporations and the federal government to give more money to flagship
universities.

Matt Krupnick covers higher education. Contact him at 510-208-6488. Follow him
at Twitter.com/MattKrupnick .

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Throngs crowd under Sather Gate on the first day of classes at UC
Berkeley in 2009.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday

UC Berkeley seeks funds for undocumented immigrants

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


UC Berkeley is asking some of the country's largest foundations to help
undocumented immigrants afford college.

Buoyed by a new state law that allows public colleges and universities to offer
private scholarships to students who came to the United States illegally, UC
Berkeley Chancellor Robert Birgeneau said on Aug. 24 he has spoken to major
organizations such as the Carnegie and Ford foundations about helping the
university.

"One was nervous about the political impact, " he said in an interview after his
annual back-to-school media briefing. "The other said, 'This is fantastic.'"

Birgeneau has been a vocal supporter of undocumented students -- he spoke to
President Barack Obama on the subject earlier this year -- and has advocated in
favor of laws allowing those immigrants to attend school and become citizens.

Berkeley is among the first campuses to take advantage of the new law, which
allows schools to raise private money for scholarships for undocumented
students.

Those students, many of whom were brought to the United States by their parents
when they were 5 or younger, often have trouble affording college because they
are ineligible for federal and state aid, loans and many scholarships.

In order to qualify for in-state tuition, the students must have graduated from
a California high school and have attended high school here for at least three
years.

The requests to major foundations are thorny because of the politically charged
immigration issue.

"It remains to be seen whether foundations will step through a door that's been
opened for them, " said Katharine Gin, executive director of Educators for Fair
Consideration, a foundation that has given scholarships to undocumented
students. "Hopefully, this is a new era."

Spokespeople for the New York-based Ford and Carnegie foundations could not be
reached.

The students have asked lawmakers to make federal and state grants available to
undocumented immigrants, but legislation has stalled. The foundation funding
would help, said Ju Hong, a UC Berkeley undergraduate who illegally came to the
United States from South Korea when he was 11.

"Most of the undocumented students on our campus face financial hardships, " he
said. "It's difficult, especially now because of the tuition hikes. We can't
really work."

Birgeneau also updated media members about campus finances, which have been
battered by repeated state budget cuts. The state provides only 12 percent of
the university's operating budget, he said, and is "a distant fourth" when it
comes to funding sources.

"The state is really a minor partner, " he said. "This is extraordinarily bad
judgment on the part of the people in Sacramento." UC Berkeley has dipped into
reserves to avoid major effects on students, Birgeneau said, but will exhaust
those funds within a year or two.

He urged corporations and the federal government to give more money to flagship
universities.

Contact Matt Krupnick at 510-208-6488. Follow him at Twitter.com/MattKrupnick .

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

Owners of El Balazo taquerias plead guilty to hiring illegal immigrants, tax
fraud

BYLINE: By Robert Salonga Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 324 words


OAKLAND -- The Pleasanton couple who opened a popular Bay Area chain of
taquerias pleaded guilty in federal court to hiring illegal immigrants and tax
fraud related to underreporting those workers' wages, authorities said.

El Balazo owners Marino Sandoval, 58, and his wife, Nicole Sandoval, 50, entered
their pleas Wednesday to a series of immigration, Social Security and tax
offenses, according to a news release from the U.S. Attorney's Office Northern
District.

Their charges carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison and several
hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines.

Co-defendant Francisco Sandoval, of Alameda -- the 55-year-old brother of Marino
Sandoval and manager of the chain's San Francisco location -- was sentenced last
December to three years' probation and ordered to pay $50,000 to the IRS.

Marino Sandoval admitted to knowingly hiring employees who were not legally
authorized to work in the United States, according to the U.S. Attorney's
Office. Between 2007 and 2008, the release said, the chain employed more than
100 illegal immigrants.

That was the motive behind a series of federal raids in May 2008 that found at
least 63 undocumented immigrants. After federal authorities confronted Marino
Sandoval with their findings, he rehired at least 10 of the unauthorized
employees, the U.S. Attorney's Office said.

Additionally, Nicole Sandoval admitted to underreporting employees' wages to
decrease the businesses' tax burdens and providing false Social Security numbers
for them.

The chain, which once operated as many as nine restaurants in San Francisco,
Concord, Danville, Lafayette, Pleasanton and San Ramon, was partially shut down
in March 2010 after falling behind on its state taxes. Some restaurants remain
closed, but some are operational.

Marino and Nicole Sandoval are scheduled for sentencing on Dec. 14.

Robert Salonga covers public safety. Contact him at 925-943-8013. Follow him at
Twitter.com/robertsalonga .

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Two Bay Area counties take markedly different approaches to dealing with illegal
immigration

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Tracey Seipel Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 700 words


As the United States announced Tuesday it had deported a record 396,906 people
in the past year, two Bay Area counties were taking markedly different
approaches to how they work with the federal government on illegal immigration.

Santa Clara County supervisors effectively agreed that they would aid
deportations only for serious felons, and only by holding them for 24 hours
after their sentences if federal immigration agents request it and the
government pays for the added costs -- something federal officials have said
they won't do.

The policy puts a hole in the federal net that would avert deportation for
illegal immigrants arrested for nonviolent crimes or minor misdemeanors.

Community activists hailed it as the nation's most progressive "civil
immigration hold policy" related to the U.S. government's Secure Communities
program, which requires local jails to submit to immigration officers the
fingerprints of everyone booked.

Meanwhile, in Contra Costa County, which leads the Bay Area in deportations
through Secure Communities, Sheriff David Livingston met with Latino leaders to
explain why the federal-local partnership has deported more than 1,100 people
from the county since April 2010.

"We're aghast that we're the highest," said Antonio Medrano, a board member of
the West Contra Costa School District.

Medrano was among the small group of local politicians and immigration lawyers
who met the sheriff Tuesday morning in El Cerrito. Along with having the highest
number of Secure Communities deportations, Contra Costa also has the Bay Area's
highest percentage of noncriminals deported through the program, according to
government statistics.

Livingston was not able to explain why, according to several attendees.

"It wasn't antagonistic, it was very positive," Medrano said of the meeting. "We
were very pleased, and we sent them off with some questions they're going to
come back with."

As they were meeting, the U.S. government announced its record deportations --
the most in the nation's history -- in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.

Immigration officials, instructed by the Obama administration to focus on
deporting criminals, said 55 percent of those deported nationwide had committed
a felony or misdemeanor crime, the same rate as in Contra Costa County.

The agency also said 90 percent of the people it deported nationwide were in a
"priority category," meaning they had either recently crossed the border,
repeatedly violated civil immigration laws or committed a crime.

Secure Communities has been a centerpiece of President Barack Obama's
immigration enforcement strategy, but immigrant advocates have criticized it for
drawing too many noncriminals or low-level offenders into its net.

"Obama's been very clear about his priority of going after the worst of the
worst, which makes sense, but with the Secure Communities program, it's not just
the worst of the worst getting caught. It's a lot of regular people," said
Lorena Melgarejo, of the Central American Resource Center.

The group co-hosted a protest against the deportations Tuesday afternoon in San
Francisco. In Santa Clara County -- which unsuccessfully tried last year to
extricate itself from the program that county leaders called discriminatory --
supervisors said they now will use as few county resources as possible to
enforce the program beyond what is legally required.

In Contra Costa, Livingston, Concord's former police chief, has declined to
speak about Secure Communities since taking office in January, but his staff has
said repeatedly it does not know why the county, the third most populous in the
Bay Area, has the most deportations.

"There doesn't seem to be a clear answer," sheriff's spokesman Jimmy Lee said in
February. "Perhaps it may be demographics. We do know that ICE is very active in
Contra Costa County and that they regularly visit" the county jail in Martinez.

County Supervisor John Gioia, of Richmond, who facilitated Tuesday's meeting,
said he expects more information soon from the Sheriff's Office.

The sheriff's "perspective is that they're obligated to cooperate with ICE, but
he was also interested in understanding what concerns and issues people may
have," Gioia said.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Gail Collins: Mitt and Begonia-gate

BYLINE: By Gail Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 563 words


Oh, wow! Rick Perry hit Mitt Romney with the illegal immigrant landscapers!

It was the high point of this week's Republican debate, and somehow I have a
feeling it was a preplanned attack. Perry was so eager to tell the world that
his nemesis had once relied on undocumented workers for a healthy lawn and
well-maintained tennis court that he responded to a question about uninsured
children in Texas with the story of Mitt's yardwork.

"And the idea that you stand here before us and talk about -- that you're strong
on immigration is, on its face, the height of hypocrisy," Perry declaimed.

I found this very exciting because it brings us closer to the moment when one of
Romney's competitors will point out that he once drove to Canada with the family
dog strapped on the roof of the car.

This week's debate was a triumph for Perry, who not only put Romney on the
defensive, but did it in complete sentences. He did get lost in the weeds during
a discussion of Romney's Mormonism. ("And this country is based on, as Newt
talked about, these values that are so important as we go forward, and the idea
that we should not have our freedom of religion, to be taken away by any
means.")

The whole First Amendment thing might be a little complicated for a governor
whose state constitution prohibits anyone who doesn't believe in God from
holding public office. This is not a joke.

But about Romney and the landscapers. This is the story: In 2006, The Boston
Globe reported that the yard of then-Gov. Romney's family home was being groomed
by a landscaping firm with a history of using undocumented workers. The team of
reporters, led by Jonathan Saltzman and Maria Cramer, tracked down people in
Guatemala who recounted fond memories of their years of clipping the Romney
grass without the requisite immigration papers.

"Aw, geez," Romney said back then, in his inimitable way, when he was asked
about the matter. The whole situation was particularly embarrassing because the
governor had just begun his first presidential race by beating up on Sen. John
McCain for being soft on illegal immigrants.

Anyway, Romney then went home, discovered an undocumented worker somewhere among
the foliage and sent him packing.

Also, he complained to the landscaping company. We're sure about that because
Romney explained it during the debate Tuesday night.

This was after he had already responded to Perry with one of those terrible
artificial chuckles, then got red in the face, had a heated exchange and
violated the Texas governor's space by grabbing his shoulder. It was exactly
like professional wrestling, except for part about the middle-aged guys in
suits.

"So we went to the company and we said, 'Look, you can't have any illegals
working on our property.' That's -- I'm running for office, for Pete's sake. I
can't have illegals," Romney recounted.

If the debate had been less heated, perhaps he could have manufactured a
dialogue in which he gave the landscapers a lecture on the rule of law. But "I'm
running for office, for Pete's sake" really does ring true.

Interestingly, though, Romney kept using the same service until a year later
when he fired them after The Globe did a follow-up. ("Lawn Work at Romney's Home
Still Done by Illegal Immigrants.")

If a crate on the roof plays any part in this story, we are going to be really,
really disturbed.

GAIL COLLINS is a New York Times columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday

On crime policy, Santa Clara County takes a cutting-edge -- some say risky --
approach

BYLINE: By Tracey Kaplan tkaplan@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 1121 words


Long overshadowed by freethinking San Francisco, Berkeley and now protest-roiled
Oakland, Santa Clara County has been eclipsing its lefty neighbors lately --
with criminal justice policies that critics blast as risky but supporters call
cutting-edge.

From its controversial stand against a federal policy on detaining jailed
illegal immigrants to its open-arms, welcome-home stance toward newly freed
state prisoners, Santa Clara County has struck the kind of permissive chord that
puts Fox News pundits in a lather.

"The county is shaping up to be one of the most progressive in the state on
reforming the criminal justice system," said Allen Hopper, police practices
director of the ACLU of Northern California.

To be sure, prosecutors and judges in Santa Clara County are still filing
stiffer charges and putting people behind bars longer than in San Francisco. But
on the immigration front, the Board of Supervisors late last month approved a
policy that made Santa Clara County only the second jurisdiction in the nation
to defy U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE. Chicago's Cook
County was the first.

Now, the Santa Clara County sheriff releases illegal immigrants with a history
of committing serious or violent crimes onto the streets unless ICE pays to
detain them -- and so far the feds are refusing to cough up the money. Even San
Francisco County has retreated from its previous extremely lenient
illegal-immigration policy after undocumented juveniles it protected went on to
commit well-publicized murders.

In addition, Santa Clara County's willingness to experiment with rehabilitating
rather than simply locking up nonviolent felons under the state's massive new
"realignment" of the criminal justice system is generating such interest that
Stanford and Santa Clara universities are holding law school seminars this year
devoted to studying it. The county, for example, is the only one in the state
reaching out to prison inmates before they return home under the new supervision
of county probation officers. Local officials are showering the prisoners with
offers of job training, places to live and even free medication.

"I'm proud of the county," said Supervisor Dave Cortese. "I feel we are moving
as much as we can toward a system of restorative justice rather than punitive"
justice.

But some think the county is going too far -- particularly with its new
immigration policy, which passed on a 3-1 vote. Mike Wasserman, the only
Republican on the board, opposed the new policy, and Supervisor Liz Kniss was
absent. Kniss last week refused to say where she stands on the issue.

After the vote, District Attorney Jeff Rosen and Sheriff Laurie Smith warned
that freeing illegal immigrants whose previous records include violent crimes,
instead of holding them 24 hours for ICE, poses a risk that they may go on to
victimize others.

"I think they're just playing with dynamite," said Don Gage, a former longtime
Republican county supervisor who represented South County. "I wouldn't have
voted for it either."

Advocates, on the other hand, say any alliance with ICE in the face of
anti-immigrant laws in Arizona, South Carolina, Georgia, Utah, Indiana and
Alabama -- as well as the recent presence of two ICE agents on a San Jose police
gang unit -- could create an even bigger risk by undermining immigrant
communities' trust in the police, making people afraid to report crimes as
witnesses or even as victims. In a recent local case, two San Jose brothers who
are illegal immigrants badly beat a man who molested an 8-year-old girl in their
household rather than call the police, partly out of fear of being deported.

Since even progressive politicians in California tend to be cautious on public
safety issues -- especially in San Jose, which likes to boast that it's one of
the nation's safest big cities -- how did Santa Clara County wind up a darling
of the ACLU?

Actually, until the dot-com bust and the state's fiscal crunch, the county had
long been known as "Santa Claus County," largely because of its extensive mental
health programs and take-all-comers public hospital.

And in recent years, the county has become known as one of the few in the
country to adopt "nanny state" and environmental laws such as bans on plastic
bags and Happy Meal toys -- and for requiring certain restaurants to post
calorie counts.

On realignment, the county was able to draw on its previous positive experience
with juvenile-justice reform programs, which have reduced the number of kids in
juvenile hall and shifted the emphasis at youth ranches from punishment to
rehabilitation. So when the state set out to trim its prison population and
costs by unloading responsibility this fall for incarcerating and rehabilitating
thousands of lower-level felons on local governments, Santa Clara County was
ready.

The liberal view on the immigration issue prevailed for at least three reasons.

The policy stems from a federal program called Secure Communities meant to snare
noncitizen immigrants -- both illegal and legal -- with criminal histories. The
program requires local jailers to share the fingerprints of everyone booked with
ICE. Santa Clara County leaders tried to avoid complying with the program out of
concerns about community trust and the breakup of families.

Since May 2010, when the county was forced to take part, it has sought ways to
reduce its role. So it leapt at the opportunity to do so after Cook County led
the way.

Another factor was the influence of Supervisor George Shirakawa Jr., who is part
Latino and part Japanese-American -- and the only minority on the board. He
represents the 2nd District, which includes East San Jose and is 56 percent
Latino. He has gone so far as to say that U.S. citizens and illegal immigrants
"should be treated equally" in the criminal justice system.

The policy also was pushed by a well-organized alliance of groups, including
PACT, the Asian Law Alliance, the Service for Immigrant Rights and Education
Network and Sacred Heart Community Service, a secular nonprofit that provides
food, adult education and other services to the needy.

The groups told the board that community trust between the immigrant community
and law enforcement hit an all-time low in the summer when two ICE agents began
collaborating with San Jose police after a rash of gang homicides.

Community organizers have coined a term that could put Santa Clara County's
latest liberal policy on the map. Instead of the "Arizonification of America,"
said community activist Raj Jayadev, referring to the recent wave of tough
immigration-enforcement statutes that began with Arizona, "now, we are hoping
for the 'SantaClarafication' of the country."

Contact Tracey Kaplan at 408-278-3482.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (HD Video) Members of the Probation Department of Santa Clara County
question an inmate during a pre-release visit at the San Quentin Correctional
Facility in San Quentin, Calif. on Sept. 29, 2011. Edmund Ruvalcaba is the
inmate being interviewed. The purpose of their visit is to access the needs of
inmates who will shortly be paroled back into the county. A new "realignment"
plan gets under way this week that will shift the responsibility of
rehabilitating thousands of nonviolent felons from the state prison system to
the local counties. Santa Clara County is one of the small number of counties
reaching out to these future parolees to offer help as they readjust to life
back in their community. (Gary Reyes / Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Ruben Navarrette: Newt Gingrich and the politics of the good

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 613 words


SAN DIEGO -- With Newt Gingrich being attacked for his common-sense immigration
proposal by purists on both the right and the left, someone should defend the
former House speaker.

Glad to do it. The perfect can't be the enemy of the good. What Gingrich
proposes isn't perfect, but it is pretty good. He wants to create what he calls
"a path to legality" for people with deep ties to this country, so as to not
split up families. Illegal immigrants could receive work permits so they could
remain in the U.S. and keep their families intact. They would no longer be
hunted by headline-grabbers such as Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County,
Ariz., or swept up by the Obama administration's deportation machine.

There is a catch. Illegal immigrants wouldn't get U.S. citizenship in the
bargain. They could still become citizens, but they'd have to do it by returning
to their home countries, then re-entering the U.S. legally and going through
proper channels to become naturalized.

This could work. Citizenship and the voting privileges that come with it have
always been less important to the immigrants themselves than to Democrats, who
salivate at the thought of millions of new voters with a grudge against
Republicans. I've spoken to many illegal immigrants, and what they want is to
work and support their families without being hassled. Most do not have a
burning desire to go into the voting booth and choose the lesser of two evils.

For the right-wingers, who like to boil down their opposition to slogans that
fit on bumper stickers, a work-permit plan is "amnesty." For the left-wingers,
who like to hold Republicans to high standards regarding how they treat
immigrants while holding President Barack Obama to no standards whatsoever, it
is a formula for second-class status.

Actually, it's neither. Those are merely buzzwords that the right and the left
throw out to rile up the faithful. What Gingrich proposes -- i.e., the "red-card
solution" designed by the Denver-based Vernon K. Krieble Foundation, where
illegal immigrants would get red cards signifying that they have the legal right
to work -- would certainly be an improvement on what we have now. Besides, given
the vacuous nature of our politics, a candidate should get credit for being bold
enough to propose an idea and stand by it. Most candidates play it safe and
simply criticize the proposals of others, while telling audiences what they want
to hear.

The right needs to grow up. It's not enough to just repeat the word "amnesty" 10
times a day as a way of short-circuiting the immigration debate. We need to hear
real solutions and real ideas, and those who can offer neither should get out of
the way. If the red-card solution isn't the way to go, then what would Romney or
any other Gingrich critic propose that we do with the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the U.S.? They never tell us.

The left needs to grow up as well. Liberals turn up their noses at Gingrich's
half a loaf, and insist that it isn't enough. Yet they gush over the crumbs from
the Obama administration. The president promises reform while Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano promises everyone else "a very robust" deportation
policy. This "good cop-bad cop" routine is wearing thin.

Both camps have strong views about what should happen in a perfect world. The
right thinks that millions of illegal immigrants will just voluntarily go home
if we're mean to them, and the left thinks that they can all stay, become U.S.
citizens and join the PTA. As far as the extremes are concerned, those are
perfect outcomes. But they are mirages.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette:

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 715 words


SAN DIEGO -- With Newt Gingrich being attacked for his common-sense immigration
proposal by purists on both the right and the left, someone should defend the
former House speaker.

Glad to do it. The perfect can't be the enemy of the good. What Gingrich
proposes isn't perfect, but it is pretty good. He wants to create what he calls
"a path to legality" for people with deep ties to this country, so as to not
split up families. Illegal immigrants could receive work permits so they could
remain in the U.S. and keep their families intact. They would no longer be
hunted by headline-grabbers such as Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County,
Ariz., or swept up by the Obama administration's deportation machine.

There is a catch. Illegal immigrants wouldn't get U.S. citizenship in the
bargain. They could still become citizens, but they'd have to do it by returning
to their home countries, then re-entering the U.S. legally and going through
proper channels to become naturalized. They'd get the steak, but no sauce.

This could work. Citizenship and the voting privileges that come with it have
always been less important to the immigrants themselves than to Democrats, who
salivate at the thought of millions of new voters with a grudge against
Republicans. I've spoken to many illegal immigrants, and what they want is to
work and support their families without being hassled. Most do not have a
burning desire to go into the voting booth and choose the lesser of two evils.

For the right-wingers, who like to boil down their opposition to slogans that
fit on bumper stickers, a work-permit plan is "amnesty."

For the left-wingers, who like to hold Republicans to high standards regarding
how they treat immigrants while holding President Barack Obama to no standards
whatsoever, it is a formula for second-class status.

Actually, it's neither. Those are merely buzzwords that the right and the left
throw out to rile up the faithful. What Gingrich proposes -- i.e., the "red-card
solution" designed by the Denver-based Vernon K. Krieble Foundation, where
illegal immigrants would get red cards signifying that they have the legal right
to work -- would certainly be an improvement on what we have now. Besides, given
the vacuous nature of our politics, a candidate should get credit for being bold
enough to propose an idea and stand by it. Most candidates play it safe and
simply criticize the proposals of others, while telling audiences what they want
to hear.

That's not how Newt rolls. And this is one reason why Gingrich snagged the
endorsement of one of New Hampshire's most influential newspapers, the Union
Leader, even though Mitt Romney -- as the former governor of neighboring
Massachusetts -- was thought to have the inside track.

The front-page editorial went like this: "We look for conservatives of courage
and conviction who are independent-minded, grounded in their core beliefs about
this nation and its people, and best equipped for the job. ... In this
incredibly important election, that candidate is Newt Gingrich."

The right needs to grow up. It's not enough to just repeat the word "amnesty" 10
times a day as a way of short-circuiting the immigration debate. We need to hear
real solutions and real ideas, and those who can offer neither should get out of
the way. If the red-card solution isn't the way to go, then what would Romney or
any other Gingrich critic propose that we do with the estimated 11 million
illegal immigrants in the U.S.? They never tell us.

The left needs to grow up as well. Liberals turn up their noses at Gingrich's
half a loaf, and insist that it isn't enough. Yet they gush over the crumbs from
the Obama administration. The president promises reform while Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano promises everyone else "a very robust" deportation
policy. This "good cop-bad cop" routine is wearing thin.

Both camps have strong views about what should happen in a perfect world. The
right thinks that millions of illegal immigrants will just voluntarily go home
if we're mean to them, and the left thinks that they can all stay, become U.S.
citizens and join the PTA.

As far as the extremes are concerned, those are perfect outcomes. But they are
mirages.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

Meg Whitman kicks off California GOP convention

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 685 words


SAN DIEGO -- The GOP's state convention opened Friday with gubernatorial
candidate Meg Whitman emphasizing jobs, jobs and jobs -- and a band of
conservative dissidents wanting to talk instead about illegal immigration.

In a speech to hundreds of delegates Friday night, the former eBay CEO said the
unemployment crisis was "tearing at the fabric of our very culture." She accused
government of abetting the crisis by strangling businesses with unnecessary
rules and regulations.

At a spirited rally hours earlier at a local solar firm, Whitman said her
opponent, Attorney General Jerry Brown, "will in fact raise your taxes" despite
his promises not to do so without voters' approval. Whitman attacked the former
governor's "lifetime in politics," saying he had left "a legacy of failure."

They're becoming familiar themes for Whitman, who is basing her campaign largely
on her business record and has apologized for paying little attention to
politics -- or even voting -- for most of her life.

Before Whitman spoke to the delegates at San Diego's Manchester Grand Hyatt, a
group of hard-core conservatives held a renegade news conference to call on the
party to reaffirm its support of Proposition 187, a 1994 California ballot
measure that would have denied most public services to illegal immigrants. The
proposition was later struck down in federal court.

The group introduced a resolution that would also back a new Arizona law
requiring immigrants to show their residency papers if stopped by police.

Among the dissidents were a former chairman of the California GOP, a young
Republican leader and the president of the conservative California Republican
Assembly, which Ronald Reagan once called "the conscience of the Republican
Party."

If Whitman, a fiscal conservative who is moderate on most social issues, doesn't
support the Arizona law, the critics warned, she risks alienating much of the
GOP base and seeing many conservative voters stay home on Election Day or vote
for a minor-party candidate.

The dissidents also worried that Whitman wouldn't motivate voters with carefully
nuanced positions on illegal immigration. One example: She has said she believes
the Arizona law "should stand in Arizona" but doesn't feel it's right for
California.

Mike Schroeder of Orange County, a former chairman of the state Republican
Party, criticized Whitman for dancing too close to the political center since
winning her primary battle against Steve Poizner, who forced her to move right
on the illegal-immigration issue.

After pummeling Poizner on June 8, Whitman quickly began courting Latinos in
Spanish-language TV ads by emphasizing her opposition to the Arizona law and
Proposition 187.

"There's almost nothing left of the primary Meg," said Schroeder, who supported
Poizner.

Convention delegates are set to vote on the resolution Sunday morning. But while
there appears to be little chance of it passing, given the party's stated
interest in attracting a broader array of ethnic groups, the skirmish does
indicate a challenge for Whitman.

Latinos, who tend to feel the Arizona law is racist, represent 20 percent of the
electorate, and Whitman will need to attract a chunk of their votes to beat
Brown. She'll also need to win a solid majority of California independent
voters, who generally lean left.

In regard to Friday's dust-up, Whitman said: "We might have certain
disagreements on certain issues. But I believe the Republican Party will come
together to defeat Jerry Brown in the fall."

She pounded themes she hopes will overshadow the split on illegal immigration,
including the idea that -- as a billionaire who has largely self-funded her
campaign -- she isn't beholden to the union groups that are supporting Brown.

She said that GOP delegates have "100 percent alignment on the fiscal issues,"
which include creating jobs, fixing education "and getting government under
control."

Brian Seitchik, a spokesman for the California Republican Party, also downplayed
the opening-day friction.

"It's democracy in action," he said. "My wife and I don't agree on everything."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Supporters of the Gubernatorial Candidate for the California Republican
Party greeted Meg Whitman, at the Manchester Grand Hyatt in San Diego, Friday
August 20, 2010. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury News)
The Gubernatorial Candidate for the California Republican Party Meg Whitman made
a stop at Solar Gard in San Diego, to promote her candidacy Friday August 20,
2010. Her speech focused on Jobs and Jerry Brown. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury
News)
The Gubernatorial Candidate for the California Republican Party Meg Whitman made
a stop at Solar Gard in San Diego, to promote her candidacy Friday August 20,
2010. Her speech focused on Jobs and Jerry Brown. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury
News)
The Gubernatorial Candidate for the California Republican Party Meg Whitman made
a stop at Solar Gard in San Diego, to promote her candidacy Friday August 20,
2010. Her speech focused on Jobs and Jerry Brown. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury
News)
The Gubernatorial Candidate for the California Republican Party Meg Whitman made
a stop at Solar Gard in San Diego, to promote her candidacy Friday August 20,
2010. Her speech focused on Jobs and Jerry Brown. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury
News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 8, 2010 Friday

Jan. 11 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 749 words


'Illegal immigrant' term fosters racism

Ruben Navarrette Jr.'s column (Opinion, Jan. 1) completely disregards the
consequences of using the term "illegal immigrants."

It perpetuates hate and discrimination against a community of people from
throughout the world who come to the United States, work hard, seek a better
life and pour billions of dollars into our national, state and local economies.

The debate over the term "illegal immigrant" is not a legal one but a political
one. The purpose of demeaning a group of people by labeling them "illegal" is
only to highlight the separation between the deserving and undeserving, the
superior and inferior, the "right and wrong."

Allowing the usage of the term supports racist sentiment and violent
enforcement.

Zelica Rodriguez

Policy Advocacy Program Director Services, Immigrant Rights & Education Network
(SIREN) San Jose

Putting health care costs in perspective

Every week the United States spends close to $2 billion on the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan. But at home we are unable to take care of our own. Millions of
people in America lack adequate health insurance.

The current Senate bill would cost $1.675 billion a week over 10 years while
reducing the federal deficit by $132 billion.

Common sense tells me the money spent on the wars could be better spent.

Of course national security is important, but when we compare the cost of health
care to the cost of war the argument of health care costing too much fades away.

Ryan Tursi

Alameda

Instead of ban, why not be responsible?

I want to take exception with Regan Ryan Hunt's call to "Make fireplace use
illegal all year long" (Letters, Jan. 4). As someone who derives part of my
income from the sale of gas fireplace logs (which are exempted from the "Spare
the Air" days) I certainly glean some economic benefit from this sentiment.

However, I'm not sure I want to see someone's enjoyment of an open fire
curtailed anymore than I want to a family restricted from getting in their aging
SUV and driving up to San Francisco for a day at the aquarium.

It's all about being responsible   simply don't burn wood when the air is
unhealthy. And if all wood fireplace burning is outlawed, doesn't it make sense
that the backyard barbecue will be next?

Jonathan Kermit

San Jose

Energy reform bill needs more work

I am not a supporter of cap-and-trade laws but support laws that both stop
pollution and encourage investment to curtail and limit pollution.

President Barack Obama has lost control over the legislative process for energy
reform by allowing competing bills in the House and Senate to be introduced.
Getting the Democratic leaders to agree on one bill and then have one senator or
representative introduce that bill first would have been the smart thing to do.

Removing cap-and-trade from the equation will help Obama, and then he can
revisit the energy reform bill in 2011 to see what may need to be changed.

Andrew Smith

Campbell

Teach to test, then apply knowledge

Kids can memorize vocabulary and facts to pass the standardized test.
Universities and employers want problem solvers, students who can apply their
knowledge. Yes, I teach to the test so the students become great test-takers.

Students learn how to score the highest on the standardized tests that guide
their future opportunities. Do I teach the standards? Yes, so that students know
how to apply newly acquired knowledge to the world around them.

They learn to hypothesize, to analyze and how to work as a team to complete a
project.

They learn that the answer will not be A or D, and they may not know the answer;
however, they can conduct a scientific investigation to guide them, finding
answers through valid research.

Leslie Funk

Chemistry teacher Leland High School San Jose

Autism not being fought on level field

Our society is not doing enough to address the needs of children and families
living with autism.

As was pointed out in the Mercury News' coverage (Page 1A, Jan. 6) of a recent
UC-Davis study, "College-educated parents of autistic children are more likely
to fight for a diagnosis and seek the state-funded services that accompany it
than less-educated parents."

What about the other kids, who fights for them?

In the case of high-functioning autism or Asperger's syndrome, some children can
be brought close to "neuro-typical" levels.

But such a path requires an early diagnosis, early intervention, a lot of
resources, and a lot of hard work.

We cannot afford to be passive on this issue. Autism is an epidemic.

Pete Campbell

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 22, 2010 Monday

North Korea to try American for illegal entry

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; World

LENGTH: 328 words


SEOUL, South Korea   North Korea said Monday that it will put an American on
trial for illegally entering the country from China.

State-run media identified him as 30-year-old Aijalon Mahli Gomes, of Boston,
and said "his crime has been confirmed." The brief dispatch from the Korean
Central News Agency did not say when he would stand triimal.

KCNA said Gomes was born in 1979 but provided no further details. North Korea
had said in January that an American was in its custody but did not identify him
until Monday.

There was no immediate confirmation from the State Department about the man's
identity. State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley said last week that Swedish
diplomats in Pyongyang have had access to an American in North Korean custody.

Gomes would be the fourth American detained in communist North Korea on charges
of illegal entry in the past year. It was not immediately clear why he crossed
into North Korea.

Two American journalists, Laura Ling and Euna Lee, were arrested a year ago near
the Chinese border and sentenced to 12 years of hard labor for illegal entry and
engaging in "hostile acts." They were freed in August after former U.S.
President Bill Clinton made a high-profile humanitarian visit to Pyongyang to
negotiate their release.

On Christmas, American missionary Robert Park strode into North Korea from China
on a self-proclaimed mission to draw attention to North Korea's human rights
record. He was released last month after more than 40 days in custody.

Monday's announcement comes as regional powers are pushing for North Korea to
rejoin international talks on dismantling its nuclear weapons program.

Pyongyang abandoned an aid-for-disarmament pact and pulled out of the
negotiations last year to protest criticism of a rocket launch widely decried as
a violation of U.N. sanctions.

North Korea's move to test a nuclear bomb weeks later prompted the U.N. Security
Council to further tighten sanctions against the impoverished regime.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

In brief

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 265 words


WASHINGTON

Former Vice President Cheney hospitalized

Former Vice President Dick Cheney was admitted to the hospital Friday after
experiencing discomfort, the latest health scare for the 69-year-old Republican
leader who has a long history of heart disease.

Cheney was expected to remain at George Washington University Hospital through
the weekend, said spokesman Peter Long.

It was not immediately clear whether Cheney's health concern was related to his
previous heart troubles.

Oregon

Accuser: Gore acted like a 'crazed sex poodle'

Portland Police have released an audio recording of the interview between a
detective and the massage therapist who accused former Vice President Al Gore of
groping her in 2006.

The woman spoke with Detective Molly Daul in January 2009. During the interview,
the massage therapist describes Gore as a "crazed sex poodle" as she details the
moves he made during a late-night appointment.

Police declined to file charges against Gore, citing insufficient evidence.

PHOENIX

Ariz. gov: Most illegals are smuggling drugs

Gov. Jan Brewer said Friday that most illegal immigrants entering Arizona are
being used to transport drugs across the border, an assertion that critics
slammed as racist.

Brewer said the motivation of "a lot" of the illegal immigrants is to enter the
United States to look for work, but that drug rings press them into duty as drug
"mules."

"The majority of the illegal trespassers that are coming into the state of
Arizona are under the direction and control of organized drug cartels and they
are bringing drugs in," she said.

From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


Washington, D.C.

Reid to push bill to help young illegal immigrants

Senate majority leader Harry Reid announced Wednesday that he would push to
bring up a bill that would create a path to citizenship for certain illegal
immigrants who were brought to the United States as small children.

Reid tried to attach the legislation as an amendment to the military policy bill
before the midterm elections, but Republicans blocked it.

The legislation would give legal residency to immigrants who arrived in the
United States before age 16 and lived here for at least five years, graduated
from high school and completed two years of college or military service. They
would be subject to background checks and could not have criminal records.

Air Force warns troops against Facebook dangers

The Air Force is warning its troops to be careful when using Facebook and other
popular networking sites because some new features could show the enemy exactly
where U.S. forces are located in war zones.

In a warning issued on its internal website this month, the Air Force said that
"careless use of these services by airmen can have devastating operations
security and privacy implications." The message was also sent to senior
commanders, who were asked to get the word out.

Sarah Palin says she could beat Obama in 2012

Sarah Palin says she could defeat President Barack Obama if she seeks the White
House in 2012.

In an excerpt of an ABC News interview released Wednesday, the 2008 Republican
vice-presidential nominee says she's considering a presidential run. When asked
directly if she thought she could defeat Obama, the former Alaska governor
replied, "I believe so."

From The Associated Press and New York Times

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 6, 2010 Monday

Owners of El Balazo restaurant chain charged with tax fraud and hiring illegal
immigrants

BYLINE: By Roman Gokhman Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 229 words


OAKLAND -- The owners of the El Balazo restaurant chain have been charged with
20 counts of tax evasion, conspiracy and employing more than 60 illegal
immigrants at their restaurants.

Pleasanton residents Marino Sandoval, 57, and his wife, Nicole, 50, were
arraigned and are free on a $100,000-bond, U.S. District Court prosecutors said.

The complaint against them alleges the couple concealed their restaurants'
register sales and monthly summaries from their accountant who prepared the
sales tax returns and federal tax returns, and the defendants' joint personal
income tax returns, and then underreported the income generated by the
restaurants.

The crimes occurred in 2003 through 2006, according to the complaint.

The defendants are also alleged to have paid employees under the table and
concealed the payments from both their accountant and the Internal Revenue
Service.

The two also allegedly hired illegal immigrants as employees between 2002 and
2006. When federal agents served search warrants at all of the restaurants, 64
illegal immigrants were arrested.

Marino Sandoval's brother, Francisco Sandoval, 54, of Alameda, was previously
charged and pleaded guilty to failure to pay taxes and harboring illegal
immigrants for financial gain.

Francisco Sandoval was the partner and manager of two El Balazo restaurants in
San Francisco. He is scheduled to be sentenced Dec 9.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

Republicans block Dream Act

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 644 words


WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans on Saturday doomed an effort that would have
given hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants a path to legal status
if they enrolled in college or joined the military.

Sponsors of the Dream Act fell five votes short of the 60 they needed to break
through largely GOP opposition and win its enactment before Republicans take
over the House and narrow Democrats' majority in the Senate next month.

President Barack Obama called the vote "incredibly disappointing."

"A minority of senators prevented the Senate from doing what most Americans
understand is best for the country," Obama said. "There was simply no reason not
to pass this important legislation."

Dozens of immigrants wearing graduation mortarboards watched from the Senate's
visitors gallery, disappointment on their faces, as the 55-41 vote was
announced.

"This is a dark day in America," said Jorge-Mario Cabrera, a spokesman for the
Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles. "The Senate has ... thrown
under the bus the lives and hard work of thousands and thousands of students who
love this country like their own home, and, in fact, they have no other home."

Hispanic activists and immigrant advocates had looked to the bill as a down
payment on what they had hoped would be broader action by Obama and the
Democratic-controlled Congress to give the nation's 10 million to 12 million
illegal immigrants a chance at legal status.

It targeted the most sympathetic of the millions of illegal immigrants -- those
brought to the United States as children, who in many cases consider themselves
American, speak English and have no ties to or family living in their native
countries.

"They stand in the classrooms and pledge allegiance to our flag," said Sen. Dick
Durbin, D-Ill., the bill's chief sponsor. "This is the only country they have
ever known. All they're asking for is a chance to serve this nation."

Critics called the bill a backdoor grant of amnesty that would encourage more
foreigners to sneak into the United States in hopes of being legalized
eventually.

"Treating the symptoms of the problem might make us feel better ... but it can
allow the underlying problem to metastasize," said Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz.
"Unfortunately, that's what's happening at our border."

The legislation would have provided a route to legal status for an estimated 1
million to 2 million illegal immigrants who were brought to the U.S. before age
16, have been here for five years, graduated from high school or gained an
equivalency degree and who joined the military or attend college.

Democrats' determination to vote on the bill before year's end reflected the
party's efforts to satisfy Hispanic groups whose backing has been critical in
recent elections and will be again in 2012. They said they'll try again in the
next Congress, despite the increased GOP presence.

"The echo of this vote will be loud and long," said Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez,
D-Ill., a key House sponsor of the bill. "We are at the tipping point that will
define the political alignment of the Republican and Democratic parties with
Latino voters for a generation."

"This country has a history of opening its arms," said Sen. Barbara Boxer,
D-Calif. "Today, it's arms were closed, but we're going to get there."

Three Republicans -- Robert Bennett of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and
Richard Lugar of Indiana -- joined 50 Democrats and the Senate's two
independents in voting for the bill.

Five Democrats -- Max Baucus and Jon Tester of Montana, Kay Hagan of North
Carolina, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Mark Pryor of Arkansas -- joined 36
Republicans in blocking it. Not voting were Republican Sens. Jim Bunning of
Kentucky, Orrin Hatch of Utah and Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, and Democratic
Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia.

------

Associated Press reporter Sofia Mannos contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday

Peninsula readers' letters:

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 961 words


Propaganda for illegal residents

Dear Editor: Columnist Tom Elias is quite the cheerleader for citizens of other
countries living here illegally. His latest effort ("The case for counting
California's illegal immigrants in the census," March 17) mates truth   the
Constitution's 14th Amendment does require us to count them   with fallacy   the
rosy fantasy that their presence helps us.

And even the truth is fallacious. The 14th Amendment was about enfranchising
ex-slaves, not illegals. It has become an unintended loophole that should be
closed, along with the amendment's other loophole that made slaves' children
automatic citizens. That's now used to make automatic citizens out of illegals'
children born here. Most other nations with similar loopholes have closed them.

But Elias doesn't stop there. He dismisses the claim that illegals cost more
than they contribute, stating that "this, of course, disregards all taxes they
pay." Frankly, some rabid anti-illegals groups do inflate the numbers, but the
respected, nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) concluded that illegals
impose a net cost to state and local governments   very much including the taxes
they pay.

And the CBO didn't even include illegals' impact on the wages of American
blue-collar workers (including blacks and Latinos), the money they send out of
the country instead of spending here, and the impact of some illegals' criminal
activities. No one can produce hard figures for these factors, but it should be
obvious that it's Elias who "disregards" the negative impact of illegals on
America.

Lee Thé,

Palo Alto

Thin-skinned city councils

Dear Editor: Being a Mountain View resident, I was very interested in the San
Francisco Chronicle article on the Santa Cruz man who was arrested for quietly
standing up in a city council meeting and giving a mock Nazi salute to
then-mayor Christopher Krohn. It was reminiscent of Palo Alto's then-mayor Jim
Burch's rant against retired public defender Aram James when James criticized
the city manager's actions at a council meeting. Aram James was not arrested in
Palo Alto, but then-council member Jack Morton did request the police to
respond.

Both these incidents drew police action as "disruptions" of city council
meetings.

Mountain View's mayors will reprimand audiences for clapping for speakers who
dissent with council decisions but encourage clapping when praise is given for
their actions. Speakers are given more time if they agree with the council and
less if they disagree.

I am pleased the court will allow this man a hearing   and I hope we are
notified of the court results. I would hope Mountain View residents would be
able to discuss consent calendar spending items   and even dissent on council
actions   as the law allows.

Donald Letcher,

Mountain View

Liberties and health care

Dear Editor: In 1948, the Soviet Union moved to envelope West Germany. It
blockaded road, rail and water access to West Berlin. I remember the American
cries of protest   "stand firm in Berlin"   while an airlift prevented their
tyranny. West German wealth and resources were not transferred to a socialist
government needing more to sustain its dependent people. Now we see desperation
through dependence in parts of Europe. Failure to meet promises to the people is
causing riots in Greece and severe economic pain in Portugal, Italy and Spain.
Unemployment there is over 20 percent. (I remember the grim faces on East
Germans we saw on a visit before the Berlin Wall came down.)

Oblivious, powerful U.S. leaders now destroy our republic's constitutional
standards, justifying any means needed to give President Obama a revered health
care bill to sign and gain power over the life and death of U.S. people through
many unelected bureaucracies, often dominated by extremist cronies who gathered
the payments for our leaders' political power. If we allow this corruption and
ignorance to transform constitutional protections of liberty for our people for
the ideal of an imagined "right of free health care," very soon many in our
nation could be much like the people in Greece.

The degradation of free markets for medical practices, drugs and hospitalization
insurance progressed over many years. Many believe Obama's signature on
Washington's recent power grab would soon finish off one-sixth of our demonized
private economy. What would replace that economic engine?

Carol Baker,

Redwood City

Rationalizing hatred

Dear Editor: After reading Mr. Steinberg's March 18 letter criticizing Israel's
right to build in its own capital, it saddens me that a descendant of German
Jews evicted by the Nazis hasn't bothered to learn the facts about his own
ancestral homeland.

Jerusalem had a Jewish majority in 1948; at that time in their failed efforts to
destroy the new state of Israel, the Arabs massacred, mutilated, exiled or
desecrated every trace of Jewish existence in the eastern part of the city. For
the next 19 years, nobody cared about Jerusalem until Israel took back what was
its in 1967. Not one Arab leader besides Jordanian leaders bothered to visit the
so-called holy shrine, the Al Aqsa Mosque, from 1948-1967.

The land on which Israel builds in Jerusalem was, for the most part,
Jewish-owned in 1948 or vacant thereafter. Israel allows Arabs access to its
court system to challenge ownership claims, some of which have been successful.
When an Israeli court rejects such Arab claims, that apparently doesn't satisfy
Mr. Steinberg. He believes in a higher authority   his own.

It is one thing to criticize the existence of the state of Israel because you
hate Jews. The Arabs and many others do that shamelessly every day. It is quite
another to rationalize that hatred by making comparisons that simply don't hold
water.

Desmond Tuck,

San Mateo

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

Lawyer: Whitman 'exploited' illegal-immigrant housekeeper

BYLINE: By Lisa Fernandez, Ken McLaughlin and Josh Richman Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1029 words


In an explosive allegation unleashed the morning after the first gubernatorial
debate, a lawyer for Republican Meg Whitman's former housekeeper said the
candidate for governor knew the woman was probably an illegal immigrant for
years and fired her only after she launched her campaign.

Los Angeles attorney Gloria Allred said today that the housekeeper, Nicandra
Diaz Santillan, who went by the name Nicky Diaz, was "exploited, disrespected,
humiliated and emotionally and financially abused" by Whitman, the billionaire
former eBay CEO who is running against Democrat Jerry Brown.

In an tearful appearance at a news conference in Los Angeles, Diaz said Whitman
had callously dismissed her because she feared it would hurt her chances of
being elected governor. "She treated me as if I was not a human being," she
said.

Allred said at the same news conference that the Social Security Administration
sent Whitman a letter dated April 22, 2003, saying the Social Security number
provided by the housekeeper did not match the name on file.

Allred said, "Nicky was told to 'check on this.'''

The attorney did not make clear whether it was Whitman or her husband who
allegedly told her that.

"Nicky also alleges that for several more years, Ms. Whitman continued to
receive letters from the Social Security Administration office regarding the
mismatch in the Social Security numbers,'' Allred said. "She alleges that she
saw these letters after they were thrown in the trash.''

Whitman, however, told reporters during an appearance at Cisco Systems in San
Jose that she had received no notification from any government agency of any
discrepancy between the Social Security number and the name.

"We never received that letter or that notification," she said, adding the
housekeeper was hired through an employment agency that she relied on to check
the worker's information. The Whitman campaign said the employment agency's form
contained Social Security and driver's license numbers.

Lowell Kepke, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, said in an
e-mail to the Mercury News that he couldn't confirm or deny that a "no-match
letter'' was sent to Whitman's household because "wage and tax data'' is
protected by the Internal Revenue Code.

"I feel bad for her, she's being manipulated, I think, and I'm sorry for that,"
Whitman said. "Everything Gloria Allred is saying is a lie."

Whitman said she fired the woman as soon as she said in June 2009 that she was
in the country illegally. "No one could've been more stunned than I was,"
Whitman said.

Whitman says the incident underscores the need for an eVerify system to check
workers' documentation. She said she didn't disclose the situation herself while
on the campaign trail because she didn't want to make a public example of
someone who had been so close to her family.

Asked what should happen to the woman now, Whitman said that's up to federal
immigration authorities.

Because Diaz now could face deportation by coming forward, Allred called Diaz's
decision to speak out "the most courageous decision I've seen in 35 years of
practicing law.''

Allred said she was only recently contacted by Diaz, who got her name from
another attorney's referral.

Family members at the Union City home of the woman would not talk to reporters,
citing advice from Allred.

The Whitman campaign tried to blunt the impact of Allred's news conference by
holding its own a half-hour earlier and releasing Diaz's employment form.

"What's a California governor's race without Gloria Allred inserting herself?"
said campaign senior adviser Rob Stutzman.

He said he found it "really curious" that the news conference was held the day
after Whitman performed well in a debate with Brown, who Stutzman said is a
"personal friend" of Allred and a campaign donor.

"The timing is curious," he said. "This is the post-debate smoke bomb."

But the allegations are sure to roil the campaign and threaten to undermine one
of Whitman's main political goals: to attract a relatively large share of the
Latino voting population to overcome the Democrats registration advantage.

"This has to hurt badly," said Jaime Regalado, director of the Pat Brown
Institute of Public Affairs at California State Los Angeles. "This could cut
away at the credibility of her attempt to reach out to Latinos."

If Whitman's response comes off as harsh, there could be an even more resounding
boomerang effect, Regalado said. It also plays into the characterization of
Whitman as a bullying CEO, someone who mistreats those below her.

"If she responds with character assassination, it'll play out for a longer
time," Regalado said. "It will be contentious, bullying Meg Whitman and it will
remind some of the shoving incident."

Earlier this year, a New York Times story reported that she had to pay a
$200,000 settlement to a former employee for shoving an employee.

Whitman's hopes of containing the potential damage rests on whether Allred can
prove that Whitman knew her employee was an undocumented worker, said Jack
Pitney, government professor at Claremont McKenna College.

"The open question is whether people will see this as a legitimate outpouring of
somebody in difficult straits or if they're being manipulated by the Brown
campaign," Pitney said. "It has the potential to be hurtful or it could be just
a passing episode."

Brown's campaign kept its distance from the allegations, sensitive to the
charges that Allred is trying to bolster Brown, whom she has contributed $1,150
over the years, including $150 in 2006 and $1,000 in 1982. She said on CNN in
2007 that she knows Brown "personally."

Steve Russell, one of Whitman's next-door neighbors, said he wasn't aware the
Republican gubernatorial candidate even had a housekeeper. He said he has
witnessed Whitman mowing her own lawn and power-washing the picket fence around
her two-story, cream-colored house.

Even if the allegations are true, "I do not find it hypocritical at all," said
Russell, who described himself as a "Non-Republican" who intends to vote for his
neighbor.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com . Mercury News staff
writer Joe Rodriguez contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nicky Diaz, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial
candidate Meg Whitman, listens as attorney Gloria Allred talks to reporters in
Los Angeles Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified
seven years ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did
nothing about it. (AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
Nicky Diaz, right, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial candidate
Meg Whitman, with attorney Gloria Allred, leaves a news conference in Los
Angeles Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified seven
years ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did nothing
about it. (AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
Nicky Diaz, left, former housekeeper for California GOP gubernatorial candidate
Meg Whitman, talks to reporters with attorney Gloria Allred in Los Angeles
Wednesday, Sept. 29, 2010. Diaz alleges that Whitman was notified seven years
ago that the worker might be in the country illegally, but did nothing about it.
(AP Photo/Reed Saxon)
California Republican Gubernatorial Candidate Meg Whitman at the San Jose
Mercury News Tuesday September 21, 2010. (Maria J. Avila Lopez/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 1, 2011 Tuesday

11.2 MILLION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN U.S. LAST YEAR, REPORT SAYS

BYLINE: By Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 228 words


About 11.2 million illegal immigrants were living in the United States in 2010,
a number essentially unchanged from the previous year, according to a report
published Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research
organization in Washington.

Despite continuing high unemployment among American workers, record deportations
by the Obama administration and expanding efforts by states to crack down, the
number of unauthorized immigrants in the work force -- about 8 million -- was
also unchanged, the Pew report found. Those workers were about 5 percent of the
U.S. work force.

The population of illegal immigrants leveled off after peaking in 2007 at 12
million, then dropping sharply over two years to 11.1 million in 2009, according
to the report, which is based on census data. The declines occurred primarily
because fewer people from Mexico and Central America came illegally to the U.S.,
Pew concluded.

The report found no evidence of an exodus of illegal immigrants from the
country. In particular, there is no sign that Mexicans, the largest group -- 58
percent -- of illegal immigrants, are leaving in larger numbers, the report
finds.

The Pew report suggests that the high numbers of unauthorized immigrants are
confounding enforcement efforts by the Obama administration and also a recent
spate of measures by state legislatures to crack down locally.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 8, 2011 Tuesday

GOP should cool rhetoric against illegal residents

BYLINE: By thomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 860 words


Dwight Eisenhower is usually recognized as a fine president, and an even better
general. But in the long run, he may be remembered as much for one warning he
issued three days before leaving office in 1961:

"We must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought
or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the
disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist," Eisenhower warned.
Americans, for the most part, paid little attention and the nation today spends
more on its military than all other countries in the world combined.

It was little noticed, but a termed-out Republican governor issued a different,
but possibly equally profound, warning to his party mates early this year, just
as he was about to leave office. This was just as unexpected as when Eisenhower,
the Allied commander in World War II and the pre-eminent American soldier of his
generation, warned that the armed services and the defense contractors tied to
them might acquire too much power and money.

The governor was Georgia's Sonny Perdue, his state's first GOP governor since
Reconstruction and long one of the most conservative politicians in America,
also an advocate of cracking down as hard as possible on illegal immigrants.
Perdue was well aware that his state will receive one new seat in Congress next
year on the strength of population growth largely fueled by Latino immigrants,
both legal and illegal.

His possibly prophetic statement went like this: "The Republican Party needs to
be very, very careful that it maintains the golden rule in its rhetoric
regarding immigration. Immigration is a very emotive, emotion-filled subject
that I think sometimes gets us out there where our hearts really aren't."

His party, Perdue added, "needs to ensure that people of color and people who
are not U.S.-born feel welcome. And I think that is the challenge of the
Republican Party."

That's also the lesson of California for the national GOP. Since 1994, when
ex-Gov. Pete Wilson ran for re-election using commercials that steadily repeated
the statement that "They keep coming," most California Latinos have not felt
welcomed by Republicans. Polls and voting results show this is generally as true
for legal immigrants and longtime residents as for illegals. One result of
Wilson's campaign is that more than 2 million California Latinos have become
citizens in the more than 16 years since. Another is that movie star muscleman
Arnold Schwarzenegger has been the only Republican elected to a top-of-ticket
job like governor or U.S. senator during that time.

For whenever rhetoric against illegal immigration becomes shrill, hate crimes
against Latinos rise, without regard to their legal status. Most Latinos know
this and it colors their voting behavior. This is part of the reason every
survey shows wide support among all types of Latinos for comprehensive
immigration reforms that assure humane treatment for all Hispanics now residing
in America.

Democrats in California always campaign on this plank. Most of their party mates
in other places do, too. Not coincidentally, Democrats almost always win
statewide races in California, which currently has no Republican in any major
office.

But national Republicans, despite Census numbers that demonstrate a fast-growing
Latino presence in many parts of America, still take strident stances against
illegal immigrants, rather than a conciliatory approach that would call for
tight borders but some way for illegals to attain documented status and eventual
citizenship.

An example is U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, new chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, who has announced hearings about increased border enforcement, ways
to increase arrests of illegals in their workplaces and expanding the E-Verify
employee identification program, now set to expire late next year.

At the same time, President Obama insists he won't give up his notion of
immigration reform, which calls for employer sanctions, a (difficult) path to
citizenship and strong border enforcement. It's pretty obvious which approach is
more likely to appeal to Latino citizens, who are today's fastest-growing group
of voters.

Perdue's warning to his party mates essentially asks them to take a humane
approach and not to be mean. It drew no response at all from the party's
national leadership.

It's almost as if the national GOP is suicidal on this issue, sticking to its
hard line no matter what the population trends and polls may say. Virtually
every survey indicates most Americans prefer an Obama-style approach.

It's fashionable among pundits these days to say that California's status as a
national trend-setter is not what it used to be, but the handwriting is plainly
on the wall for the national Republican Party: If it doesn't heed the Perdue
warning and soften its line on illegal immigration or advocate for humane
treatment of those already here, within the next decade or two it may follow the
path of its California branch and become almost irrelevant, no matter what
happened in last year's election.

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. E-mail
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday

Roundup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Los Angeles

Reward upped in Giants fan attack: The reward offered for information leading to
the arrests of two men who severely beat a San Francisco Giants fan at Dodger
Stadium has grown to $50,000 after the teams kicked in contributions.

Spokesman Josh Rawitch said Monday the Los Angeles Dodgers will contribute
$25,000. Giants spokeswoman Staci Slaughter said the team will pledge $10,000.

Bryan Stow, a 42-year-old paramedic from Santa Cruz, was badly beaten in a
stadium parking lot after last week's season opener and is in a medically
induced coma.

After the attack, Los Angeles County Supervisor Mike Antonovich announced a
$10,000 reward. Stow's employer contributed $5,000.

Police have released composite sketches of the two suspects, who were wearing
Dodgers attire.

Sacramento

GOP lawmaker promotes immigration bill: A Republican assemblyman and tea party
member has introduced an anti-illegal immigration bill loosely modeled on the
one that drew attention to Arizona last year.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, of San Bernardino County, said his bill would go after
so-called "sanctuary cities" and those who hire illegal immigrants.

It does not include language similar to the most high-profile provision of the
Arizona law, which directs law enforcement officers to check the citizenship
status of anyone they suspect of being in the country illegally. Critics said
that provision encourages racial profiling.

The legislation, AB 26, also increases punishments for sex and drug traffickers
and other smugglers. It calls for penalties to discourage hiring illegal day
laborers and requires citizenship verification for anyone applying for public
benefits.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Correction: Illegal immigrant population

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 50 words


A story on Wednesday's front page incorrectly reported the number of illegal
immigrants estimated to be living in the nine counties of the Bay Area,
according to a study by the Public Policy Institute of California. The correct
number is 563,000, which is about 8 percent of the total Bay Area population.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Youths trek from Miami to Washington for immigrant rights

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 435 words


MIAMI   While their fellow college students recovered from the night's revelry,
four South Floridians celebrated the New Year with a more active   and activist
approach.

The group set out Friday to begin a 1,500 mile journey they are calling the
"Trail of Dreams," from Miami's historic Freedom Tower to Washington, D.C.

The goal is to raise support for legislation that would include a path to
citizenship for eligible illegal immigrants.

The four, all immigrants themselves, plan to walk the entire distance, no matter
the weather.

They expect students and other supporters to join them along the way and plan to
arrive in the capital May 1, which has become a day of immigrant rights rallies
in recent years.

All are top students at local colleges and campus leaders.

Some are now here legally, some are not.

All say they are willing to take the risks that come with bringing attention to
the plight of students who, like themselves, were brought to the U.S. as
children and are now here illegally.

"I'm tired of coming back to school each semester and hearing about another
friend who was picked up and deported," Juan Rodriguez told a group of
supporters during a recent gathering.

Rodriguez, president of the student government at Miami Dade College's
InterAmerican Campus, and the others say they were inspired by the migrant
farmworkers who walked the length of California in the 1970s, and by the civil
rights marches of the 1960s.

On a recent December morning, the group led a practice walk under pelting rain
from downtown to a church in Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood. Also in
attendance was a group of immigrants from the farm community of Homestead, south
of Miami, which plans to begin a fast Jan. 1 to bring attention to immigration
reform.

They, like Rodriguez, believe writing letters and calling politicians is not
enough. Rodriguez noted that U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., recently
introduced an immigration bill in Congress but that such bills have been
introduced many times before.

He and the others want comprehensive immigration reform, meaning a path to
citizenship for qualified immigrants here illegally as well as improvements in
border security that respect immigrant communities.

They are also calling on President Barack Obama to halt the routine detention
and deportation of illegal immigrants who have children and spouses who are U.S.
citizens.

And they want him to halt the deportation of youths brought to the U.S. as
children, who are now here illegally but want to attend college or enter the
military in exchange for the chance of a green card through a so-called "Dream
Act."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday

Immigration reformers see parallels in MLK's work

BYLINE: By Deepti Hajela Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 622 words


NEW YORK   After almost nine years, Nigerian immigrant Emakoji Ayikoye is now an
American. The final step came at a naturalization ceremony, where he and about
100 others recited the citizenship oath.

But Thursday's ceremony was weighted with more symbolism than usual for the
32-year-old college math teacher. It was one of several being held nationwide in
honor of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. Another, on Friday in Atlanta, will
feature a speech from his daughter Bernice King.

Honoring the slain civil rights leader via a naturalization ceremony makes
perfect sense to Ayikoye. And around the country, immigration reform advocates
also are connecting their efforts to the work of King and the civil rights
movement, looking for inspiration and a way to gain support in hopes of passing
legislation in 2010.

King would have turned 81 on Friday. The holiday honoring him is Monday.

It's not unusual for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to hold
naturalization ceremonies around holidays such as July 4 or at places with ties
to immigrant history such as Ellis Island. But the week of events honoring King
is a first for the agency.

"When we greet new citizens into the United States we speak of the open
opportunities that our country presents to everyone around the world who
qualifies for the benefits our agency administers," said Alejandro Mayorkas, the
USCIS director. "Martin Luther King helped define those hopes and opportunities
for everyone."

Ayikoye said King "fought for the equality of people." He pointed out that the
reform of immigration laws that allowed more people from all over the world to
come to America took place as the civil rights movement was going on.

"His work paved the way for me to become a citizen," Ayikoye said. "Without him,
there is absolutely no way I would become a citizen today."

The efforts of King and others in the civil rights movement created a political
atmosphere in the 1960s that helped those who were trying to change the
country's immigration laws, said David Canton, associate professor of history at
Connecticut College in New London.

"The whole '60s were about democracy and reform," he said.

Immigration laws at the time were extremely restrictive and were biased in favor
of people from places such as northern Europe.

Those who wanted that changed "made people realize that it's not fair, it's not
democratic," Canton said.

The current basic framework, that all countries get the same number of visas,
was put into place through the Immigration and Nationality Services Act of 1965.

Those advocates who are hoping for reform to come again this year, with changes
including a path to citizenship for the nation's undocumented population, are
still looking toward King.

In Oakland, Calif., the Black Alliance for Just Immigration invokes King's
efforts to bring people together as it works to build support among blacks for
immigration reform.

The group tries to make links between what blacks have faced and what immigrants
face, said Gerald Lenoir, director of BAJI.

"Even some of the migration experiences of African-Americans, coming from the
South, leaving conditions of economic injustice and terrorism from both legal
authorities and groups like the Ku Klux Klan, we see that same kind of movement
in people across borders," he said.

In Houston, the Rev. Harvey Clemons Jr. wrote an editorial calling on people to
follow King's guidance on reform, in terms of working toward a system that
treats all who enter the United States with respect.

"Dr. King invoked the truth, the truth being that all humans ought to be treated
with a certain dignity," Clemons told The Associated Press. "It would be natural
for us to look to him as an example for fighting for a just cause."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

S.F. teenager facing deportation after getting in fight

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 244 words


SAN FRANCISCO   A woman and her 13-year-old son are scheduled to be deported to
Australia by Friday after the teenager was referred to immigration authorities
under a contentious city policy.

The fate of Tracey Washington and her son, who was not identified, called
attention to a measure instituted by Mayor Gavin Newsom in July 2008 that
required officials to hand to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement any minor
arrested for a felony and suspected of being in the country illegally.

Newsom adopted this stance after the city was accused of protecting from
deportation young offenders who went on to commit other crimes. According to
ICE, 167 minors have been referred to them under this policy.

Since then, the city's board of supervisors has voted to reverse Newsom's policy
and prohibit law enforcement from turning over minors to federal authorities
unless they are convicted of a felony. But the mayor has vowed not to enforce
the new measure, arguing it violates state and federal law.

In this case, the boy was charged with assault, extortion and robbery   charges
that would probably be reduced if he had a chance to go before a judge, said
Angela Chan, attorney with the Asian Law Caucus.

The boy entered the United States with his mother more than a year ago. Tracey
Washington married a U.S. citizen in April 2009, but she and her son, unaware
they had a 90-day deadline to apply for legal residency, missed their
opportunity and lost their legal status.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 11, 2010 Thursday

Obama backing of immigration overhaul 'unwavering'

BYLINE: By Darlene Superville Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State

LENGTH: 355 words


WASHINGTON   President Barack Obama on Thursday assured immigration advocates
frustrated by the wait for a promised overhaul of U.S. immigration laws that he
remains committed to fixing a system he has said is broken.

What remains unclear is whether Congress will send him a bill this year.

Obama also met separately later in the day with Sens. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who gave the president an outline of a bill they are
drafting. Obama said afterward in a statement that he "looked forward to
reviewing their promising framework."

Obama said he told the senators and the advocacy groups that "my commitment to
comprehensive immigration reform is unwavering, and that I will continue to be
their partner in this important effort."

The immigration issue is an important one for Obama, who has promised to work to
solve the problem. Latinos voted heavily for Obama in the 2008 presidential
election, making the difference in key states like Florida, and their votes will
be critical in the November midterm elections when Obama and his fellow
Democrats will be fighting to maintain control of the House and Senate.

Latino voters who don't think progress is being made on the issue may not go to
the polls.

Graham said he told Obama "in no uncertain terms" that the immigration effort
could stall in Congress if the health care bill, which Republicans oppose, moves
forward under a special process known as budget reconciliation that would limit
the GOP's ability to derail the bill in the Senate.

"Using reconciliation to push health care through will make it much harder for
Congress to come together on a topic as important as immigration," Graham said.

Schumer said he and Graham asked Obama for help building support in the Senate
for an immigration bill, and getting business and labor groups to agree on the
future flow of lower-skilled labor.

Graham said Obama also promised to help resolve outstanding issues pertaining to
"virtual fencing" along the border with Mexico to detect people trying to enter
the United States illegally, and creation of a temporary worker program that is
satisfactory to business.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday

Tens of thousands rally for immigration reform

BYLINE: By Sarah Karush Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 357 words


WASHINGTON   Frustrated with the lack of action to overhaul the country's
immigration system, tens of thousands of demonstrators rallied on the National
Mall and marched through the streets of the capital Sunday, waving U.S. flags
and holding homemade signs in English and Spanish.

Supporters traveled from around the country in hopes the rally would re-energize
Congress to take up the volatile issue. Some lawmakers oppose any attempt to
help an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants become U.S. citizens while
others insist on stronger border controls first.

President Barack Obama, who promised to make overhauling the immigration system
a top priority in his first year, sought to reassure those at the rally with a
video message presented on giant screens at the National Mall. The president
said he was committed to working with Congress this year on a comprehensive bill
to fix a "broken immigration system."

Obama said problems include families being torn apart, employers gaming the
system and police officers struggling to keep communities safe.

The president, whose comments were released as he worked to get last-minute
votes on a health care overhaul, said he would do everything in his power to
forge a bipartisan consensus on immigration reform.

Some demonstrators were disappointed there hasn't been more action a year into
Obama's term.

"I understand it may not all be his (Obama's) fault," said Manuel Bettran, a
21-year-old college student from Chicago. "I am frustrated. I really wish not
just him, but everybody, would take it more seriously. "

Lawmakers failed to agree in 2006 and 2007 when they last tried to overhaul the
immigration system, and the political climate is even tougher now.

Sens. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., released an outline of
a bill last week that calls for illegal immigrants who want to get on the path
to legal status to admit they broke the law by entering the U.S., pay fines and
back taxes, and perform community service. They also would be required to pass
background checks and be proficient in English before working toward legal
residency, required before becoming a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

Ohio Christian convert fights to stay in US

BYLINE: By Matt Leingang Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 516 words


COLUMBUS, Ohio   A teenage girl who converted to Christianity and ran away from
home is being blocked by her Muslim parents from fighting the possibility of
deportation, her attorney told a judge today in an ongoing custody dispute.

Rifqa Bary, 17, who fled home last year and stayed with a Florida minister whom
she met on Facebook, is an illegal immigrant and does not want to be returned to
her native Sri Lanka because she fears being harmed or killed by Muslim
extremists.

Her attorney, Angela Lloyd, asked a judge to sign an order stating that
reunification with her parents is not possible by her 18th birthday in August.

The order would allow Bary, who is in foster care, to apply for special
immigration status without her parents' consent.

Omar Tarazi, an attorney for the parents, objected, telling the judge that he
had been unaware of Bary's separate maneuver to apply to an immigration court.
He said the parents previously filed an immigration application for the whole
family.

Franklin County Juvenile Court Judge Elizabeth Gill declined to issue the order
without first holding a hearing next month. She also declined to remove a gag
order that prevents attorneys from discussing the case publicly.

Bary and her parents, Mohamed and Aysha Bary, have agreed to follow a counseling
plan drawn up by a county child welfare agency to try to resolve the family's
conflict. It requires both sides to work with individual counselors and to try
to attend join counseling.

But a face-to-face meeting remains unlikely any time soon.

Jim Zorn, a children's services attorney, told the judge that Bary continues to
believe that a reconciliation with her parents is impossible. Bary's counselor
has indicated that contact with her parents would be premature, he said.

Bary has also complained that her parents have not responded to an emotional
letter sent to them through a counselor that explains why their relationship
broke down, Lloyd said.

The letter was more like a list of 20 questions that felt like a backdoor
interrogation prepared by attorneys, Tarazi said. It included questions such as,
"Why don't I have happy memories of my childhood?" he said.

The parents want to respond but also want assurances that Bary's attorneys are
not interfering with the process, Tarazi said.

Judge Gill ordered both attorneys to stay away from the counselors.

Bary's case has drawn national attention, especially among bloggers, with
anti-Islam groups warning she could face death and some Muslim groups saying
she's being exploited by outsiders.

The girl ran away last July, saying she couldn't stay with her parents because
she feared for her life for converting to Christianity. Authorities found no
evidence that she faced harm in Ohio.

Police in Columbus continue to investigate whether anyone broke the law by
helping Bary run away.

Bary's father alleges a Columbus minister drove her to a Greyhound station where
she received a bus ticket and took a bus to Orlando, Fla. There, she stayed with
a minister and his wife for about two weeks before the state of Florida took
custody of her and returned her to Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FILE - In this March 2, 2010 file photo, Rifqa Bary listens to the
judge during a hearing to settle disputes between Bary and her parents in
Columbus, Ohio. The family is back in court Monday, April 5, 2010, where a judge
could settle accusations that both sides have made inflammatory comments that
only deepened the rift. (AP Photo/Jay LaPrete, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Obama calls Arizona's immigration bill irresponsible

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; Breaking

LENGTH: 305 words


WASHINGTON (AP)   President Barack Obama criticized Arizona's tough immigration
bill as irresponsible Friday and said his administration is examining whether it
would violate civil rights.

Obama said the federal government must act responsibly to reform national
immigration law   or "open the door to irresponsibility by others."

"That includes, for example, the recent efforts in Arizona, which threaten to
undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as the
trust between police and their communities that is so crucial to keeping us
safe," Obama said.

If signed into law by Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, the legislation would require
police to question people about their immigration status if there's reason to
suspect they're in the country illegally. Civil rights activists say such a law
would lead to racial profiling and deter Hispanics from reporting crimes.

Obama instructed the Justice Department to examine the bill to see if it would
violate civil rights.

Obama spoke at a naturalization ceremony in the Rose Garden for 24 active duty
service members from more than a dozen countries. He commended the new U.S.
citizens for serving a country they could not yet call their own, while
following a legal path to citizenship.

Obama said he will continue to work with lawmakers on Capitol Hill to enact a
comprehensive overhaul of immigration law. He said there are 11 current
Republican senators who have voted for immigration reform in the past.

Brewer, a Republican, has until Saturday to act on the immigration bill sent to
her desk. She can sign, veto or allow it to become law without her signature.

"If we continue to fail to act at a federal level, we will continue to see
misguided efforts opening up around the country," Obama said. "As a nation, as a
people, we can choose a different future."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Editorial: Senate should consider climate change legislation first

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 313 words


It's too bad the Senate can't do two things at once, tackling both immigration
and climate-change legislation this year. Both are crucial.

But if lawmakers must choose, then Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham is right:
Getting a climate and energy bill through the Senate   which could help foster
green-tech growth in Silicon Valley   ought to come first.

The House passed its version last summer, and Graham has been working with Sens.
John Kerry and Joe Lieberman for months to garner bipartisan support, a welcome
departure from the bickering that usually characterizes Washington. They were
set to introduce a bill Monday, until Graham threatened to withdraw his
sponsorship if Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid allowed immigration reform to
cut in line.

Immigration reform is a necessity, and the draconian measure signed last week in
Arizona shows what can happen in the absence of strong, fair federal policy. But
neither House nor Senate lawmakers have completed the groundwork necessary to
bring a bill to the floor. So the only reason to consider the matter now is
political   to help Reid win re-election.

Whether the compromise worked out by Kerry, Graham and Lieberman is the right
one   and whether Graham will come back on board   remains to be seen. Their
package reportedly includes subsidies to gain support from energy interests, and
some environmental groups worry it gives too much to polluters. The Senate and
House versions would need to be reconciled, too.

But because of the work done by Kerry, Lieberman and Graham, there's reason to
believe the Senate can reach agreement on climate legislation. The same can't be
said of immigration. Key players   the president, leaders in the Senate, Silicon
Valley executives who understand how limits on carbon emissions will foster
innovation and job creation   should encourage Reid not to let this opportunity
slip away.



LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

May 3 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 818 words


Arizona a leader on immigration

I say congratulations to Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer and all of those who supported
her difficult decision to sign into law the country's toughest illegal
immigration law. For decades, the federal government has debated the issue while
accomplishing nothing. I am heartened to see a state finally take steps to make
up for the hand-wringing of Washington politicians.

I have nothing against immigration, as long as it's done legally, the way my
grandparents and millions of other Americans entered this country. But if people
are here illegally, then there should be a penalty, and a tough one.

Steve Jursa

San Jose

Schools should join forces to cut costs

It is interesting to read that the local school districts in San Mateo County
are exploring teaming up in response to their fiscal challenges. Why can't Santa
Clara County follow this cause? Do we need 37 separate schools districts with
administrations to deliver good services to students?

Nancy Ramos

Cupertino

Vote yes on Proposition 15

We thank the Mercury News for editorializing favorably on Proposition 15, the
California Fair Elections Act (Editorial, April 1). This measure addresses a
perennial complaint about politicians namely, that they are influenced by
campaign donations. In states with public financing, elected officials have
passed bipartisan, groundbreaking legislation, without fearing retribution from
powerful special interests. Equally important, qualified candidates from all
backgrounds are encouraged to run because they, too, can be elected, not just
those with personal wealth or wealthy donors.

Proposition 15 establishes a voluntary public financing project for California's
secretary of state races in 2014 and 2018. Fees on lobbyists and their firms
will fund the program   no taxpayer dollars go to candidates.

Let elected officials focus on governing, not fundraising. Vote yes on
Proposition 15.

Ginny Lear

Chair League of Women Voters Santa Clara County Council

Article ignored state of Vietnam

Bruce Newman's piece (Page 1A, April 29) on the 35th anniversary of the fall of
South Vietnam was disappointing. He addressed only part of the resulting legacy
of this painful war without ever mentioning the communist country's current
state of affairs, which is very important to more than 3 million Vietnamese
overseas émigrés (100,000 in San Jose). He failed to note that Human Rights
Watch and Amnesty International, highly respected international organizations
that monitor human rights abuse, ranked communist Vietnam among the worse
repressive regimes and violators of human rights. Communist cronies in power
have been transformed from idealistic revolutionaries into red capitalists while
religious leaders and intellectuals languish in prison.

Minh Steven Dovan

San Jose

Layoffs put damper on library milestone

How ironic that on April 24, the San Jose Library chose to publicize a contest
celebrating its upcoming 100 millionth checkout   the very week that layoff
notices began going out to library staff. That same week, 20 of 44 clerks were
notified that they will lose their jobs; 19 of 37 clerical supervisors were told
that they will be demoted or let go. In the next few weeks more than 30 percent
of the remaining people who check in items and put them back on the shelves will
be notified that they will no longer have jobs. Starting in August, branch
libraries are scheduled to be open only three days a week; this wasn't even
mentioned. Perhaps knowing the facts would make it harder to celebrate?

Marcia Rouvell

San Jose

Ballpark would be great for San Jose

George C. Coakley of Los Gatos (Letters, April 27) has it completely wrong when
it comes to a proposed ballpark in downtown San Jose. There is very little
overlap in the Major League Baseball and National Hockey League seasons, and
instances of simultaneous Sharks and A's games would be rare. When events do
occur at the same time, expect a boon in downtown business and transit usage;
we're a big city now! Lastly, the "$72 million for a ballpark" idea being thrown
around is misleading. The Autumn Street project has been in the planning for
more than a decade and would be occurring even without a ballpark. To somehow
lump together the land acquisition/construction costs of the roadway into the
ballpark endeavor is wrong. Baseball stadium bad for downtown? Not even close.

Anthony Dominguez

San Jose

Santa Clara should look after its own

In the Mercury News (Page 1A, April 24), side by side with the California debt,
spelled out for us was the cost of the 49ers stadium. That is where Santa Clara
will be if it builds this trophy. My vote is for maintaining and upgrading the
projects we already have constructed, such as the International Swim Center. The
Swim Center has been on the table for how many years? Let's forget trophy
stadiums and focus on our own backyard.

Doris Modesitt

Past member, Senior Advisory Commission Santa Clara

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Obama: Begin work this year on immigration reform

BYLINE: By Erica Werner Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State

LENGTH: 349 words


WASHINGTON   President Barack Obama said Wednesday that he wants to begin work
this year on legislation overhauling the nation's immigration system, firming up
his commitment on a key priority for Latino voters and lawmakers.

Obama's comments at a Cinco de Mayo celebration at the White House reaffirmed
his long-held support for immigration reform. He went a step further than he has
in the past by calling for the work to begin this year.

Latino groups have been calling for Obama to deliver on his campaign promise of
making immigration reform a top priority, with some activists and lawmakers in
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus complaining he wasn't doing enough.

Obama clouded the issue last week by saying "there may not be an appetite" in
Congress to deal with another hot-button issue immediately after grueling fights
over health care and financial regulation.

There also may not be enough time left on the legislative calendar to take up a
contentious issue with midterm elections looming in November, but by making the
commitment Obama may at least be able to tell Latino groups he tried.

Obama acknowledged that immigration reform would be difficult to achieve and
would require bipartisan support   something that's lacking in the Senate right
now. And he made no commitment to finishing the process this year.

But he said it was the only way to deal with the nation's immigration problems.

"The way to fix our broken immigration system is through common-sense
comprehensive immigration reform," the president said.

"I want to begin work this year and I want Democrats and Republicans to work
with me."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., who's up for re-election in a state
with a growing Latino population, also recently said he wants to tackle an
immigration overhaul this year, although pending energy legislation   another
divisive issue   would likely come first.

Reid last week released draft immigration legislation with Sens. Chuck Schumer,
D-N.Y., and Robert Menendez, D-N.J., that calls for more federal enforcement
agents and other border security-tightening benchmarks.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

Lawyer: U.S. grants asylum to Obama's African aunt

BYLINE: By Meghan Barr Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National; World

LENGTH: 331 words


CLEVELAND   A U.S. immigration court has granted asylum to President Barack
Obama's African aunt, allowing her to stay in the country, her attorneys
announced Monday.

The decision was mailed Friday and comes three months after Kenya native Zeituni
Onyango, the half-sister of Obama's late father, testified at a closed hearing
in Boston, where she arrived in a wheelchair and two doctors testified in
support of her case.

The basis for her asylum request hadn't been made public. People who seek asylum
must show that they face persecution in their homeland on the basis of religion,
race, nationality, political opinion or membership in a social group.

Her lawyer, Margaret Wong of Cleveland, said last year that Onyango first
applied for asylum "due to violence in Kenya." The East African nation is
fractured by cycles of electoral violence every five years.

In a November interview with The Associated Press, Onyango said she was disabled
and was learning to walk again after being paralyzed from Guillain-Barre
syndrome, an autoimmune disorder.

Onyango moved to the United States in 2000. Her first asylum request was
rejected, and she was ordered deported in 2004. But she didn't leave the country
and continued to live in public housing in Boston.

Onyango's status as an illegal immigrant was revealed just days before Obama was
elected in November 2008. Obama said he did not know his aunt was living here
illegally and believes laws covering the situation should be followed.

A judge later agreed to suspend her deportation order and reopen her asylum
case.

Wong has said that Obama wasn't involved in the Boston hearing. The White House
also said it was not helping Onyango with legal fees.

In his memoir, "Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance," Obama
affectionately referred to Onyango as "Auntie Zeituni" and described meeting her
during his 1988 trip to Kenya.

Onyango helped care for the president's half brothers and sister while living
with Barack Obama Sr. in Kenya.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

San Francisco sheriff seeks to opt out of immigration program

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 128 words


SAN FRANCISCO   San Francisco's sheriff is seeking to opt out of a federal
program that uses the fingerprints of arrestees to check their immigration
status.

Sheriff Michael Hennessey sent a letter today to the California attorney general
asking that the state Department of Justice not share the city's fingerprint
data with federal immigration authorities.

San Francisco is scheduled to begin participating in U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement's so-called Secure Communities program on June 1. Under the
program, anyone arrested will have their fingerprints checked against a database
used by ICE.

Hennessey says the program conflicts with a San Francisco policy that requires
law enforcement to report only those born outside the U.S. who are booked for
felonies.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Feds proposing new round of immigration fee hikes

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 119 words


WASHINGTON (AP)   Federal immigration officials are proposing to increase the
fees to apply for legal U.S. residency to nearly $1,100, but would leave
existing citizenship application fees intact.

The Citizenship and Immigration Services has scheduled a news conference later
today to announce the fee increases. It now costs a total of $1,010 to apply for
legal residency and get required fingerprinting, and that cost would rise to
$1,085.

The agency is required by law to review its fees regularly and decide whether
they are covering the cost of doing business.

The CIS had a major fee hike in the summer of 2007, helping to trigger a flood
of citizenship applications that were filed in advance of the increases.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 28, 2010 Monday

Obama, activists to push on immigration reform

BYLINE: By Erica Werner Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 249 words


WASHINGTON   President Barack Obama is enlisting activists and labor leaders in
a push for comprehensive immigration legislation that will showcase Republican
opposition and include a speech by the president.

The strategy was discussed during a meeting Monday by a range of prominent labor
leaders and activist groups. Participants said Obama reiterated his support for
immigration legislation but noted the political realities that have stalled it
in Congress.

Latino leaders say they will work in coming months to pressure Republicans to
give way and support an immigration bill   and make opponents pay at the ballot
box if they don't.

"We're going to make absolutely crystal clear who's at fault here," said Eliseo
Medina, a leader of the Service Employees International Union.

Prospects for passage of comprehensive immigration legislation look bleak this
election year, and even many Democrats are wary of wading into the hot-button
issue. But Obama, who pledged as a candidate to make immigration reform a top
priority during his first year in office, faces pressure from the Latino
community to act.

That's only intensified in the wake of passage of a controversial Arizona law
that requires police officers to question a person's immigration status if
there's reason to suspect the person is in the country illegally. Obama has
spoken out against the law and asked the Justice Department to examine its
legality. Activists anticipate that the Justice Department will sue to overturn
the law.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 17, 2010 Saturday

Man with neo-Nazi ties leading patrols in AZ

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 236 words


PHOENIX   Minutemen groups, a surge in Border Patrol agents, and a tough new
immigration law aren't enough for a reputed neo-Nazi who's now leading a militia
in the Arizona desert.

Jason "J.T." Ready is taking matters into his own hands, declaring war on
"narco-terrorists" and keeping an eye out for illegal immigrants. So far, he
says his patrols have only found a few border crossers who were given water and
handed over to the Border Patrol. Once, they also found a decaying body in a
wash, and alerted authorities.

But local law enforcement are nervous given that Ready's group is heavily armed
and identifies with the National Socialist Movement, an organization that
believes only non-Jewish, white heterosexuals should be American citizens and
that everyone who isn't white should leave the country "peacefully or by force."

"We're not going to sit around and wait for the government anymore," Ready said.
"This is what our Founding Fathers did."

An escalation of civilian border watches have taken root in Arizona in recent
years, and generally, they have not caused problems for law enforcement. But
Ready, who served in the military, is different. He and his friends are
outfitted with military fatigues, body armor and gas masks, and carry assault
rifles.

"These are explicit Nazis," said Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center's
Intelligence Project. "These are people who wear swastikas on their sleeves."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 17, 2010 Saturday

Man with neo-Nazi ties leading patrols in Arizona

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 870 words


PHOENIX   Minutemen groups, a surge in Border Patrol agents, and a tough new
immigration law aren't enough for a reputed neo-Nazi who's now leading a militia
in the Arizona desert.

Jason "J.T." Ready is taking matters into his own hands, declaring war on
"narco-terrorists" and keeping an eye out for illegal immigrants. So far, he
says his patrols have only found a few border crossers who were given water and
handed over to the Border Patrol. Once, they also found a decaying body in a
wash, and alerted authorities.

But local law enforcement are nervous given that Ready's group is heavily armed
and identifies with the National Socialist Movement, an organization that
believes only non-Jewish, white heterosexuals should be American citizens and
that everyone who isn't white should leave the country "peacefully or by force."

"We're not going to sit around and wait for the government anymore," Ready said.
"This is what our founding fathers did."

An escalation of civilian border watches have taken root in Arizona in recent
years, including the Minutemen movement. Various groups patrol the desert on
foot, horseback and in airplanes and report suspicious activity to the Border
Patrol, and generally, they have not caused problems for law enforcement.

But Ready, a 37-year-old ex-Marine, is different. He and his friends are
outfitted with military fatigues, body armor and gas masks, and carry assault
rifles. Ready takes offense at the term "neo-Nazi," but admits he identifies
with the National Socialist Movement.

"These are explicit Nazis," said Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center's
Intelligence Project. "These are people who wear swastikas on their sleeves."

Ready is a reflection of the anger over illegal immigration in Arizona. Gov. Jan
Brewer signed a controversial new immigration law in April, which requires
police, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's immigration status if
officers have a reasonable suspicion that the person is in the country
illegally.

But Brewer hasn't done enough, Ready said, and he's not satisfied with President
Barack Obama's decision to beef up security at the border.

Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu said there haven't been any incidents with the
group as they patrol his jurisdiction, which includes several busy immigrant
smuggling corridors. But Babeu is concerned because an untrained group acting
without the authority of the law could cause "extreme problems," and put
themselves and others in danger.

"I'm not inviting them. And in fact, I'd rather they not come," Babeu said.
"Especially those who espouse hatred or bigotry such as his."

Law enforcement officials said patrols like Ready's could undercut the work of
the thousands of officers on duty every day across the border, especially if
they try to enforce the law themselves in carrying out vigilante justice.

Ready said his group has been patrolling in the desert about 50 miles south of
Phoenix, in an area where a Pinal County Sheriff's deputy reported he was shot
by drug smugglers in April.

Bureau of Land Management rangers met Ready's group during one patrol, and they
weren't violating any laws or looking for a confrontation, said spokesman Dennis
Godfrey.

The patrols have been occurring on public land, and militia members have no real
restrictions on their weaponry because of Arizona's loose gun laws.

The militia is an outgrowth of border watch groups that have been part of the
immigration debate in Arizona. Patrols in the Arizona desert by Minutemen
organizations brought national attention to illegal immigration in 2004 and
2005.

Such groups continue to operate in Arizona, and law enforcement officials
generally don't take issue with them as long as they don't take matters into
their own hands.

Border Patrol spokesman Omar Candelaria said the agency appreciates the extra
eyes and ears but they would prefer actual law enforcement be left to
professionals.

Former Minutemen leader Al Garza recently created the Patriot's Coalition, which
uses scouts and search-and-rescue teams to alert the Border Patrol and provide
first aid to illegal immigrants.

Depending on the availability of volunteers and the scouts' evidence of border
crossers, patrols can vary from several times a week to once a month, Garza
said. The operation is about 500 people, and includes a neighborhood watch
program, legislative advisers and a horseback patrol, he said.

Technology, rather than manpower, is the focus of Glenn Spencer's American
Border Patrol. The group is based at his ranch near the border. The five-man
operation flies three small airplanes to ensure that the Border Patrol is
present and visible along the international line.

Spencer also uses Internet-controlled cameras and works with a group called
Border Invasion Pics, which posts photos of people they suspect are crossing
illegally.

"Sitting out there with a bunch of volunteers looking for people is generally a
tremendous waste of people and time," Spencer said. "And it's also dangerous."

Ready said he's planning patrols throughout the summer.

"If they don't want my people out there, then there's an easy way to send us
home: Secure the border," he said. "We'll put our guns back on the shelf, and
that'll be the end of that."

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday

Tea party activists rally on Arizona-Mexico border

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 219 words


HEREFORD, Ariz. -- Tea party groups converged on a remote section of the
U.S.-Mexico border Sunday to show support for Arizona's controversial
immigration law and hear from more than a dozen conservative speakers, many of
them candidates running for office in crowded Republican primaries.

Several speaking to the crowd of more than 400 demanded Congress and President
Barack Obama devote more resources to increase border security in remote areas
like the site of Sunday's demonstration southeast of Tucson.

"We are going to force them to do it, because if they don't, we will not stop
screaming," said former state Sen. Pam Gorman, one of 10 Republicans vying for
an open congressional seat in north Phoenix.

Obama on Friday signed a bill directing $600 million more to securing the
U.S.-Mexico border -- money that will pay for hiring 1,000 more Border Patrol
agents along with customs agents, communications equipment and expanded use of
unmanned aerial vehicles.

A federal judge last month delayed the most contentious provisions of Arizona's
law.

Sunday, demonstrators drove about four miles on a rutted and rocky dirt road to
reach a remote ranch 70 miles east of Nogales.

The rally was the most recent in a long line of demonstrations staged by
activists on both sides of the debate over Arizona's controversial law.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Gubernatorial candidates spar over immigration, but true power is limited

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1137 words


If history and the campaign platforms of Meg Whitman and Jerry Brown are a
telling guide, the next California governor is unlikely to rock the boat on
immigration policy.

It is not that the candidates do not talk about it: Immigration sparked
impassioned arguments at their face-to-face debates. They voiced sharply
different perspectives about what the government should do about the estimated
2.6 million illegal immigrants living in California. However, most of their
disagreement concerns policies under the purview of the federal government.

"There's a limited amount that a California governor can do when it comes to
immigration," said Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis law school. "The governor
could sort of use the bully pulpit to rile people up or calm people down on
immigration, but as a practical, legal matter, their role is limited."

The federal government regulates who can migrate to the United States, and it is
responsible for enforcing the immigration restrictions set in place.

The policies on which governors traditionally have more authority are at the
margins of the immigration debate, such as whether college students here
illegally should qualify for in-state tuition and financial aid, or whether the
state should use its law enforcement officers to help with border patrol.

Both candidates think that Congress, which has not passed a major immigration
bill in nearly 15 years, should be doing more. Brown, the Democratic candidate,
supports federal reform measures that include a path for undocumented immigrants
to become legal residents and citizens. Whitman, a Republican, opposes
legalization, which she calls amnesty, and wants the federal government to
expand the fence on the U.S.-Mexico border, deploy more manpower to the border
and expand the guest worker program that brings migrants into the state for
seasonal work.

Brown said in a debate that Whitman's positions treat "people from Mexico as
semi-serfs: Work 'em and send 'em back. It's not right." Whitman said illegal
immigrants are a drain on the state and that Brown's lenient views are fiscally
irresponsible.

As the chief executive of the nation's most populous state, the next governor
can have a wide influence over the immigration debate and be an advocate in
lobbying Congress to push forward some kind of immigration overhaul. Will either
candidate, if elected, have the authority to alter the state's own policies
toward immigrants?

"Any California governor has the potential to be rocking the boat. Whether they
actually do or not is another question," said Tomas Jimenez, a Stanford
University sociology professor who studies immigration.

"Immigration is the domain of the federal government, but we've seen in recent
years, particularly in the case of Arizona, there are ways that state
governments, even local governments, can get involved pretty directly in
immigration policy," he said.

States can have an effect on whether immigrants, legal or illegal, want to live
in them, and how those immigrants find opportunities to succeed once they get
there. Some state policies are focused on integrating immigrants through
English-language classes and social services, Jimenez said. Others, such as in
Oklahoma and Arizona, have sought to push out illegal immigrants by denying them
access to jobs or making it easier to arrest and deport them.

California had its own attempt at an illegal immigrant crackdown in 1994, when
voters passed Proposition 187, the "Save Our State" measure that tried to
disqualify illegal immigrants from a K-12 education and other public services. A
federal judge later struck it down in court.

Despite having Prop. 187's champion, former Republican Governor Pete Wilson, as
her campaign manager, Whitman has distanced herself from the measure, saying
Prop. 187 and the Arizona law do not make sense for California. On this, she and
Brown agree.

Both candidates also oppose providing California driver's licenses to immigrants
living here illegally.

Brown has largely avoided making immigration-related proposals, saying the issue
needs to be dealt with at the federal level. Whitman has made several
immigration policies part of her platform, but she has not explained how she
would get past a Democrat-dominated Legislature to make them happen.


     ·    Higher education: Republican candidate Meg Whitman wants to ban the
          admission of undocumented students to California colleges and
          universities. Democrat Jerry Brown says the higher education system is
          "for everyone -- whether they are documented or not. If they went to
          school, they ought to be here." California already allows undocumented
          students admission to state colleges and universities, and it also
          allows them to pay in-state tuition rates. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger
          last month vetoed the California DREAM Act, which would have allowed
          undocumented college students to apply for financial aid. Whitman
          supported the veto and said she would do it again if elected. Brown
          has said the California DREAM Act is "one of the first" he would sign
          after taking care of the budget. E-Verify: Whitman has made an
          "economic fence" against illegal immigration a paramount issue in her
          campaign platform, but her proposal lacks specifics. The federal
          government allows any employer to register workers in a voluntary,
          underutilized database called E-Verify that checks their immigration
          status. Some states have made E-Verify registration mandatory. Whitman
          has questioned the accuracy of the database, but she wants to work
          with the federal government to set up a better program to "keep
          employers honest," according to her website. Her campaign did not
          respond to a question e-mailed last week asking how she would
          establish the system or if she would try to make it mandatory in
          California. Brown, according to a spokesman, considers it a federal
          issue. Sanctuary cities: Should California cities, such as San
          Francisco, Oakland and Richmond, be allowed to declare themselves
          sanctuaries for undocumented immigrants? Whitman said she would seek a
          legislative solution to eliminate sanctuary cities but has not said
          how. Brown promotes Secure Communities, a collaboration between
          federal and local governments that sends immigrant inmates in county
          jails to federal authorities. Workplace inspections: Whitman says on
          her website that she will institute a system "where state and local
          law enforcement agencies conduct inspections of workplaces suspected
          of employing undocumented workers." Offenders will face fines and
          business license suspensions. Her campaign did not respond to a
          question e-mailed last week about how she would implement the program.
          Brown has said that immigration enforcement is the federal
          government's responsibility. "State and local law enforcement agencies
          have plenty of work to do," Brown spokesman Sterling Clifford said.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 12, 2010 Friday

Pelosi intervenes to help student facing deportation

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is intervening to help City College
of San Francisco student Steve Li, whose pending deportation to Peru has
unleashed an outpouring of public support.



A spokesman for the Democratic lawmaker said late Friday that Pelosi is working
with other members of Congress to "recommend that (Immigration and Customs
Enforcement) grant deferred action in this case."

Immigration officials have the discretion to halt a deportation in extraordinary
cases. Li is due to be deported Monday, his attorney has said.

Advocates and friends of Li spent all day Friday writing letters and rallying
outside the San Francisco offices of Sen. Barbara Boxer and other lawmakers.

"Speaker Pelosi believes that Steve Li's case is a textbook example of the
pressing need for comprehensive immigration reform and passage of the DREAM
Act," said spokesman Drew Hammill.

The DREAM Act would give green cards to students, such as Li, who were brought
to the United States at a young age, graduated from high school and enroll in
college.

Immigration agents arrested Li, 20, and his parents Sept. 15, six years after a
judge had ordered the family to leave the country. The student, who wanted to
become a nurse, has spent weeks in a detention facility in Arizona where illegal
immigrants are held before being deported. His parents, who were born in China,
brought Li to the United States when he was 12.

Advocates, while seeking his release, have also tried to prepare for what
happens if Li is flown next week to Peru, where he knows no one.

"He has no suitcase, no clothes, just the clothes on his back the day he was
arrested. No relatives, no friends," said Sin Yen Ling, his lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday

Feds make it clear: Santa Clara County can't opt out of controversial
immigration program

BYLINE: By the Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 386 words


Santa Clara County supervisors may have voted this fall to opt out of a
controversial program that shares booking fingerprints from local jails with
federal immigration officials, but the feds this week sent a message of their
own: No dice.

Confusion has roiled for months about the Secure Communities program, which the
government says has led to the deportation of nearly 47,000 illegal immigrants
nationwide since it was introduced just a year ago.

Although the program is meant to focus on undocumented residents who've been
convicted of murder, rape and other serious crimes, opponents say it's snared
people jailed for low-level offenses such as traffic violations. They also say
it's led to racial profiling and has made immigrants afraid to report other
crimes, such as domestic violence.

Earlier this year, San Francisco County's sheriff sought permission from
Attorney General Jerry Brown to opt out of the program, but Brown -- who at the
time was running for governor -- refused, saying the program ensures public
safety.

After similar protests in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties, as well as in
other states, federal officials appeared to soften. A September memo from the
U.S. Immigration Control and Enforcement said local jurisdictions could request
not to participate.

Federal Homeland Security Chief Janet Napolitano confirmed as much in a letter
to U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who chairs the House Subcommittee on
Immigration.

However, in October -- two weeks after Santa Clara County supervisors instructed
staff to prepare such a request -- ICE reversed course. It declared that while
federal officials would meet with local governments to discuss the issue, in the
end, the agreement is with the states, which collect jail booking data and share
it with Washington, D.C.

On Tuesday, county supervisors learned that both federal and state officials
were turning down the opt-out request.

"It is clear that ICE is not interested in hearing about the program's impact on
communities or engaging with localities in good faith," County Counsel Miguel
Márquez said in a statement.

Márquez cited ICE reports that showed more than 500 people in the county have
been arrested on immigration violations since Secure Communities went into
effect here in May. He said a quarter of them had no criminal record.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday

Deportation of college student halted

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Sen. Dianne Feinstein has joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in
calling for Immigration and Customs Enforcement to halt the deportation of Steve
Li, the 20-year-old student at City College of San Francisco who feared he would
be flown back to Peru this week.

The intervention from the two high-powered Bay Area politicians may halt Li's
deportation, though advocates said Sunday night it is too early to know for
sure.

In a written statement Sunday, Feinstein said she has asked immigration
officials to "halt the deportation proceedings while I consider introducing a
private bill that will allow Mr. Li to remain in the United States on a
temporary basis."

It was a sharp turn of events from two days earlier, when federal immigration
officials in Arizona, where Li is being detained, faxed a latter to say they
were denying a request by Li's lawyer to temporarily suspend the deportation.

The lawyer, Sin Yen Ling, had hoped to delay the deportation proceedings while
Congress considers a bill that would offer a path to citizenship to undocumented
students such as Li.

Feinstein said Li's situation was a prime example of why Congress must pass the
DREAM Act. The legislation would give conditional green cards to young people if
they were brought to the United States illegally at a young age, graduated from
high school and enroll in college or military service.

"It is my hope that Congress will take action on this important legislation
during the next few weeks," Feinstein wrote. "As an original co-sponsor of the
DREAM Act, I believe it would be unjust to deport Mr. Li before we get a chance
to vote on this bill, which would allow students like him to attain U.S.
citizenship."

Pelosi's office has also called Li a "textbook example" of the need for the
DREAM Act. A spokesman said late Friday that the House leader was working with
other members of Congress to recommend that immigration officials defer Li's
deportation.

Li's parents were born in China but moved in the 1980s to Peru, where their son
was born. The parents brought him to the United States from Peru on tourists
visas when he was 12 years old. They applied for political asylum, but a judge
rejected their claim. Li has said he grew up unaware of the legal complications
his family faced.

Immigration agents arrested the family on Sept. 15, and have sought to deport
him to Peru and his parents to China. Because he left Peru so long ago, Li said
he has no family or friends there. He attended middle and high school in San
Francisco and wished to become a nurse.

"By all accounts, Steve Li is a bright young man who was brought to this country
illegally as a child through no fault of his own," Feinstein wrote. "He was
pursuing his education and planning a career in the medical profession until his
arrest and detention."

Advocates were hopeful that Feinstein's pledge to introduce a private bill would
make the difference, but were still not sure about the impact it would have,
since federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials based in Arizona had
already made the decision Friday to go ahead with the deportation.

"The national ICE (office) can always reverse that decision, but it's not a
guarantee. We're very cautious about all the rumors," said Lisa Chen of the
Asian Law Caucus, the organization representing Li.

Private immigration bills are rarely passed, but the mere introduction of one
can cause immigration agents to reconsider a pending deportation.

"We haven't got an official confirmation," Chen said of Feinstein's actions to
halt the deportation. "We'll know the details (Monday)."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 15, 2010 Monday

State Supreme Court upholds immigrant-tuition law

BYLINE: By Matt Krupnick Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 777 words


Undocumented immigrants are eligible for in-state tuition as long as they meet
the same requirements as other resident students at public colleges and
universities, the California Supreme Court ruled Monday.

Overturning an appeals-court decision, the unanimous high court said the state
law in question, implemented in 2001 by Assembly Bill 540, violates neither
state nor federal law. The statute eased residency requirements that allow
Californians to pay significantly less than out-of-state students for the
University of California, California State University and community-college
systems.



Although much of the argument against the state law centered on immigration
policies, justices noted that the Supreme Court does not create those rules or
judge the wisdom of existing laws. Instead, the court judged whether
California's law was consistent with U.S. immigration rules.

"I think the court quite appropriately limited itself to its role," said Ethan
Schulman, a San Francisco attorney who represented UC in the case, Martinez v.
UC Regents. "The university is obviously very pleased with this decision."

The case, filed by a group of out-of-state students paying higher fees at the
three systems, has been watched closely nationwide by supporters and opponents
of the law. The plaintiffs are likely to appeal the decision to the U.S. Supreme
Court, said Redwood City attorney Michael Brady, who represented the group.

Federal law requires colleges and universities to eliminate nonresident tuition
for U.S. citizens if they grant in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants,
Brady said.

"We think the Supreme Court did not properly interpret federal law," he said.
"If you've got a law like California's, well, that directly encourages unlawful
aliens to stay in the state.

"We think it raises a pretty good chance that the United States Supreme Court
will be interested in the case."

The differences between resident and nonresident tuition are significant.

The average full-time, out-of-state UC student pays nearly $23,000 more per year
than a California resident. In the Cal State system, the difference is about
$9,000 per year, and nonresident community-college students pay about $5,000
more per year.

About 42,000 students -- 36,170 of them at the state's 112 community colleges --
took advantage of the residency exemption last year, compared to a total
enrollment of about 3.5 million students. At the universities, a vast majority
of those students are legal U.S. residents, while at least three-quarters at the
community colleges are believed to be undocumented immigrants.

The law at question allows students who otherwise would not meet state residency
requirements to pay in-state tuition if they meet several requirements,
including spending at least three years at and graduating from a California high
school. Undocumented immigrants also must show that they have applied for
citizenship or are planning to do so.

Those rules do not amount to state residency requirements, the court wrote,
which means California's law does not run afoul of federal mandates.

The fact that the ruling was unanimous could persuade the U.S. Supreme Court to
decide against considering the case, said Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis
law school, especially considering the relatively small number of undocumented
immigrants who use the exemption.

"There's no pressing need to review this," Johnson said. "It's hard to
characterize this as a benefit to unlawful immigrants when most people who use
it (at the universities) are not."

Dozens of organizations and people submitted third-party briefs in the
long-running case, which was filed in 2005. Among those was the National
Immigration Law Center, which supports the state law.

"I do expect that this will send a message to other states," said Tanya Broder,
an attorney in the center's Oakland office. "The idea is the states do have the
power to enact these sorts of laws."

The ruling provides stability for current students and will help attract more
students who are eligible for the benefit, said Terri Carbaugh, a spokeswoman
for the state community colleges.

"It makes attaining a college education far more attainable than (it would be)
without the law," she said. "A college education can certainly transform a
life."

Matt Krupnick covers higher education. Contact him at 925-943-8246. Follow him
at Twitter.com/mattkrupnick .

tuition for resident and nonresident students,
fall 2010

University of California:
Residents, $11,285;
nonresidents, $34,164.
California State University*: Residents, $4,230;
nonresidents, $15,390.
Community colleges*:
Residents, $780;
nonresidents, approx. $5,880.

* Based on 30 units per year

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 19, 2010 Friday

San Francisco student to be released from federal custody

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 465 words


Federal immigration officials are releasing San Francisco college student Steve
Li, who was jailed for more than two months as officials sought to deport him to
Peru.

Li, 20, will take an overnight Greyhound bus back to San Francisco after he is
released from an Arizona detention center Friday, said his lawyer, Sin Yen Ling.



He will remain under supervision and must regularly report to immigration
officers once he is back in the city, said Immigration and Customs Enforcement
spokeswoman Virginia Kice.

News of his release came hours after Sen. Dianne Feinstein introduced a private
relief bill in Congress on behalf of Li. The bill, if enacted, would grant Li a
green card allowing him to permanently reside in the United States. Congress
rarely passes such bills, but the mere introduction of the private bill
effectively halted Li's deportation.

"Its amazing. It's extremely rare for a private bill to be introduced," Ling
said. "It's clear she thought this was an important case."

Immigration officers agreed to delay the deportation once Feinstein announced
she was introducing the private bill. The stay remains in effect for 75 days
after the current Congress ends in January.

Ling said an outpouring of public support caused Feinstein to introduce a rare
private bill. Supporters sent between 3,000 and 5,000 letters and e-mail
messages to lawmakers in recent weeks, Ling said.

The City College of San Francisco student was arrested at his home by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on Sept. 15. He was moved from a
California jail to a Florence, Ariz., immigrant detention center in early
October, and has waited there since.

Feinstein said in a statement that it would be unjust to deport Li before
Congress considers the DREAM Act, a bill that would provide a path to
citizenship for people brought to the United States illegally at a young age who
graduate high school and enroll in college or military service. House and Senate
leaders have said they would put the bill up for a vote as a stand-alone measure
after Thanksgiving.

Li's case was complicated by the fact that he was born in Peru, where his
Chinese-born parents had moved in the 1980s. He faced deportation to Peru, where
he has no remaining kin, while his parents face deportation to China. The family
moved to the United States when he was 12 on tourist visas. They applied for
political asylum from China but were denied, and a judge ordered them to leave.
Li has said he grew up unaware of the legal problems his family faced.

In her statement explaining her private bill, Feinstein cited Li's desire to be
a nurse, his good grades in school and his community service work in San
Francisco as reasons he should stay.

Read the full text of Feinstein's statement at the Political Blotter,
www.ibabuzz.com/politics .

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shing Ma (Steve) Li, 20, of San Francisco

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 21, 2010 Sunday

Opinion: Reviving the economy must include immigration reform

BYLINE: By Barbara Boxer Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 589 words


Clearly, too many people across our country are still suffering the effects of
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.

Here are five steps we can take immediately to help create jobs:


     ·    We must ensure that the recently signed Small Business Jobs Act is
          carried out effectively so that small businesses get the credit they
          need to start hiring again.



     ·    We must ensure that California and other states can continue leading
          the way toward a clean-energy future and the thousands of jobs that
          depend on it.



     ·    We must put Californians to work rebuilding our roads, bridges and
          transit systems, which will create thousands of jobs, especially in
          the hard-hit construction industry.



     ·    We must offer incentives for U.S.-based companies to bring home
          billions of dollars sitting offshore from foreign sales, which would
          be a huge economic boost from the private sector.



     ·    And, we must pass comprehensive immigration reform, which is a vital
          economic issue. Our broken immigration system does more than just tear
          apart families, it hurts our economic competitiveness, and it is time
          we fixed it.


Independent studies have shown that comprehensive immigration reform will create
jobs, increase revenues and strengthen our economy. A recent University of
Southern California study estimates that the new direct and indirect spending
could support 25,000 new jobs here in California and bring in $310 million in
additional state income taxes.

Comprehensive reform would boost the U.S. economy as a whole, adding $1.5
trillion to the United States gross domestic product over 10 years, according to
the Center for American Progress. What's more, the higher earning power of newly
legalized workers would result in increased tax revenues of $5 billion in the
first three years.

When immigrants are able to come out of the shadows, their wages increase, they
open bank accounts, buy homes and spend money freely in our communities. And our
industries, from agriculture to high-tech, will benefit when they have a
reliable and skilled work force.

We will help both our agricultural industry and farm workers by creating a fair
and effective guest-worker program that includes a pathway to citizenship for
those who work in agriculture. We can't afford to continue down the current
path, where American growers have moved tens of thousands of acres of
agricultural production to Mexico because of an inadequate labor supply,
resulting in the loss of 20,000 jobs here in America.

Comprehensive reform would also benefit our high-tech industry by helping
companies retain talented science, technology, engineering and math specialists
while also giving those workers labor protections.

And it would give thousands of bright, motivated undocumented students who agree
to go to college or serve in the military a pathway to citizenship.

In the lame-duck session, Congress must provide tax relief for middle class
families and extend unemployment benefits to jobless Americans, which are
critical to our nation's economic recovery. But we can't stop there.

We must begin the work of reforming our immigration system. We must pass AgJobs
now, to improve conditions for workers and help invigorate our agricultural
economy. We must pass the DREAM Act now, to support the bright young minds who
want a college education or to serve our country in the military.

We have no time to waste. Our economy and the future of our country depend on
it.

BARBARA BOXER, a Democrat, was re-elected to the U.S. Senate from California
this month. She wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

Nov. 24 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 849 words


Boxer's immigration reform plan illogical

California and its citizens are buried in debt, and the state has one of the
highest unemployment rates in the nation. The unemployed are both skilled and
unskilled. We are also host to a huge illegal immigrant population. Sen. Barbara
Boxer says the solution to our problems requires immigration reform -- read
amnesty -- and admission of more farmworkers ("Immigration reform crucial to
economic revival," Nov. 21).

So although we're unable to adequately finance our existing educational,
medical, social and public safety costs, we should drastically expand the number
of legitimate claimants to such services and add to our labor force?

It doesn't make sense, except perhaps to a politician.

Robert L. Burns

Santa Cruz

All cargo should be screened at airports

More Transportation Security Administration resources are now being put into
full-body scans and obtrusive pat-downs while 90 percent of the cargo below the
passengers goes unchecked. It doesn't take a genius terrorist to figure out how
to bypass security.

Of course, screening of cargo would be costly and inconvenient for businesses,
so let's give them a pass. Profit takes precedent over customer security and
dignity.

Bob Pedretti

San Jose

Spartans should change conferences

Once upon a time, there was a South Bay team that was the best on the West Coast
-- the 1975-76 San Jose State Spartans. They played exciting ball and many
players went to the NFL. Now we have a Spartan team that is optimistic about the
future because all the top teams in its league are leaving.

Years ago it became evident that many schools would not be able to maintain a
high-caliber football program. Locally, Santa Clara University dropped football,
along with many CSU schools that did so to remain competitive in less costly
sports.

Presently, the Spartans play body-bag football to finance their team. If the
Spartans want to field a team, why don't they consider a conference such as the
Football Championship Subdivision? They will still draw their faithful at home,
and they will be able to compete in other sports.

Richard Caudill

Campbell

Marshals deserve arrest for attack

The U.S. marshals who attacked David Cole should be arrested, pure and simple
("San Jose man says federal agents roughed him up," Nov. 19). They had him
outnumbered 10 to one, and they attacked him without warning. If they thought he
was a fugitive, didn't they have more than enough manpower to simply arrest him?
Was their information so horribly flawed that they could not tell he wasn't the
person they were after before tackling him, when they could discover this fact
after only 10 more minutes?

Is this how the U.S. Marshals Service treats innocent civilians? Would this have
happened if Cole was white? And why aren't our police department and elected
officials doing more to look into this crime against an innocent citizen of San
Jose?

Aerik Sylvan

San Jose

Gates is out of line on teacher bonuses

I was dismayed to read the article "Gates, official: Stop teachers' degree
bonuses" (Nov. 21). How dare Bill Gates ask K-12 districts to stop this merit
pay? Why are they deemed "bonuses"? Does Microsoft not have a differential pay
scale for employees who have a bachelor's or a master's degree?

One more time, people making statements when they have never stepped into a
classroom to see what teachers are up against.

Mehebub Karmali

Math teacher, former engineer Fremont

Republicans guilty of subtle racism

I am tired of white Republicans playing the race card. The latest example is a
letter by Edgar Darwin (Nov. 23) headlined "Obama race is OK; his policies
aren't."

Edgar calls our president a "Fabian Socialist" and a "fascist." What he and
other tea partiers can't see is that those words are racist. Why? If it isn't
about race, and it's only about Obama's policies, then why has the Republican
Party supported the same policies as Obama in the past? When Obama supports the
same exact policies, they run in the opposite direction. It's subtle racism.

Thomas Sutton

San Jose

Obama must stick to progressive agenda

Your Nov. 21 editorial recommending that Obama hire more effective advisers was
well-stated. Most importantly, Obama must stick to a progressive agenda.

Bill Clinton was re-elected to a second term, but he also oversaw relaxation of
international trade with nations that had limited child-labor laws, worker
safety regulations and pollution controls. These were key factors in shipping
U.S. jobs abroad. Then, under Clinton, the Glass-Steagall Act, which separated
commercial and investment banking, was overturned, and the deregulation of
credit default swaps was mandated by law. Both of these laws have been major
contributors to the economic meltdown of 2008.

Obama must remember that bad legislation is worse than none at all. He must
maintain his principles for a more egalitarian and civil nation.

Gary Latshaw

Cupertino

Setting the record straight


     ·    A letter Nov. 16 contained an incorrect address for donations to the
          California State Parks Foundation. They can be sent to 50 Francisco
          St., Suite 110, San Francisco, CA 94133.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday

Australia deports U.S. man convicted in wife's death

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 652 words


LOS ANGELES -- An Alabama man who served 18 months in Australian prison for his
wife's drowning death has returned to the United States where he could face
prosecution for killing her during their 2003 honeymoon on the Great Barrier
Reef, a law enforcement official said.

Gabe Watson, 33, arrived in Los Angeles on Thursday after he was deported on a
commercial flight from the southern Australian city of Melbourne, and
accompanied by two Immigration Department staff and three Queensland state
police officers, Immigration Minister Chris Bowen said.

The law enforcement official, who was not authorized to discuss the case and
requested anonymity, told The Associated Press that Watson was being processed
through customs and he was expected to be turned over to Los Angeles police. A
watch commander for Los Angeles Police Department declined comment.

Watson pleaded guilty last year to the manslaughter of his wife of 11 days,
26-year-old Tina Watson. He had been in immigration custody since completing a
prison sentence earlier this month. Australia, a stanch opponent of capital
punishment, delayed his deportation until it received a pledge from the U.S.
government that it would not seek the death penalty against Watson.

Prosecutors in Alabama, a pro-death penalty state, want to try him again over
his wife's death, and are expected to seek murder charges.

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger issued an extradition order for Watson,
his spokesman Aaron McLear said late Wednesday.

Bowen said Watson returned voluntarily after both Alabama and U.S. federal
authorities guaranteed that he would not face the death penalty.

Watson's lawyer, Adrian Braithwaite, said his client was happy to go.

"He's looking forward to returning home and successfully defending himself if
there's a trial there," Braithwaite told The Associated Press.

Watson was dubbed the "Honeymoon Killer" by the Australian media after his wife
drowned during a 2003 scuba diving trip on the Great Barrier Reef off
Queensland's tropical coast with her husband, an accomplished diver.

In 2008, the Queensland state coroner found there was sufficient evidence to
charge Watson with her death, and he was officially charged with murder a few
months later.

In 2009, Watson -- who had remarried -- traveled to Australia to face trial.

Officials in Queensland state argued he killed his wife by turning off her air
supply and holding her underwater. When Watson pleaded guilty to the lesser
manslaughter charge last year, he was sentenced to 18 months -- a punishment
Tina Watson's family and Alabama authorities slammed as far too lenient.

Queensland Coroner David Glasgow said a possible motive for the killing was Tina
Watson's modest life insurance policy.

Alabama Attorney General Troy King has said he believes Watson devised a plot in
Alabama to kill his wife on their honeymoon, which would give the U.S. state
jurisdiction to charge him. King has argued there are no international standards
on double jeopardy that prevent Alabama from trying Watson again over the death.

Bowen said it was not an issue for Australia whether there was a new
prosecution.

"My role has been to ensure that we fulfill our treaty obligations, we've done
that," Bowen told reporters in Canberra. "Double jeopardy is not covered by our
treaty obligations."

"There is various speculation about what Mr. Watson may or may not be charged
with -- I've seen some speculation that they would be different charges to what
he's been charged with in Australia -- but that is not a matter the Australian
government has a role in," he said.

Under Australia's Extradition Act, a person cannot be deported to face
prosecution on a capital charge unless there is an assurance the death penalty
will not be imposed.

------

Associated Press writers Jacob Adelman in Los Angeles, and Tanalee Smith in
Adelaide, Australia, and Rod McGuirk in Canberra, Australia, contributed to this
report.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday

Dream Act's evolving outline creates confusion

BYLINE: By Michael Doyle McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National

LENGTH: 699 words


WASHINGTON -- Congressional Democrats are rewriting immigration policy on the
fly, in a legalization effort whose long-term consequences remain unclear.

An estimated 2 million illegal immigrants could gain legal status, and
eventually U.S. citizenship, under what's called the Dream Act. But even
lawmakers and advocates are still coming to terms with the bill now chugging
toward an uncertain destination.

"There's been a lot of confusion about what the Dream Act does and doesn't do,"
noted Michelle Mittelstadt, a spokeswoman for the nonpartisan Migration Policy
Institute.

This week, the Senate likely will take up the immigration bill again. Its fate
could rest with lawmakers such as retiring Republican Sen. Sam Brownback, now
the governor-elect of Kansas and a past supporter who missed last week's vote.

Privately, even supporters acknowledge their difficulties. Failure could poison
future immigration reform negotiations, some fear, as the bill loses its old
bipartisan glow.

"This is nothing more than a political game by the Democrats to try and drive a
wedge between the Hispanic community and Republicans," said Republican Sen.
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a past supporter.

If the bill does pass, the implications would touch some states more than
others.

The bill covers roughly half a million California residents who entered the U.S.
illegally when they were under age 16, according to a Migration Policy Institute
study.

The House approved the bill Wednesday by a 216-198 margin. Even so, the measure
kept evolving until the last minute, and not always in ways congenial to
immigrants.

The current Development Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act would allow
illegal immigrants under age 30 to attain temporary legal status if they have
graduated from high school or earned a GED.

An earlier version covered illegal immigrants under age 35. The original bill
set no age limit at all. All versions of the bill cover those who entered the
U.S. prior to turning 16.

These immigrants could secure longer-term legal status if they serve in the U.S.
military or complete at least two years of a community college or undergraduate
program.

"They didn't possess the intention to commit a crime or to cross the border
illegally. They were brought here," argued bill author Rep. Howard Berman, D-Van
Nuys. "This is a universe of people who deserve special consideration because
the absence of wrongdoing is so clear."

The immigrants would be eligible for certain federal student loans, but not for
federal Pell grants, food stamps or Medicaid.

The latest version assesses application fees that could total $2,525. Earlier
versions omitted such fees.

Earlier versions granted states the option of allowing illegal immigrants to
receive the same in-state tuition breaks given to other students. The latest
version of the bill drops this provision.

Last month, the California Supreme Court ruled the state could grant illegal
immigrants the lower in-state tuition rate, but that ruling only affected
California.

Although some 2 million illegal immigrants could be eligible for legalization
nationwide, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that roughly 700,000 might
meet all the requirements to attain legal status through the year 2020.

According to the Migration Policy Institute analysis, 84 percent of the eligible
population comes from Mexico or other Latin American countries. The long-term
costs and consequences remain uncertain, in part, because of how the bill popped
up at the end of the 111th Congress.

Past Congresses have conducted hearings on similar bills, the first version of
which was introduced in 2001. However, neither the House nor Senate judiciary
committees approved it in this Congress, and neither committee held hearings
focused on the bill in this Congress.

The latest bill language became publicly available only several hours before the
House approved it, with no amendments allowed.

"Once again," complained Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, the incoming Republican
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, "we are considering a bill that
members have not had adequate time to review, that has not gone through the
proper committee process, and that we cannot amend."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

Dream Act fails in Senate `

BYLINE: By Lisa Mascaro and James Oliphant Tribune Washington Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; National; State; World

LENGTH: 322 words


WASHINGTON -- A last-ditch Democratic effort to establish a path to citizenship
for some children of undocumented immigrants failed in the Senate on Saturday,
likely derailing any attempt at sweeping immigration reform in Congress for the
foreseeable future.

The bill, known as the Dream Act, had passed the House, and its advocates and
Democratic sponsors hoped that they could muster enough Republican votes to
bring the legislation to the floor. Instead, it fell victim to a GOP filibuster,
one in which a handful of Democrats also blocked the bill. The final tally was
55-41.

Dozens of young activists crowded the galleries above the Senate floor in
support of the bill, many wearing college graduation mortarboards. Some held
hands as senators cast their votes.

In a statement after the vote, President Barack Obama called the result
"incredibly disappointing."

The act would have allowed those brought to this country before age 16 to attain
legal residency and perhaps eventually citizenship if they lived here more than
five years and attended college or served in the military. Opponents derided it
as a form of amnesty. Experts said that about 1.2 million immigrants would have
taken advantage of the legislation.

Some form of the legislation, known formally as the Development, Relief and
Education for Alien Minors Act, has existed on Capitol Hill for a decade, but
Democratic leaders viewed this vote as a last, best attempt to pass it before
Republicans take control of the House next month and gain additional seats in
the Senate.

The vote brought the curtain down on a two-year drama in which the Obama
administration and Senate Democrats have assured activists that immigration
reform was a top priority, only to see it fail to gain any real legislative
momentum. For proponents, the road will only grow harder, as public sentiment
against illegal immigration has hardened and fewer Republicans support a policy
overhaul.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday

Students look to 2012 after immigration bill fails

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 952 words


LOS ANGELES -- Emboldened by months of phone calls to lawmakers, hunger strikes
and sit-ins, a group of college students and graduates in Los Angeles say they
plan to take their fight for immigrant rights to the states and the 2012
election after Senate Republicans blocked a key piece of legislation.

But it won't be easy.

The Senate vote Saturday to toss the proposal that would have granted young
illegal immigrants a route to legal status dealt a harsh blow to student
activists who will face an even steeper uphill battle in the next Congress.

Immigrants see rough times ahead in the next two years, with many Republicans
vowing to push for tougher immigration enforcement, but they also say Latino
voters are getting fed up with lawmakers at a time when they are accruing
greater political clout.

"This is a movement," said Nancy Meza, a 23-year-old illegal immigrant and
college graduate who wore a UCLA sweatshirt as she watched the televised vote.
"We don't have lobbyists and paid staff. It's a movement by students."

In the hours after the vote, Meza and about 50 other student activists who had
gathered at the UCLA Downtown Labor Center said they would remind Latinos who
stood by them -- and those who did not -- in the next election cycle. They will
push for access to financial aid and drivers' licenses in states more friendly
to immigrants such as California.

Few said the legislation, many called the Dream Act, had a chance in the next
two years with Republicans taking control of the House of Representatives and a
shrinking Democratic majority in the Senate. But they said that wouldn't derail
the networks they had set up across the country to support illegal immigrant
students and help them reveal their status and learn to live unafraid.

Some at the UCLA center, including university student Leslie Perez, 22, wept as
they watched the vote on a big screen.

Minutes after it was over, many donned jackets and umbrellas to take to the
rainy streets of Los Angeles, chanting "undocumented and unafraid."

Republicans might consider some kind of measure to help the students, but it
would probably be much narrower, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates stricter limits on immigration.

"This has a real demoralizing effect," Krikorian said of the student activists.
"There's only so long you can keep up these hunger strikes and all this
political theater they've been engaging in, especially if there's no specific
target."

Another challenge is students could wind up feeling excluded when they can't
work after graduation, despite their political activism.

"It may alienate the group we most want to incorporate," said Louis DeSipio, a
professor of political science at UC  Irvine.

Immigrant rights groups said they planned to turn up the pressure on the Obama
administration to slow deportations, end local police enforcement of immigration
laws and look out for the students, many of whom publicly revealed their
immigration status over the last few months.

Students also said they planned to fight for immigrant benefits -- though it's
not legalization -- locally as they've seen anti-illegal immigration activists
do to pass tougher enforcement measures in states such as Arizona.

"They're winning by state, they're winning by region," said Cyndi Bendezu, a
25-year-old UCLA graduate who was brought to the United States from Peru when
she was 4 years old. "We have to win smaller victories."

Bendezu, who had been an illegal immigrant when she started college, attained
legal residency through a relative's petition. Now, she said she can't wait to
become a citizen to be able to vote.

Students said Saturday that momentum they had gained in recent months was bigger
than the legislative defeat.

The legislation would have provided a route to legal status for immigrants who
were brought to the United States before age 16, have lived in the country for
five years, graduated from high school or gained an equivalency degree and who
joined the military or attend college.

It targeted the most sympathetic of the 10 million to 12 million illegal
immigrants living in the United States -- those brought to the country as
children, and who in many cases consider themselves American, speak English and
have no ties to their native countries.

Critics of the bill called it a backdoor to amnesty that would encourage more
foreigners to sneak into the United States in hopes of being legalized
eventually.

The Mexican-born Meza said the vote makes it harder for her to finance graduate
school to get a doctorate in education policy and become a professor.

But Meza, who came to the country when she was 2, said she'll find a way -- just
as she did baby-sitting, tutoring and waiting tables to pay for college even
though her degree now lies covered in dust in her living room, unused.

"It's not going to stop my educational goals," she said.

The legislation was proposed almost a decade ago. But it got its closest shot at
getting passed this year after students stepped up their activism by making
thousands of calls to lawmakers and leading marches and demonstrations. Several
activists were arrested for refusing to leave Arizona Sen. John McCain's office.

The House of Representatives passed the measure earlier this month, but the
Senate fell five votes short of the 60 needed to win its enactment.

Now, immigrant advocates who had touted the bill as a first push toward a
broader legalization of immigrants will be working to deflect anticipated
efforts by Republicans to ramp up restrictions on immigration.

"All of us are definitely preparing for much more defensive work," said
Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 15, 2009 Tuesday

Immigration reform bill introduced in Congress

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 481 words


Congress still hasn't passed health care reform, but the next white-hot issue
has already dropped into its lap   immigration reform.

For the first time in two years, a measure billed as "comprehensive immigration
reform" has been introduced in Congress.

The bill   HR 4321   filed Tuesday by Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., incorporates
most of the provisions of a measure introduced in June by Rep. Mike Honda,
D-Campbell.

At last count Tuesday night, it had 89 co-sponsors.

Honda's bill focused on legal immigration issues such as eliminating visa
backlogs and giving green-card holders the same rights as citizens to bring
their spouses and children to the U.S. But Gutierrez's bill is much more
sweeping. It includes a provision that would allow the country's 12 million
illegal immigrants to legalize by paying a $500 fine, learning English and
passing a criminal-background check.

It would also require employers to check a federal database to verify the
immigration status of job applicants.

In 2007, the last time Congress grappled with the issue, a bipartisan Senate
bill sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and the late Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., failed when Republicans blocked votes over the amnesty issue.

But Democrats think immigration reform has a better shot this time around.

"Now, we have the White House," Honda said Tuesday. "And now we have leadership
in both houses that want to see it happen."

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco, says she will let the Senate take
up the issue first after Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., files his version of the
immigration reform bill after the holiday break.

Groups that favor decreased immigration were quick to pounce on the legislation.

"It certainly has everything in there for every special-interest group   from
amnesty for illegal aliens at the bargain-basement price of 500 bucks, to
increased family-based immigration, to increased employment-based immigration,"
said Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

But Silicon Valley activists on Tuesday held a news conference on the steps of
the federal building in downtown San Jose to hail the measure.

One speaker, 20-year-old Mayra Salvador of San Jose, broke down in tears as she
explained how her undocumented status has prevented her from visiting her dying
grandmother in Mexico.

A student at Evergreen Valley College who left Mexico with her parents at age 5,
Salvador said that unless she is given legal status she will not be able to get
a job or financial aid to continue her education.

"Although I was not born in this country, I feel that I am from here," Salvador
said. "I grew up here and learned everything that I know. Here is where I first
learned to read and write. Here is where I have been given the opportunity to
become someone by graduating from high school and attending college."

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 20, 2009 Sunday

Sides forming in next immigration-reform push

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1117 words


SAN FRANCISCO " The prospect of millions of illegal immigrants earning a path to
citizenship is now back on the table in Congress, though the first bill out of
the chute has already split some California progressives and has zero support
from Republicans.



Bay Area immigrant families and their allies rallied Friday at a San Francisco
high school to promote legalization and other measures that would overhaul U.S.
immigration policy, which has not substantially changed for more than a decade.

They were united in favor of a humanitarian approach to reforming immigration
policy, though disagreed on the finer details of a 650-page reform bill
introduced last week by 92 liberal Democratic lawmakers, including four from the
Bay Area.

At its crux, the bill introduced by Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., would allow
people living in the U.S. without legal documents to pay a $500 fee and show
they made contributions to the U.S. through work, school, volunteering or
military service. After six years on a conditional visa, those who qualify can
get a green card and eventually obtain citizenship.

The bill is designed in part to put pressure on President Barack Obama, who has
pledged to take on immigration reform next year and has advocated an overhaul
that would include a path to citizenship. Opponents have characterized the bill
as permissive and doomed to fail.

That is a longer process than the last time the United States legalized
immigrants in 1986, a move that then-President Ronald Reagan asserted would
"improve the lives of a class of individuals who now must hide in the shadows,
without access to many of the benefits of a free and open society."

This time, however, there are millions more immigrants living in the country
illegally, rising populist anger over joblessness and demographic change, and a
belief among the inheritors of Reagan"s conservative movement that amnesty for
lawbreaking only encourages more.

"This is cynical legislation because there"s no chance this is going to get
passed," said Novato resident Rick Oltman of Californians for Population
Stabilization. "Given all the difficulties they"re having right now with the
health care bill, and with the president"s popularity falling in the polls,
there"s no chance they"re going to pass this because it has no support from the
American people."

The bill would also include enforcement provisions, though conservatives say not
nearly enough. Immigrant advocates, in turn, say it is too focused on
enforcement.

"It continues to treat immigration as a national security issue and stops short
of doing away with some of the biggest problems in our current immigration
system," said Colin Rajah of the Oakland-based National Network for Immigrant
and Refugee Rights.

In promoting the bill, Gutierrez wrote in the Huffington Post that "it legalizes
five percent of the workforce; it eliminates the guesswork in hiring through a
smart and dependable employment verification system; and it eradicates the need
for localities to take matters into their own hands by requiring businesses and
landlords to check IDs of their clients and tenants."

What the measure is missing, so far, is support from key House Democrats who
would have to negotiate a workable immigration bill next year with conservative
Democrats and Republicans. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco, has
indicated she would rather have the Senate move first on immigration, while
House immigration leader Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, has not made any comment
on Gutierrez"s plan.

Seventeen of the 34 Democrats in California"s congressional delegation have
co-sponsored the bill, including Bay Area lawmakers Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell;
Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland; Rep. Pete Stark, D-Fremont; and Rep. Lynn Woolsey,
D-Petaluma.

Not listed as a sponsor was Rep. George Miller, D-Martinez, but he said in a
statement that introducing the bill "represents a positive step forward in the
debate to fix our nation"s broken immigration system." Miller said he was
pleased the bill includes legislation he introduced to end abuses of foreign
guest workers by putting more restrictions on the employers who hire them.

Rep. John Garamendi, D-Walnut Grove, was still reviewing the bill, but aides
said he supports comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship.
Rep. Jerry McNerney, D-Pleasanton, had no comment.

Immigrant advocates hope the bill, even if it is unlikely to pass in its current
form, sets a pro-immigrant tone early in the debate and puts the onus on Obama
to make it a priority. Young immigrants and the U.S.-born children of
unauthorized immigrants expressed a sense of urgency at the Friday evening rally
at Mission High School.

"I am doing this to help my mom and my sister and my family and other
undocumented students who are suffering," said a 20-year-old Oakland college
student who did not want to give his name because he fears deportation.

The family arrived from South Korea when he was 12, and the student said he did
not know he was here on an expired visa until he began applying for schools and
a driver"s license as a high school senior. An act of Congress, he said, is his
chance to stay.

"Two million undocumented immigrants are Asian, and I"m one of them," he said.
"It"s really crucial to me for this bill to be passed. This is the only thing
I"m relying on, depending on."

Though many advocates disagreed over various parts the bill, they put aside some
of those quarrels to counter what is likely to be a bigger obstacle: The
conventional wisdom that high unemployment in California and across the country
makes the bill or anything like it politically untenable.

"The problem is not immigrants. The problem is poverty, trade agreements that
increase that poverty, the criminalization of work," said East Bay immigrant
rights activist and author David Bacon. "No immigrants shut down the NUMMI plant
(in Fremont). The economic problems we have in this country are not the fault of
immigrants."


     ·    Grants conditional nonimmigrant visas to undocumented immigrants who
          have made "contributions" to the U.S. through employment, education,
          military service or other community service. The visas would be issued
          for an application fee and a $500 fine. Allows those brought to the
          U.S. before age 16 to also qualify for the visas, although the fines
          would be waived. Individual states would decide if undocumented
          students could pay in-state tuition rates at local colleges. Creates
          an employment verification system to ensure all new hires are legally
          able to work in the U.S. Enhances border security and immigration
          enforcement. Expands restrictions on employers who recruit legal
          temporary workers.


Source: Immigration Policy Center

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Pelosi's immigration reform tactics tacky

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 711 words


SAN DIEGO   Just in time for Christmas, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has given
Latino voters a valuable gift: clarity.

So much of politics is masked in smoke and mirrors. If you convince Latino
constituents that the other party is out to get them, you'll become their BAF
best amigo forever. And so it is that most Latinos I know have been led to
believe that on immigration reform, Republicans are inherently bad and Democrats
are intrinsically good. And, they tell me, any day now, President Barack Obama
and congressional Democrats will discover their backbones and deliver what
they've promised when pandering to Hispanic groups: comprehensive immigration
reform that allows illegal immigrants to work their way to legal status, even if
it means jumping through more hoops than Ringling Bros.

How gullible can you get? Democrats only care about one thing, and it's the same
thing that Republicans care about: re-election. And any controversial issue that
might get in the way   gay marriage, "don't ask, don't tell," and, yes, illegal
immigration   usually gets shoved far back in the cupboard.

Still, who am I to tell my fellow Latinos that there's no Santa Claus? I figured
I'd let things play out, and they'd learn soon enough that the Democrats were
getting ready to sell them out.

Now Pelosi, D-San Francisco, has tipped her hand. Last week, according to the
Capitol Hill newspaper The Hill, she privately assured fellow representatives
not to worry about having to address immigration reform and other controversial
issues until the Senate acts first. Concerned that voters will react negatively
to a proposal to legalize millions of illegal immigrants, Pelosi is promising to
protect vulnerable members' seats.

Actually, change that to "protect Pelosi's job." After all, if Democrats lose
the majority in the 2010 election, she'll lose her speakership. No more flights
on government planes. Once reduced to backbencher, Pelosi might have to do the
unthinkable   fly commercial.

And what's this nonsense about waiting for the Senate to act? You might think
this is about seeking cover from the upper chamber. Not so. If House Democrats
feel vulnerable and think that the immigration debate could cost them support
back home, then they're going to avoid it like H1N1 whether the Senate has taken
action or not.

What Pelosi is counting on is that by passing the buck to "the world's greatest
deliberative body," the deliberation will turn into dithering, delay and
derailment. Then the House can skirt the issue that Rahm Emanuel, former Pelosi
lieutenant and current White House chief of staff, has called "the third rail of
American politics." You touch it, you die.

Pelosi is throwing cold water on the prospects for immigration reform just as
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., has introduced an immigration bill that, while not
perfect, at least starts the conversation. As Gutierrez was trying to get the
legislation on its feet, Pelosi cut it off at the knees. That's not a good look.

The Hill quoted Rep. Gerry Connolly, D-Va., president of the freshman class of
representatives, as being in agreement with Pelosi's abdication of leadership.
Connolly said that "freshmen, particularly, are not enamored of the idea of
being asked to walk the plank" on a controversial issue such as immigration
reform.

That freshman had better bone up on his studies before midterms. What Connolly
calls walking the plank, I call Democrats having to walk it like they talk it.
And if they don't have the courage to do this, at least stop trying to throw
Latinos off the scent by making it seem as if the powerless and hapless GOP is
to blame for derailing comprehensive immigration reform. It isn't. Not this
time. This debacle is on the Democrats.

In fact, here's my theory: The real reason Democrats are stalling is because, on
this hot-button issue, they're not comfortable being in power. They know they're
destined to lose seats in Congress in next year's elections.

And when they do, and a few prominent Republicans become the new faces of the
opposition, Democrats will accuse them of killing immigration reform.

It's brilliant and cynical and slimy. But it only works if Latinos get lost in
the smoke and mirrors.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday

Commentary: Tide seems to be turning in favor of immigration reform

BYLINE: By Mike Honda and Sonia Manzano, for Sunnyvale Sun Cupertino Courier

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 890 words


The tide seems to be turning in favor of comprehensive immigration reform,
despite populist trends that might suggest otherwise. President Barack Obama's
ability in 2010 to hammer out reform has been helped by some unusual suspects.
Democrats, already on board the reform bandwagon, are even seeing some
conservatives rally for similar reform measures. These new voices, along with
recent polling that puts the majority of the American public in favor of a
legalization process for our 12 million undocumented immigrants, bodes well for
a nation in desperate need of a new immigration policy. This president, unlike
his predecessor, will not shy away from needed reform as it is the right thing
to do economically, the right thing to do politically and the right thing to do
morally.

In the throes of America's recession, Obama must do everything in his power to
weigh the fiscal pros and cons of any policy decision. Immigration,
unsurprisingly, brings with it formidable fiscal implications. Keeping
immigrants here or sending them home can save or cost taxpayers dearly,
depending on what course is chosen.

A study conducted last month by UCLA professor Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, for example,
finds that any deportation plan of America's undocumented immigrants would cost
our country's gross domestic product a whopping $2.6 trillion over the next 10
years. Conversely, if we embrace comprehensive immigration reform, we add $1.5
trillion to the U.S. gross domestic product over the next 10 years.
Hinojosa-Ojeda also projected that the economy would benefit from a temporary
worker program, which would raise the GDP by $792 billion.

The economic case is clear. Immigrants who become citizens consistently pursue
higher-paying jobs and higher education, spend more and provide higher tax
revenue. Just imagine what 12 million newly documented Americans could do for
the economy. The legalization process also brings economic benefits such as the
retention of remittances. Reform will reunite families separated by our
immigration system and keep monies in the U.S., instead of having workers send
substantial portions of their salary to their family members abroad. As an
example of the potential, U.S. remittances to Latin America alone totaled almost
$46 billion in 2008. Of that, Mexico received almost $24 billion. Reducing
remittances offers an obvious potential cash infusion for our economy, as
billions of dollars currently being sent overseas would instead be spent in
American shops and restaurants, creating jobs and helping to get our economy
going.

Politically, reform is the right thing to do, which may explain why immigration
reform is a bipartisan issue, visible in former President George W. Bush's
reform attempts and more recently Sarah Palin's politically savvy promises. The
communities most affected by comprehensive immigration reform   Hispanic, Asian
and African   are quickly becoming the voting majority in many districts
throughout this country. By 2050, Hispanic-Americans are projected to constitute
25 percent of the total population, making Hispanics the largest population
group. The fastest growing race group will continue to be Asian and Pacific
Islanders, with annual growth rates exceeding 4 percent and increasing to 41
million total population by 2050.

The politics of immigration reform, then, must reflect the ever-changing
politics of our population. As America becomes ever more diverse, elected
officials will rightly move policies in a direction to serve that diverse
constituency. Diversification will happen, and we can be on the right side of
history or we can ignore its eventuality and muck things up for the next
generation by failing to act early enough. Obama gets this so too does much of
the country. The noise of a few angry opponents, therefore, must not get in the
way of what's good for the majority.

Lastly, there is moral merit to remembering that we are indeed a nation of
immigrants. Long before the spotlight fell on Mexican immigrants as the primary
newcomer and scapegoat, it fell heavily on Jewish, Irish, Chinese and myriad
other ethnic groups, each one taking their turn. For centuries, America sounded
the clarion call to the "huddled masses yearning to breathe free," welcoming
them to our shores. Comprehensive immigration reform will not widen or
overextend this welcome; it will ensure a fair and legal process for this
tradition to nobly continue.

The key to keeping intact the Statue of Liberty's credo, then, is to allow new
Americans, from Central America to Central Asia, the same rights and
opportunities afforded the new Americans who landed on Ellis Island from Central
Europe. Entire families once emigrated from Europe; it is only fair to allow
others  who often wait up to 20 years to be reunited with their loved ones the
same treatment.

This is the year for comprehensive immigration reform. Left to future presidents
or future Congresses, the number of undocumented immigrants will only increase
and the visa waits will only get longer. Meanwhile, we lose an opportunity to do
what's right economically, politically and morally. On all accounts the case is
clear: Reform now.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda (D-Calif.) is chairman of the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus. Sonia Manzano is an author and actor best known for her role as
Maria on "Sesame Street."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

No chance of immigration reform this year

BYLINE: By thomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 783 words


Every poll shows there are few things California's burgeoning Latino community
wants more from government this year than immigration reform that includes a
path to citizenship for persons now in this country illegally, also known as
amnesty.

But despite happy talk from President Obama and some other leading Democrats,
chances of this happening are very slim.

For Democrats who now possess large but shaky majorities in both the U.S. Senate
and House are not nearly as united on this cause as they are on health care
and their brand of unity on that cause has produced nothing close to what Obama
promised as a candidate in 2008. There is no publicly run health insurance
option on the table. The proposed requirement that all citizens must have health
insurance has all but disappeared, and more.

If Democrats who once appeared united on health care reform can't even pass a
truncated version of that, there's not much chance they will produce an
immigration amnesty no matter what their leaders might say. For there's nothing
even approaching unity on immigration reform. That's because politicians of all
stripes well know that no matter how many requirements and fines they might
impose on illegal immigrants seeking permanent legal status, there will be
strong opposition back home.

Why would Democrats bother keeping on talking about various combinations of
immigration amnesty and tougher border and employment enforcement when they know
it won't pass?

Chances are it's because they've been promising reform (amnesty) to Hispanic
voters so long and have reaped so many Latino votes in the process that any
verbal backing off risks alienating much of this increasingly important voter
bloc.

Some call it pandering, but Democrats lack the votes to prevent a Senate
filibuster on any immigration reform plan that involves amnesty, even with a
different name.

So we see House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco carefully saying her
chamber will likely wait until after the Senate acts on immigration before
making any moves of its own. The odds of the Senate acting first are somewhere
between slim and none; all the prominent immigration proposals of the past few
months have emanated from the House.

Meanwhile, many first-term House Democrats elected in the 2008 Obama sweep fear
a strong voter backlash if they OK amnesty. They and their frequent Republican
jousting partners are alike in one important way: Most care more about their own
re-election chances than virtually any other cause.

That's why Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, quickly signed off on Pelosi's plan to let the
Senate act first and prove it can "get something done."

Don't expect Obama to push Congress on this even as hard as he did on health
care, where he's often criticized from the left for not being strong enough.
Obama's top aide, former Illinois Congressman Rahn Emanuel, once called
immigration "the third rail of American politics." So the White House knows this
is a toxic issue and will understand when Democrats run from it in an election
year.

And they will. Not just members of the House. Senators like Colorado's appointed
Michael Bennet, who faces his first election campaign this year, will be
understandably leery of the issue that made Tom Tancredo, a longtime Colorado
congressman, into a national figure and a presidential candidate.

Obama, meanwhile, nominally backs a plan written by Illinois Rep. Luis
Gutierrez, the House Hispanic caucus chairman who knows the president well from
their days in Chicago politics. This one calls for much tougher enforcement
efforts, criminal background checks for current illegals wanting to stay, a
six-year wait for permanent legal status. It's similar to the plan pursued
unsuccessfully several times by Arizona Sen. John McCain, the 2008 Republican
nominee for president.

Noting that 10 million Hispanic voters turned out in 2008, the vast majority
going for Obama, amnesty advocate Frank Sharry, head of a group called America's
Voice, threatens that "a lot of those voters won't turn out in the mid-term
elections" in swing states like Colorado, Nevada and Florida unless there is an
amnesty of some kind.

That vague threat carries less clout with most members of Congress than the
letters they get from angry constituents   and two polls late last year found
that about 60 percent of U.S. citizens oppose any form of legalization for
illegal immigrants.

All of which means Gutierrez and others who insist there will be immigration
reform this year are whistling past the graveyard. It won't happen.

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. E-mail
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Pedigo: Time for immigration reform is now

BYLINE: By the Rev. Jon Pedigo Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 675 words


As our national political debate remains focused on the essential task of
reforming health care, thousands will gather on the National Mall in Washington,
D.C., this weekend for a rally and interfaith service calling attention to an
immigration system that tears families apart and betrays American values.

Along with parishioners from St. Julie Billiart and PACT leaders from San Jose,
I will join other Catholics from our diocese and churches across California as
we march, pray and stand in solidarity with immigrants in the shadows of the
Lincoln Memorial. We will join Christians, Jews and Muslims across the country
bearing witness to the hopeful stories and heartbreaking struggles of those
often demonized by hateful rhetoric and urge Congress to pass comprehensive
immigration reform.

At a time of economic crisis, partisan gridlock and looming midterm elections,
many in Washington would rather put off this challenge for another day. But now
is the time for political courage and a commitment to the common good. Opponents
of immigration reform often use fear and play loose with the facts in making the
case that comprehensive reform is simply giving amnesty to those who broke the
law. In fact, practical and humane immigration reform offers a realistic
solution to complex challenges.

An enforcement strategy alone can't address the reality of an estimated 12
million undocumented immigrants already in the country. An earned legalization
program with a path to citizenship is not a handout. It would require
undocumented immigrants to work, take English classes and pay fines.

A sensible and pragmatic approach would also crack down on employers who hire
undocumented immigrants, provide reasonable safety protections for workers, and
acknowledge that employers and U.S. consumers benefit from the labor of
undocumented workers even as immigrants themselves have no protection from
exploitation.

Comprehensive reform will also make sure that families are not separated in
deportation raids or forced to wait years before they reunite with parents and
children. The National Council of La Raza and the Urban Institute have reported
that nearly two-thirds of children split up from their parents in raids are U.S.
citizens.

Over the past several decades, the federal government has poured billions into
beefing up border security. Migrants have responded by finding new and more
dangerous routes through the Arizona desert. There is no wall high enough to
deter the dreams of those seeking a better life.

All nations have a right to control flows of immigration. But addressing the
realities of global migration and the root causes of why so many risk death to
come here requires more than tough talk from politicians or cowboy justice of
local sheriffs. It demands pragmatic solutions that reject false choices. We can
be a nation of laws and safeguard our values. We can protect our borders and
uphold human dignity.

While tackling immigration reform now may be viewed as politically inconvenient,
the faith community is mobilized like never before to pressure Congress and
President Barack Obama to do the right thing. Efforts such as the Justice for
Immigrants Campaign of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Interfaith
Immigration Coalition and Christians for Comprehensive Immigration Reform are
working nationally and in states where key members of Congress will be decisive
in passing reform.

As people of faith, we are keeping our eyes on the prize, just as we did as
leaders of the civil rights movement and other historic struggles for justice
that helped perfect the promise of America. When the marching and praying end
this weekend in Washington, our representatives in Congress will know we don't
plan on stopping anytime soon.

THE REV. JON PEDIGO is pastor of St. Julie Billiart Parish in San Jose. He is a
PACT (People Acting in Community Together) faith leader and was named the 2008
immigrant advocate of the year award by the Services, Immigrants Rights and
Education Network. He wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday

Immigration-reform rally draws 1,000 in downtown San Jose

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez jrodriguez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 657 words


As thousands rallied for immigration reform in the nation's capital, Agustin
Mendoza proudly carried a large American flag from Sacred Heart church to a
similar demonstration in downtown San Jose. He started talking about President
Obama and his fellow Democrats on Capitol Hill.

"Promises, promises," said the 62-year-old maintenance worker from San Jose.
"When they win our vote, they forget completely about their promises to us.

"But I don't forget!"

Growing increasingly impatient, tens of thousands of people, many of them
Latinos, rallied across the nation, urging the president and Congress to
liberalize immigration laws and give illegal immigrants a way to become legal
residents.

In San Jose, about 1,000 gathered at four Catholic churches and marched to Plaza
de Cesar Chavez downtown. Similar rallies in Salinas, Santa Rosa and Modesto
drew thousands more.

Obama sought to reassure a large crowd at the National Mall with a video message
presented on giant screens, saying he was committed to working with Congress
this year on a comprehensive bill to fix a "broken immigration system."

In San Jose, rally organizer Cesar Juarez expressed his frustration, saying that
an immigration reform bill should have been passed years ago.

"I truly believe Obama wants immigration reform, but I also see how difficult it
will be," he said on the sidewalk outside Sacred Heart, a Catholic church. "Look
at the battle over health care and how dirty, how tricky it became. But we are
not waiting any longer for immigration reform." At about the same time as
immigration marchers rallied throughout the country, Obama was getting ready to
sign a comprehensive health-care bill that excluded illegal immigrants from its
provisions.

Ramon Padilla, a college-educated machine programmer who was granted amnesty
through the 1986 immigration reform, called the omission "inhumane." But he said
the undocumented could get access to government medical coverage through
immigration reform.

"Legalization is the key," said the 39-year-old Hayward man. "Once people get
legalized as residents or citizens, then they can qualify for health care and
other services."

Others at the rally agreed, putting far more hope and stock in an immigration
bill that would deliver more to illegal immigrants, including a swifter path to
legalization and citizenship, eligibility for publicly funded scholarships and
drivers' licenses.

As they did in recent immigration marches, hundreds of Latino families marched
together and carried American flags. They were joined by hundreds of college
students, giving a youthful look to their movement.

Magdalena Ramirez, a 39-year-old Mexican immigrant from San Jose, marched with
her husband, Alfonso, and their three young sons. She pushed the youngest,
3-year-old Jorge, in a husky stroller.

"I think we can pass immigration reform even with the bad economy and fear of
immigrants," said Magdalena Ramirez, who works for an Indo-American food
company. "Even as they tell us to get out of the country, they still give us
jobs. These are jobs they don't want because they have higher aspirations. But
we'll take these jobs gladly."

Mayra Salvador, an undocumented student at Evergreen Community College, said she
arrived in the United States at age 5.

"This is the only life I know," she said in both English and Spanish. "I'm not
going to give up on immigration reform."

Agustin Mendoza, the man waving the large Stars and Stripes, wanted to remind
Latinos and conservative Republicans that one of his heroes, President Ronald
Reagan, supported and signed the 1986 immigration reform that granted amnesty to
millions of illegal immigrants.

"I don't forget that either," he said.

The rally featured familiar chants, including "Sí se puede" (Yes we can), but it
ushered in a new one the president may well hear throughout the year: "Obama,
escucha, estamos en la lucha."

Obama, listen, we're still in the fight.

Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rally attendees hold a San Jose based rally - in support of a massive
pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar Chavez Park in San
Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury News)
Rally attendees Juan Carlos Valazquez Analco speacks to crowd with megaphone,
Laly Arellano, center, holds sign during the San Jose based rally - in support
of a massive pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar Chavez
Park in San Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury News)
Rally attendees raise their hands during San Jose based rally - in support of a
massive pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar Chavez Park
in San Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury News)
Rally attendees hold a San Jose based rally - in support of a massive
pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar Chavez Park in San
Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury News)
Rally attendees hold a San Jose based rally - in support of a massive
pro-immigration rally in Washington D.C. at Plaza de Cesar Chavez Park in San
Jose, Calif. on Sunday, March 21, 2010. (Josie Lepe/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

In San Jose, the Bay Area and the nation, tens of thousands march for immigrant
rights

BYLINE: By Linda Goldston lgoldston@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 928 words


With their American flags flying, Karina Hernandez and her family waited
patiently in the shade Saturday for a march from San Jose's East Side to City
Hall to get under way.

The family -- Hernandez and her husband, her sister, brother-in-law and
children, nine in all -- march every year on May 1. But this year it was more
than a tradition of asking for better immigration laws. This year, Hernandez,
25, said she felt sad and worried for people in Arizona, which passed a new
state immigration law last week that some call the toughest in the nation.

"I was born here. My parents came here 30 years ago, and they became citizens,"
she said. "But we're all human; we should be united."

The San Jose march and rally was just one of dozens of events held around the
country Saturday to protest Arizona's law, which gives police the right to
question people about their immigration status if being investigated for
something else. It also requires immigrants who have become citizens to carry
papers proving their citizenship.

Several thousand people began the march from the intersection of King and Story
roads and were joined by about 5,000 others on the way to San Jose City Hall,
where a brief but impassioned rally was held.

Minutemen, too

In Oakland, thousands of demonstrators moved along International Boulevard,
waving American flags and holding signs with slogans such as "We are all
Arizona," "Legalizacion Ahora," and "Brown and Proud."

The group marched from East Oakland's Fruitvale BART station to City Hall
downtown.

The streets of Watsonville also echoed with chants Saturday, as nearly 400
people rallied for workers rights and against Arizona's law.The May Day protest
and rally filled Watsonville Plaza at 4 p.m., where hundreds of immigration
reform supporters created signs and T-shirts demanding nondiscriminatory reform.

In San Francisco, thousands more marched through the largely Hispanic Mission
neighborhood, an event that's taken place each May 1 for years. "We are marching
today in solidarity with all immigrants," 27-year-old event organizer Diana
Macasa said before the march.

Another rally was held midafternoon at San Francisco's Civic Center, where
poets, singers and rappers performed, in addition to the political speeches.

About 70 members of the Golden Gate Minutemen, a pro-legal immigration group,
were on the steps of City Hall when marchers in San Francisco arrived.

"We were standing up for the 200 million Americans who believe in legal
immigration," said Steve Kemp, a member of the Minutemen group that supports the
Arizona law. "The Arizona law mirrors federal immigration law."

Kemp said his group was "barricaded in" on the steps of City Hall "and when
marchers finally did arrive, a number of them immediately started calling us
racist and other hate names."

Around the country, thousands of activists, politicians and students took to the
streets to demand rights for immigrants. In Los Angeles, police said the crowd
had peaked at 50,000. Protesters numbered 25,000 in Dallas, more than 10,000 in
Chicago and Milwaukee, and in the thousands in Washington, D.C., according to
the police and independent estimates. Organizers said rallies and prayer vigils
were held in more than 70 places around the country.

Critics of the new law say it will allow for racial profiling and is racist,
despite word changes made in the law late last week.

Supporters of the law, however, including Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a
Republican, said the state had to act because the federal government had failed
to enforce the immigration laws.

Hernandez's sister, Claudia Chavez, 31, said she wanted to be part of the march
and rally in San Jose because she supports "the immigrants who are already here,
who are working, with families and are not criminals."

History lessons

Nodding to the big American flag her family carried, she said, "We love America.
We want to be here. Our children were born here, but there are a lot of families
who work hard and are here illegally. What happens if a spouse has to leave and
go back to Mexico? We want the economy to go up, not down."

Salud Pineda of Los Banos also came to the San Jose march with a large group of
family members -- 12 from Los Banos and Gilroy. She said she also knows of a lot
of people who could be sent back to Mexico if asked to prove their citizenship,
and doesn't think it's right.

"I have a green card, but you never know with the laws," she said. "I've been
here since I was 8 years old."

Organizers said many high school and college students planned to attend the
marches and rallies Saturday, including 200 from Yerba Buena High School, said
Macario Ortiz, a history teacher at the school.

"We are finishing the Cold War in class, but we had studied the history of
immigration in the U.S.," he said, including what that meant when more workers
were needed in various industries.

"When there is a shortage of labor, they open up the borders," he said. "When
there is a recession, they close them down, and then they start pointing fingers
at immigrants."

Legislators in Arizona "should have thought about it more before they passed
that bill," said Gabriel Jimenez, manager of the Mi Pueblo supermarket. "It will
help people get organized more, not be in the shadows anymore."

Wire services and the Bay Area News Group contributed to this report.

Criminalizes illegal immigration by defining unlawful presence as trespassing,
the first law of its kind ever passed Requires police officers to determine the
status of a person if there is "reasonable suspicion" that he or she is an
illegal immigrant

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Opinion: Clueless on immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 718 words


Just in time for Cinco de Mayo   or as President Barack Obama mistakenly
referred to it at a White House reception last year marking the Mexican holiday,
"Cinco de Cuatro"   the chief executive is delivering a clear message to the
nation's embattled Latino community: "You're on your own, amigos."

The nicest thing you can say is that Obama is failing to deal with one of the
great moral issues of our time: immigration reform. The not-so-nice version is
that Obama is subverting the immigration reform cause to get congressional
Democrats off the hook in an election year when their prospects are shaky.

Latino Democrats have been telling themselves that the reason Obama broke his
campaign promise to work for immigration reform in his first year is because he
had a full plate of other issues. They swallowed every disappointment   when the
administration kept up the policy of raiding workplaces, when Obama dedicated
just 37 words to immigration in his State of the Union address, when it was
revealed that Immigration and Customs Enforcement uses quotas to ratchet up the
number of deportations.

In the latest setback, activists are quietly fuming that Obama couldn't summon a
stronger word than "misguided" to describe Arizona's racial profiling law
something for which The New York Times editorial page also took Obama to task.

Why would this surprise anyone? Obama has a poor record on immigration. As a
senator, he joined Democratic leader Harry Reid in trying to kill an immigration
reform bill with poison pill amendments   all to please organized labor, which
preferred no bill to one with guest workers.

Obama has also been more than willing to play politics with the immigration
issue for short-term gain. My theory is that Obama falls into the part of the
liberal spectrum that is leery of immigration reform because of concerns that
immigrant labor hurts blue-collar workers, especially African-Americans.

Now, a line has been crossed. On Air Force One a few days ago, Obama went from
not helping the cause of comprehensive immigration reform to actually hurting
it. In a rare visit to the press section of the plane, Obama threw cold water on
the prospect of Congress overhauling immigration laws this year   and in doing
so, cut the legs out from underneath immigration reform proponents.

Submitting that "there may not be an appetite" to repair the broken immigration
system this year, Obama tried to portray Republicans as the problem. Forget that
Democrats run the show at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. Obama claimed that
he needs Republican votes to pass immigration reform, and, rather than go it
alone with only Democratic support, he's willing to wait for GOP lawmakers.

Good luck. Obama knows full well that the Republicans won't help him cross the
street until after November. Besides, where was this insistence on waiting for
Republican support when the cause was health care reform? There, the president
forged ahead without the GOP.

Mr. President, you picked a fine time to go AWOL. The enactment of the Arizona
racial profiling law, which subjects Latinos to second-class treatment and
harassment, makes it vital that the White House and Congress take on the
immigration issue in order to provide illegal immigrants with a federal cloak of
protection against abuses in Arizona.

This looks familiar. Numerous historians have noted that President John F.
Kennedy was no friend to the civil rights movement early in his presidency
because he worried it would torpedo his legislative agenda. He even ordered
Attorney General Robert Kennedy to try to convince activists to forgo the
freedom rides that challenged Jim Crow laws in the South. It wasn't until May
1963, when television brought into American homes the disturbing images of
police dogs and fire hoses being turned on demonstrators in Birmingham, Ala.,
that Kennedy finally started coming around. On June 11, 1963, the president   in
a national address broadcast on radio and television   described civil rights as
"a moral issue ... as old as the Scriptures and ... as clear as the American
Constitution."

Better late than never. For a time, Kennedy was, by virtue of his life
experience, clueless when it came to the issue of civil rights. Now Obama is
making similar mistakes because he is just as clueless about immigration.



LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

San Jose officials to vote on Arizona boycott

BYLINE: By John Woolfolk jwoolfolk@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 476 words


The San Jose City Council will vote next month on whether to join other cities
and counties in boycotting Arizona over that state's controversial
illegal-immigration law, the toughest in the nation.

A council committee led by Mayor Chuck Reed on Wednesday scheduled a June 8 vote
by the full council. They will debate a proposal by four council members to
denounce the Arizona law and consider restricting city travel and contracts
there.

The bill signed last month requires state and local police to verify immigration
status "where reasonable suspicion exists that the person is an alien who is
unlawfully present in the United States."

Backers say the law merely allows state officials to enforce federal laws
already on the books, while critics say it invites racial profiling and will
discourage immigrants from cooperating with authorities.

On May 5, San Jose council members Madison Nguyen, Sam Liccardo, Rose Herrera
and Ash Kalra called for the city to consider prohibiting use of public funds to
travel to the state or doing business with companies based there.

Reed called the Arizona law "a mistake" but said he has concerns about San
Jose's legal ability to impede interstate commerce through a boycott. He asked
the city attorney to research the matter before next month's vote.

"I'll be in favor of taking some sort of action," Reed said.

Councilman Pete Constant questioned whether the council would be violating its
own policies by meddling in the affairs of Arizona. Council policy states that
the city should not take a position on actions of other states "when no impact
is felt upon the government of the city of San Jose."

But Vice Mayor Judy Chirco said Arizona's law "does affect us because we have
the same type of population Arizona does." She added that while she supports
securing the nation's borders against unlawful entry, "they are part of our
community, part of our economy."

San Jose officials are hardly the first to take issue with the Arizona law. Los
Angeles officials Wednesday voted to bar the city from conducting business or
forging new contracts with Arizona companies and to prohibit most city business
trips to the state unless the immigration law is repealed.

San Francisco supervisors Tuesday approved a nonbinding resolution urging a
boycott of Arizona-based businesses and asking sports leagues not to hold
championship games or tournaments there.

Also Tuesday, Santa Clara County supervisors voted 4-1 to join legal efforts to
overturn the Arizona law, which Supervisor George Shirakawa Jr. called "a direct
assault on people's civil rights." Supervisor Don Gage, the lone opponent, said
that while he doesn't support "prejudice," the county "should not be involved in
another state's issue."

Mercury News staff writer Tracy Seipel and The Associated Press contributed to
this report. Contact John Woolfolk at 408-975-9346.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday

San Mateo County sheriff starts sending fingerprints of everyone arrested to ICE

BYLINE: By Shaun Bishop Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 682 words


On the same day San Mateo County Sheriff Greg Munks began sending the
fingerprints of arrestees to federal authorities, immigrant rights activists
Tuesday called on the board of supervisors and sheriff to halt the practice.

But county officials may not have much of a choice in the matter because
California Attorney General Jerry Brown later in the day denied a request by San
Francisco's sheriff to opt out of the nationwide program.

The so-called Secure Communities program is being rolled out by U.S.
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement in an effort to identify illegal
immigrants.

Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman, said counties already send fingerprints
collected during jail bookings to law enforcement databases maintained by the
state Department of Justice and the FBI to check for other warrants and past
criminal history.

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints are automatically compared with those
in the Department of Homeland Security's immigration database. The results are
then reported back to local jurisdictions.

Critics say the policy means illegal immigrants arrested for minor crimes could
be deported, even if criminal charges are never filed. In addition, the program
could affect the small percentage of legal citizens whose fingerprints were
mistakenly entered into the federal immigration database, activists said Tuesday
at a rally in Redwood City.

"This makes people more vulnerable. I think they won't trust the sheriff," said
Reena Johan, who sits on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union of
Northern California.

Kice said authorities just want to identify illegal immigrants with lengthy
criminal histories or deportation records. She said Secure Communities is
"nothing more than an information-sharing system" that will allow authorities to
make "prudent decisions about follow-up actions.

"One of the challenges we face is because of the volume of people encountered by
local law enforcement, we believe, in some cases, criminally convicted aliens
that may pose a threat to public safety are being released back onto the
streets," Kice said.

While counties already run the names of some arrestees by federal immigration
officials, Kice said the accused sometimes give false information.

"Fingerprints don't lie," she said.

Board of supervisors President Rich Gordon said county counsel will prepare a
report to determine whether San Mateo County can consider not participating, but
added it "doesn't sound that way under what Jerry Brown said today."

Brown sent a letter Tuesday denying San Francisco Sheriff Michael Hennessey's
request to opt out, saying the program "serves both public safety and the
interests of justice."

"If the attorney general's ruling is applicable to all counties and is a ruling
that would stand, then we follow the law until such time the law is changed,"
Gordon said.

Secure Communities has already been implemented in 169 counties in 20 states,
including 17 in California, according to the attorney general.

Gordon said he has not yet formed an opinion about whether the county should opt
out   if it can   but noted he wants to "make sure this is not something that
makes it more difficult for legal immigrants in our country (and) not something
that ends up providing a profiling opportunity."

He also noted that while supervisors could voice their opinion, the program is
implemented by the sheriff, and "at the end of the day it would end up being his
decision."

Munks could not be reached for comment.

Before news of Brown's ruling, activist groups, including the International
Institute of the Bay Area and the Immigrant Legal Resource Center, delivered a
letter to the board of supervisors, saying they have serious concerns about the
program and believe it is optional for counties.

Sara Matlin, an attorney who represents domestic violence victims, said the
abused are sometimes arrested if abusers accuse them of wrongdoing. Matlin, who
also serves on the ACLU's board, said she usually urges illegal immigrant
victims to report the crimes, "but now I can't do that safely."

E-mail Shaun Bishop at sbishop@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words


washington, d.c.

Obama plans speech on immigration Thursday

President Barack Obama is following up two days of meetings on U.S. immigration
policy with a speech Thursday on the need for a comprehensive solution to what
he and others have said is a broken system.

Obama discussed immigration and the speech at a White House meeting Tuesday with
members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said Tuesday that Obama's speech will
reiterate past statements on the need for a solution, that immigration policy is
a federal responsibility and that the U.S. can't afford a patchwork of state
laws.

Meeting on energy fails to unite lawmakers

The senators who emerged from a White House meeting with President Barack Obama
on energy policy Tuesday made no effort to paper over the differences that
remain.

Democrats continued to insist on putting some sort of price on greenhouse gas
emissions; Republicans continued to insist that to do so would be to impose a
tax that would smother the economy.

"We have to take a national energy tax off the table," said Sen. Lamar
Alexander, R-Tenn.

"There is no energy tax," said Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., sponsor of a bill that
would raise the cost of greenhouse gas pollution.

oregon

Stepmom of missing boy barred from her kids

A judge has barred the stepmother of a missing 7-year-old Portland boy from
contact with her children and from access to firearms, further isolating her
from the investigation into Kyron Horman's disappearance.

The boy's father, Kaine Horman, filed for divorce Monday from Terri Moulton
Horman, citing "irreconcilable differences," and requested a restraining order,
which was granted shortly after by a judge in Portland.

Investigators have not named Terri Horman as a suspect in the Kyron's
disappearance. They have said she's the last person known to have seen him
before he vanished June 4.

In other news

The U.S. military says it shot down a short-range ballistic missile in a test
off Hawaii on Monday night.

From The Associated Press and New York Times

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 26, 2010 Monday

Letters from Los Gatos Weekly-Times readers

BYLINE: From Los Gatos Weekly-Times readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Los Gatos; News; Local

LENGTH: 1001 words


LGHS alumni urged to attend Simonson event

Thank you for your recent editorial ("A special day for Ted, but keep quiet it's
a surprise," July 13) on the special event for Ted Simonson to be held on Aug.
21.

The Los Gatos High School Alumni Association, Inc. supports this event and
encourages alumni and the entire Los Gatos community to attend. It should be a
fun day for alumni young and old to come together to honor an administrative
team lead by Ted Simonson.

Chris Miller

Los Gatos

Chris Miller is the board president of the Los Gatos High School Alumni
Association.

Immigration letter by Rep. Honda is pure propaganda

In the July 13 opinion letters of the Los Gatos Weekly-Times, Rep. Mike Honda
and Rosario Dawson suggested an immigration reform path ("Immigration reform
needs a path to citizenship"). Their letter was so full of left-wing ideology it
serves as pure propaganda, and nothing more. The Arizona Senate Bill 1070
specifically does not allow law enforcement to "stop, question, detain and
report based on suspicion etc. ... " but as a liberal bureaucrat, I wouldn't
expect that you have read the bill. The Arizona bill details that before law
enforcement can inquire legal status they must already be engaged in another
police matter. Are you concerned about potential "illegals" having to show ID? I
must show ID when pulled over by police, making purchases with credit card, at a
doctor's appointment, filling out credit applications, applying for a driver's
license renewal, when updating a passport, college applications, donating blood
or boarding an airplane or train.

If you "understand" Arizona's desire to initiate immigration reform, then you
must also understand Arizona's and most Americans frustration with the feds'
failure to implement even the minimum border control. How can a state law that
mirrors the federal law interfere with the feds' obligatory duty? Seems to me
that Arizona ought to be thanked for helping the feds do their job. Do you
believe federal law trumps state law? If so, as a California bureaucrat, how do
you explain California's legal marijuana sales? It's still illegal according to
federal law.

Yes, lots of Americans immigrated (not all, as you claim some Americans are born
here, you know). But the immigrants I know of, including my parents, immigrated
"legally" without breaking the law. You mentioned that if immigrants could "come
out" they could pursue higher pay jobs and pay more taxes, etc. And are you
aware in 2006, illegal aliens sent home to their countries of origin $45 billion
in remittances? How much of that was in taxpayer-provided dollars?

Yes, Arizona has a huge debt, so does California, that you and your party
contributed in helping bankrupt.

You think the Arizona law will push illegals into the shadows? Where are they
now, even with "so called" sanctuary cities. Your comment that the Arizona bill
takes us away from American ideals? Oh yeah? When did breaking our immigration
laws become an American ideal?

As you mentioned the Japanese internment, you failed to remind readers that it
was your party's hero, FDR, that initiated such a plan.

In this time of state bankruptcy, I would remind voters $11 billion to $22
billion is spent on welfare to illegal aliens each year by state governments. So
let's quit piling on debt for our children and grandchildren, please.

Peter Azzarelli

Los Gatos

'Shame' on the newspapers for publishing letter

It is a pity that you allowed yourself to be used by the Obama propaganda
machine to publish the disgraceful White House mass mailing ("Immigration reform
needs a path to citizenship," letter by Rep. Mike Honda and Rosario Dawson, July
13). The letter intentionally misrepresents the Arizona anti-illegal immigration
statute, makes hysterical and nonsensical comparisons, and is an insult to your
readers.

Cynics among us expect politicians to lie. Idealists among us expect the press
to call them on it. Shame on you.

Marc van Niekerk

Los Gatos

Senate needs to pass meaningful immigration law

Regarding the letter from Congressman Mike Honda ("Immigration reform needs a
path to citizenship," letter by Rep. Mike Honda and Rosario Dawson, July 13); I
would like to suggest that Mr. Honda use his influence in the House of
Representatives to urge the United States Senate to work on and implement an
immigration reform, rather than castigate Arizona for its newly adopted law
concerning illegal immigrants.

I feel confident that if the United States Senate had passed a meaningful
immigration law, Arizona would not have acted as it did.

Egon Jensen

Los Gatos

Shakespeare comes alive again in Oak Meadow Park

There is yet another reason to love living in Los Gatos: Every summer for the
past nine years, Shakespeare has come alive in Oak Meadow Park with its Los
Gatos Shakespeare Festival. What a thrill it is to sit under the stars before a
replica of the Old Globe and be transported to another time and place.

I've anticipated every season since Festival Theatre Ensemble established Los
Gatos as its home base, and have always been completely satisfied. There are the
seasoned actors portraying their roles as cleverly as always; there are young
actors who've grown right before our eyes, year after year; and there are newer
thespians, surprising and delighting the audience with their talents and that's
not even mentioning the staging and costuming!

This year's family-friendly performance of Treasure Island had all the thrills
and excitement of a fast-moving adventure movie: fight scenes, pistol duels,
murders, and of course, special effects (I'm wondering what's in store for me
with the next two plays, Taming of the Shrew and The Importance of Being
Earnest).

I invite everyone to come out to the park, bring a picnic dinner and then settle
in for an enjoyable evening of top-rate entertainment in our own home town.

Mary Tomasi-Dubois

Los Gatos

Mary Tomasi-Dubois is a member of the Shakespeare board. For ticket information
and program schedule visit http://www.festivaltheatreensemble.org/ .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday

Santa Clara County supervisors get answer they wanted in quest to opt out of
federal law enforcement program

BYLINE: By Tracy Seipel tseipel@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 452 words


A controversial federal program that seeks to enlist local law enforcement in
the war on illegal immigrants is apparently voluntary, according to a federal
memo seeking to clarify confusion about the program.

Armed with this new information, Santa Clara County Supervisors George Shirakawa
and Don Gage on Wednesday agreed to forward a recommendation to the full board
that directs county officials to opt out.

Known as Secure Communities, the program has been put in place across the United
States, sparking praise from law-and-order advocates and fear from immigrant
rights groups.

If the five-member board approves, the county will notify federal immigration
enforcement authorities and the state Department of Justice of its opposition to
participating in Secure Communities, which began in the county May 4.

The resolution also asks that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
refrain from accessing fingerprint data the county provides to other federal
authorities.

A spokeswoman for Shirakawa said she expects the matter to go before the board
at its Sept. 28 meeting.

The program, which was launched last year and is being phased in across Northern
California this summer, gives federal officials access to the fingerprints of
people arrested locally.

Backers call it a common-sense strategy that's led to the deportation of tens of
thousands of lawbreakers. Critics say it focuses too much on low-level criminals
and does not protect against racial profiling, among other problems.

The proposal to the board comes after news of a recent memo issued by ICE that
clarifies that local jurisdictions can choose not to participate. The state
attorney general's office had previously denied at least one request from San
Francisco officials to opt out of the program.

Santa Clara County leaders have said they never agreed to participate in the
program but inadvertently play a role in it whenever someone is arrested and
taken to the county jail. At that point, his or her fingerprints are sent to an
identification system that is ultimately downloaded to the California Department
of Justice.

That agency, in turn, has a practice of sharing information with the federal
government for law enforcement purposes. The county doesn't object to that, but
it does protest allowing ICE officials to access the information to verify
immigration status.

"It seems like ICE is kind of backtracking by issuing statements to the press
and public that Secure Communities has been a cooperative program all along,"
said Deputy County Counsel Anjali Bhargava. "That is not consistent with our
experience working with ICE. But we are hopeful that this represents a change in
direction."

Contact Tracy Seipel at 408-275-0140.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

San Jose man fears persecution in Philippines, tries to avoid deportation

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez mgomez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 912 words


After 18 years and several postponements, a San Jose man seeking political
asylum in the United States was finally to have his day in immigration court.

But a miscommunication between Benito "Benny" Honorio and his former attorney
caused him to arrive late to his hearing in March 2009, missing an opportunity
to argue and plead his case before a judge. An immigration judge held the
hearing without Honorio and ordered to have him deported, according to his new
attorney, Rajat Kuver.

Honorio, 44, is now sitting in a Yuba County jail while Kuver races against the
clock to win another court hearing from the federal Board of Immigration
Appeals. Kuver said Honorio "could be tortured and killed in the Philippines
because of his past political activities." The group "that he fears has a
history of torture and murder," Kuver said, the reason why Honorio is seeking to
remain in the U.S.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement does not have to wait for the appeals
board's ruling before deporting Honorio to the Philippines, Kuver said.

"Immigration is just waiting to get his passport and then they are going to put
him on a plane," Kuver said. "If they can deport him before the decision, the
game is over. He automatically loses."

Although federal officials have "already determined that (Honorio) has a
well-founded fear of persecution in the Philippines," Kuver said, Honorio was
denied asylum in error.

Many of Honorio's friends and fellow community members, including a Santa Clara
City Council member, are pushing for a hearing. They say Honorio deserves that
much, considering all he has given to the community.

"It just seems un-American the system can't give him a fair up or down vote
after so many years of serving and giving," said Honorio's employer, insurance
agent Marc Derendinger. "The total accumulated effect would be worse for the
people here. It would create a void in their lives."

Derendinger and Honorio specialize in insurance programs for law enforcement
unions in Santa Clara County; Honorio, who is a licensed life insurance agent in
the state and specializes in financial services for annuities and long-term care
planning, has scores of clients, many of whom are police officers.

Although the immigration judge issued Honorio's deportation in March 2009, he
was not picked up by ICE agents until last month. Kuver, who filed the appeals
motion with the board of immigration Oct. 28, 2009, said it usually takes one
year for a decision to be made.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice confirmed Honorio was arrested in San Jose on Aug.
18 based upon an order issued in March 2009. Kice said ICE prioritizes cases
based on public safety and national security.

Kice also confirmed that immigration officials must have proper travel documents
before deporting someone who is in the U.S. illegally.

In the first 24 hours after receiving word of Honorio's arrest, more than 18
friends and community members wrote letters in Honorio's behalf. Several friends
and members of WestGate Church in San Jose walked through the doors of
Derendinger's insurance office to write checks for Honorio's legal costs.

The letters detailed Honorio's deep ties to the community, his vast volunteer
work and active role in WestGate Church. Jamie Matthews, a Santa Clara council
member, described Honorio as a "hardworking and committed volunteer" for
Beautiful Day-Better Homes, a program that has refurbished more than 30 homes of
the elderly, disabled and low-income families who have serious safety
violations.

Robert Varich, president of the Moreland School District board of trustees,
wrote about Honorio's volunteer work with at-risk and low-income students in
Kids Club, where he helps them learn to read.

"Obviously, he has done a lot for a lot of people," Derendinger said. "He would
make a great citizen."

Those seeking political asylum have two chances to win permanent status in the
United States, according to Kuver, who specializes in immigration law.
Individuals first receive an informal administrative asylum review with an
immigration officer. If the case is denied, a more formal hearing is held with a
judge, where individuals are allowed to produce witnesses and testimony.

Honorio came to the United States in July 1990 and applied for political asylum
a few months later, Kuver said. Federal immigration officials did not review his
case until 2005, when they denied his request. Kuver said the official who
interviewed Honorio during his administrative asylum hearing believed Honorio's
story and that Honorio has a well-founded fear of persecution in the
Philippines.

The Mercury News is not detailing Honorio's story to protect him in the event he
is sent to the Philippines.

"Benito got shortchanged because he had his first interview but he never had his
full-blown asylum hearing in front of the judge," Kuver said. "Every applicant
has that right."

All along, Honorio has been ready to accept whatever the judge rules in his
hearing, according to his friends.

If Honorio is deported, he faces a 10- to 20-year ban on applying for a new
visa.

"If he's deported, he will abide by the law, which will leave a void in a lot of
people's lives," said Justin Bradley, who leads a spiritual life development
group with Honorio at WestGate.

Kuver's biggest fear is that Honorio will be placed on a plane and disappear
without notice.

"That's what I'm worried about. He'll call from the Philippines and BIA will
have ruled in his favor."

Contact Mark Gomez at 408-920-5869.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Opinion: Navarrette: Update from Arizona

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 669 words


Arizona has spent the last several months binging on a cocktail of nativism and
fear with a splash of political expediency. Now comes the hangover.

It has been several weeks since I was last here in Phoenix, the nation's
fifth-largest city, as part of the media contingent that descended for a quick
lesson about how not to address the immigration issue. It was early August and
U.S. District Court Judge Susan Bolton had just gutted Arizona's immigration
law, preventing the worst parts from going into effect. As a result, local
police -- who are out of their depth when they attempt to enforce federal
immigration law -- were mercifully spared the mandate to do so. And mischievous
state lawmakers were reminded that, in our system, you don't get to violate the
law under the guise of defending it, and those with the itch to make immigration
policy ought to run for Congress.

I came back to speak about the immigration debate before a gathering of school
board members from around the state.

I listened to what people had to say about being on the front lines of a
national debate and what they have been going through since the pot boiled over.
The first thing I detected was the hard feelings. Tempers are still hot.

The conservatives in the business community resent the conservatives in the
nativist fringe for hurting the Arizona brand, scaring off companies that might
otherwise relocate and running off the labor force.

Latinos resent Anglos for not being truthful about their motives, which have a
lot to do with downsizing the Latino population. Meanwhile, Anglos resent
Latinos for putting ethnic tribalism ahead of the best interests of the state.

This being an election year, Republicans resent Democrats for playing the race
card as a means of pandering to Latino voters. And Democrats resent Republicans
for scoring political points by scaring voters into thinking that drug cartels
are smuggling illegal immigrants into Arizona and then beheading their clients
in the desert once they get there -- which, I imagine, if it were really
happening, wouldn't be good for business.

For the record, the beheadings are baloney. You could say that the one good
thing to come out of Gov. Jan Brewer's meltdown during a recent gubernatorial
debate is that a few days later, she had to admit the inaccuracy of her claim
that authorities had found decapitated bodies in the desert.

Not that it did Brewer much harm. Polls show she has a commanding 22-point lead.
Slightly more than half of respondents in one survey said that Brewer's
performance in the debate was either not very important to their decision or not
at all important.

Here are two other things that apparently are not so important to Arizona
voters: truth and honesty.

I told the school board members that, as someone who lived in Phoenix in the
late 1990s, I'm not buying the line that they're selling to the rest of the
national media about how the state is the innocent victim of an invasion. That's
just a canard that helps let Arizonans off the hook for two decades of hiring
the same illegal immigrants they now want nothing to do with.

Meanwhile, Republican politicians want those illegal immigrants out too, but for
other reasons. They're worried that the interlopers will have U.S.-born kids who
will, in turn, grow up and vote Democratic and change the political landscape
just like their parents changed the demographic one.

Not to worry. State Sen. Russell Pearce, who co-authored the state's snake-bit
immigration law, has that covered. He has announced plans to introduce more
bills in January that would, among other things, charge tuition for illegal
immigrant children to attend public school and deny state-issued birth
certificates to the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants.

You didn't think the Arizona immigration story was over with? In this state,
this is the new normal. After all, as any recovering addict knows, when you have
a problem, the next binge is just around the corner.

Ruben Navarrette Jr. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 17, 2010 Friday

Contra Costa attorneys offer reduced rates in immigration, family law

BYLINE: By Malaika Fraley Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 156 words


MARTINEZ -- The Contra Costa County Bar Association is now offering financial
breaks for people having trouble paying for an immigration attorney.

The association's Moderate Means Program refers people with low or moderate
incomes to local attorneys who have agreed to bill reduced hourly rates and
retainer fees to program participants. The program has been joining clients with
family law attorneys for more than three years, and recently expanded its
referral list to include immigration attorneys.

The group hopes to add attorneys specializing in elder issues to the program in
the future, association spokeswoman Barbara Tillson said.

Program eligibility is based on gross monthly income and household size.
Participants must have a case in Contra Costa County, but they don't have to
reside there.

For more information, visit www.cccba.org . To request an application, contact
Manny Gutierrez at 925-677-0234 or mgutierrez@cccba.org .

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

People: Japan says 'not so fast' to Paris.

BYLINE: By Tony Hicks Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS; Entertainment

LENGTH: 414 words


Maybe Paris Hilton just needs to get out of the country to get her head on
straight and forget about this whole drug conviction thing and "...

D'oh.

Japanese officials delayed Hilton at Narita Airport on Tuesday while deciding
whether she will be admitted to the country after pleading guilty to a
misdemeanor drug charge in Las Vegas. Hilton's rep, Dawn Miller, said in a
statement that the 29-year-old was stopped by immigration authorities upon her
arrival Tuesday in Japan, one day after her plea.

Hilton was scheduled to appear at a news conference in Tokyo today to promote
her fashion and fragrance lines. Immigration officials questioned Hilton "for
hours" to determine whether she should be allowed to enter the country,
according to Japan's Kyodo news agency.

Actually, only a couple of questions were about drugs. The rest of the time was
spent trying to get to the bottom of this whole "So, again, why are you famous
in America?" thing.

Authorities asked Hilton to stay at a hotel in the airport so they could
continue immigration procedures today, Kyodo reported.

Under Japanese law, immigration authorities are empowered to deny entry to those
convicted of drug-related offenses. And if they're just simply annoying.

Hilton also planned to visit Malaysia and Indonesia. Both countries have strict
anti-drug laws and immigration procedures, and it was unclear whether Hilton
would continue her travels.

'Mad Men's' Elisabeth Moss files for divorce

Court records show that "Mad Men" star Elisabeth Moss filed for divorce from
comedian Fred Armisen in Los Angeles after less than a year of marriage. The
actress and the comedian were married in October but separated in June.
Moss portrays career-oriented Peggy Olson on Emmy-winning "Mad Men." Armisen has
been on "Saturday Night Live" since 2002.
 People.com reported that the couple's work schedules and long-distance
relationship were causes for their split.

And we thought J-Lo was the problem

A day before "American Idol" announces the judges for the show's ninth season,
Randy Jackson reached a formal agreement to return to the show, according to the
Today Show website.
A source with knowledge of the agreement said "it's a multiyear deal."
Reps for "Idol" wouldn't comment, saying only, "We'll make official
announcements at the news conference." That happens at noon today.
The source wouldn't say what took so long to negotiate Jackson's deal. However,
it's rumored that it took some time to come to an agreement regarding salary.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

People: Japan says 'not so fast' to Paris.

BYLINE: By Tony Hicks Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS; Entertainment

LENGTH: 910 words


Maybe Paris Hilton just needs to get out of the country to get her head on
straight and forget about this whole drug conviction thing and ...

D'oh.

Japanese officials delayed Hilton at Narita Airport on Tuesday while deciding
whether she will be admitted to the country after pleading guilty to a
misdemeanor drug charge in Las Vegas. Hilton's rep, Dawn Miller, said in a
statement that the 29-year-old was stopped by immigration authorities upon her
arrival Tuesday in Japan, one day after her plea. Hilton was scheduled to appear
at a news conference in Tokyo today to promote her fashion and fragrance lines.
Immigration officials questioned Hilton "for hours" to determine if she should
be allowed to enter the country, according to Japan's Kyodo news agency.

Actually, only a couple questions were about drugs. The rest of the time was
spent trying to get to the bottom of this whole "So, again, why are you famous
in America?" thing.

Authorities asked Hilton to stay at a hotel in the airport so they could
continue immigration procedures today, Kyodo reported. Under Japanese law,
immigration authorities are empowered to deny entry to those convicted of
drug-related offenses. And if they're just simply annoying.

Hilton also planned to visit Malaysia and Indonesia. Both countries have strict
anti-drug laws and immigration procedures, and it was unclear whether Hilton
would continue her travels. Which isn't cool because she's working and probably
totally needs the money.

Miller's statement said Hilton was disappointed. "Paris was contractually bound
to her business trip and didn't want to let down her brands and many Asian
fans," the statement said, apparently serious.

Hilton was arrested last month in Las Vegas, when police found a small amount of
cocaine in her purse. She pleaded guilty Monday to drug possession and
obstructing an officer and was placed on probation for one year. She also must
complete a drug program, pay a $2,000 fine and serve 200 hours of community
service.

MOSS FILES FOR DIVORCE: Court records show "Mad Men" star Elisabeth Moss filed
for divorce from comedian Fred Armisen in Los Angeles after less than a year of
marriage. The actress and the comedian were married in October but separated in
June.

Moss portrays career-oriented Peggy Olson on Emmy-winning "Mad Men." Armisen has
been on "Saturday Night Live" since 2002. People.com reported the couple's work
schedules and long-distance relationship were causes for their split. Us Weekly
reported Tuesday that Moss's ties to Scientology didn't help. "Her religion was
as important to her as their marriage, if not more," an insider said. "He could
not get with it."

They'll be no alien jokes today. Move along.

Armisen, 43, has since moved on with SNL cast member Abby Elliot, 23. The two
have been quietly dating and their relationship is still in "the early stages,"
says a source.

AND WE THOUGHT J-LO WAS THE PROBLEM: A day before "American Idol" announces the
judges for the show's ninth season, Randy Jackson reached a formal agreement to
return to the show, according to the Today Show website.

A source with knowledge of the agreement said "it's a multiyear deal." Reps for
"Idol" wouldn't comment, saying only, "We'll make official announcements at the
news conference." That happens at noon today.

The source wouldn't say what took so long to negotiate Jackson's deal. However,
it's rumored that it took some time to come to an agreement regarding salary. If
Jennifer Lopez does get what's rumored to be $12 million to join the show, that
would put her in a salary range far greater than what Jackson was making,
according to several people familiar with his original deal.

That said, there might be an agreement but the ink is not dry. "The deal is done
in principle, it's just waiting to be papered," said the source.

1776: During the Revolutionary War, Capt. the British hanged Nathan Hale, 21, as
a spy in New York. 1862: President Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary
Emancipation Proclamation, declaring all slaves in rebel states should be free
as of Jan. 1, 1863. 1927: Gene Tunney successfully defended his heavyweight
boxing title against Jack Dempsey in the famous "long-count" fight in Chicago.
1960: The independent Republic of Mali was proclaimed. 1964: The musical
"Fiddler on the Roof" opened on Broadway, beginning a run of 3,242 performances.
1975: Sara Jane Moore attempted to shoot President Gerald R. Ford outside a San
Francisco hotel, but missed. (Moore served 32 years in prison before being
paroled Dec. 31, 2007.) 1980: The conflict between Iran and Iraq erupted into
full-scale war lasting nearly eight years. 1985: Rock and country music artists
participated in "FarmAid," a concert staged in Champaign, Ill. to help the
nation's farmers. 1989: Songwriter Irving Berlin died in New York City at age
101.

BIRTHDAYS

Baseball Hall of Fame manager Tommy Lasorda (83), NBA Commissioner David Stern
(68), musician King Sunny Ade (64), rock singer David Coverdale of Deep Purple
and Whitesnake (59), singer Debby Boone (54), country singer June Forester of
The Forester Sisters (54), singer Nick Cave (53), rock singer Johnette
Napolitano (53), classical crossover singer Andrea Bocelli (52), singer-musician
Joan Jett (52), actress Catherine Oxenberg (49), actor Scott Baio (49), rock
musician Matt Sharp (41), rock musician Dave Hernandez of the Shins (40), R&B
singer Big Rube of Society of Soul (39), actor Tom Felton (23).

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 3, 2011 Monday

Opinion: Threats to immigrants' rights will grow in 2011

BYLINE: By Angelica Salas Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 642 words


California voters sent a strong message this past election that we want
hardworking, inclusive and responsive governance, not buck-passing and
scapegoating.

Even some candidates who won seem to have missed the memo. Immigrant families
and our growing coalition of supporters stand ready to remind them.

Two recently re-elected Northern California congressmen, Dan Lungren and Tom
McClintock, announced last month that they will join a quest to change the U.S.
Constitution to deny citizenship to babies born on American soil.

The 150-year-old standard has served our country well. Aides to former president
George W. Bush agree, noting that it was Republicans after the Civil War who
added the guarantee to the nation's charter as part of the 14th Amendment.

Those focused now on overturning it are ignoring voters' demands to create jobs
and fix the economy.

Lashing out by the anti-immigrant crowd would be just a sideshow if it lacked
the threat of federal power.

Iowan Steve King, leader of the amendment crusade in the House, is set to become
chairman of the House immigration subcommittee when Republicans gain the
majority in Congress next month.

King once held up barbed wire during debate on the House floor and compared
immigrants without documents to wayward livestock.

Attacks on immigrant families and our human rights aren't limited to the federal
arena. New California Assemblyman Tim Donnelly made it to Sacramento touting his
involvement in the vigilante patrol group the Minutemen.

He used an appearance with Arizona sheriff and crackdown promoter Joe Arpaio to
appeal to voters in the 59th District outside Los Angeles.

Donnelly wants to import Arizona's "show-me-your-papers" anti-immigrant law to
our state. Foes of fair treatment for newcomers in California have filed a
statewide ballot measure for 2012 with a similar aim.

They mean to instill fear in immigrants and our supporters. But they should heed
a warning themselves. In my travels from Crescent City to Calexico, no issue has
united students, parents, administrators, faith leaders, police officers, union
activists and business owners the way that opposition to the Arizona policy has.

Roundups and racial profiling are costly, cruel and counterproductive approaches
to controlling immigration.

They defy common sense and constitutional rights. And they distract from
comprehensive federal immigration reform, which is overdue in Congress and needs
to pass now.

Repeating Arizona's mistake in California isn't just backward. In a state where
immigrants and our allies are gaining a proud, sometimes pivotal, voice in
elections, it's bad politics.

And there's a new means of accountability at the ballot box. Passage by
California voters in June of Proposition 14 could mean that starting in 2012,
the top two finishers in a primary election, regardless of party, will advance
to a fall showdown.

Donnelly barely scraped by in a heavily contested Republican primary.

He might fare differently in a one-on-one contest with a more moderate
conservative rival who has broad appeal.

Republicans who listen to the needs of immigrant families and reach across party
lines to pass fair and sensible laws may be an endangered breed in other states.

But under the new top-two system, they could find new traction in California.

So will nonpartisan candidates, at the municipal, county, school and water
district level, who proactively include immigrant families in their campaigns
and priorities.

Intolerance is not deterring leaders who respect the rights and contributions of
immigrant families.

Rather, it is spurring us to public service, greater scrutiny and accountability
for our opponents' actions, and seats at the table in governing our state.

ANGELICA SALAS is board chair of the Californians for Humane Immigrant Rights
Leadership and Action Fund. She wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday

Tri-Valley University called 'sham,' accused of immigration fraud

BYLINE: By Sophia Kazmi skazmi@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 443 words


PLEASANTON -- A Pleasanton university that catered to mostly online students is
being called a sham by federal prosecutors who say the university was a front to
illegally provide immigration status to foreign nationals.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on Wednesday were at the Tri-Valley
University campus on Boulder Court in Pleasanton and executed search warrants at
three other properties owned by school founder Susan Su, including one in the
gated Ruby Hill community.

The complaint, filed by the U.S. District Attorney's Office on Wednesday, claims
Su was part of an elaborate scheme to defraud, using false statements and
misrepresentations to the Department of Homeland Security.

"Since its inception ... Tri-Valley University has been a sham university, which
Su, and others, have used to facilitate foreign nationals in illegally acquiring
student immigration status that authorizes them to remain in the United States,"
the complaint reads.

According to the complaint, Su and Tri-Valley University have made millions of
dollars in tuition fees for issuing the visa-related documents, enabling foreign
nationals to obtain illegal student immigration status.

Calls to Tri-Valley University were not returned.

ICE began its investigation in May 2010. The institution received is approval to
issue visas in February 2009 and had the approval for about 30 students. In May
2009 the school had 11 active students that had received F-1 visas, and 939 by
May 2010.

According to the complaint, more than 95 percent of students were from India.
For more than half of them, the university reported their address was a single
apartment in Sunnyvale. The apartment manager told ICE agents that four
university students lived there from June 2007 to August 2009 and none since.

Investigators believe TVU reported that most of its students live at the
apartment to conceal they don't live in the state.

For a student to maintain the immigration status, they must show proof they are
making reasonable process toward completing coursework and physically attend
classes.

One of the school's professors, who did not want his name used, said Thursday he
was shocked by the investigation. He said he taught online courses out of his
home since 2009 and he said his experience with the university has been
positive.

"I teach high quality courses and my students are good students and that's all I
can tell you," he said.

He said classes were supposed to restart Jan. 10 after winter break, but there
was a delay. He said he got an email from Su on Thursday that said classes would
begin soon.

Contact Sophia Kazmi at 925-847-2122. Follow her at Twitter.com/sophiakazmi .

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

Frustration over Pleasanton university's closure spreads to India

BYLINE: By Robert Jordan Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 670 words


PLEASANTON -- Frustration over the closure of a Pleasanton-based university that
federal authorities have called a sham spilled over internationally to India on
Friday.

Activists from the All India Students Federation staged a protest outside the
office of the U.S. Consul General in Hyderabad. Members, who clashed with police
and tried to break into the consulate grounds, asked the government to help and
protect the 1,555 students of Tri-Valley University -- a majority of whom are
from that region of India, according to Indian news reports.

On Jan. 20, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents raided the
Tri-Valley University campus on Boulder Court in Pleasanton and executed search
warrants at three other properties owned by school founder Susan Su.

A day earlier, the U.S. Attorney General's Office filed a civil complaint
against Su, claiming she was part of a scheme to defraud, using false statements
and misrepresentations to the Department of Homeland Security.

The complaint says Su had made millions of dollars in tuition fees for issuing
visa-related documents that enabled foreign nationals to obtain illegal student
immigration status.

School offices are closed and classes that were to begin after the holidays have
not started.

Students, who pay about $2,700 per semester, have been left uncertain about
their immigration status and future education options. The majority of the
school's classes are done online and students are located all over the country.

Ninety percent of the school's students are from India said Jayaram Komati,
president of the Telugu Association of North America.

A Milpitas resident, Komati said his organization, which began 35 years ago and
has 20,000 members nationwide, got involved shortly after the raid because the
majority of the school's Indian students are from Andhra Pradesh, the fourth
largest state in southeast India and where the language Telugu is spoken.

"Ultimately, we want to protect the kids within the boundaries of the law," he
said. "They are not here to break the law. This is no fault of the students. It
is the university not living up to the norms of society."

Komati advised students attending Tri-Valley University to seek immigration
advice from an immigration attorney. His organization posted a notice and
contact information for Santa Clara-based immigration attorney Kalpana
Peddibhotla on what steps students could take. A call to Peddibhotla's office
was not returned.

Komati said that a number of students have already been interviewed by ICE
agents, most have been questioned and released but he said a few have been
required to wear ankle bracelets.

ICE officials could not comment on the case, stating the only information
available was what was available in the civil complaint filed Jan. 19. However,
ICE did provide an e-mail address and telephone number that only students may
use to contact immigration officials.

The protest in India came a day after a group of Indian students met with
Susmita Gongulee Thomas, consul general of India in San Francisco, to discuss
the closure and the limbo status of the school's 1,555 students, Komati said.

A message on the consulate's website said that on behalf of the students the
consulate was taking up the matter with the correct authorities to seek
admission to another university or to "go back honorably to India."

A call to the consulate and the U.S. District Attorney's Office were not
returned.

The Associated Press also contributed to this report. Robert Jordan covers
Dublin and Pleasanton. Contact him at 925-847-2184.

Uncertain status

Students who attend Tri-Valley University and have question about their
immigration status are encouraged by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials to either e-mail or call that department. Students may call
415-844-5320 and leave a message, or they can e-mail SFRHSIFraud@dhs.gov .
The Telugu Association of North America also has resources including an
immigration attorney students can contact at www.tana.org or by calling
408-649-5757.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 30, 2011 Sunday

San Francisco court a beacon for refugees

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1554 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Clad in combat boots, tight jeans and black jackets, a gang of
skinheads cornered the university student outside a Moscow subway station three
summers ago, shouted racist slurs and beat him up.

The former Moscow student testified about the violence last month in the
downtown San Francisco courtroom of federal Judge Dana Leigh Marks. He spoke for
more than two hours about nationalist thugs and corrupt police, and the judge
listened carefully, probing for a detailed account of his alleged persecution.

The testimony was among more than 10,000 pleas for political asylum that Marks
and 14 other immigration judges in the Northern California court have heard, and
ruled on, since 2008.

A tall, lanky 22-year-old with Central Asian features, the asylum-seeker was
Russian by birth and nationality, but he hailed from a Buddhist region on the
shores of the Caspian Sea, far from the Russian capital. Some Moscow residents
looked at him and saw a foreigner who did not belong.

"The society in Russia has turned against the people who came there who are not
Russian," he testified. "There is a strong xenophobia there now."

Asylum-seekers lob allegations of persecution against foreign powers almost
every day in San Francisco's immigration court, one of the nation's busiest and
most backlogged. The court covers a populous Northern California region
stretching from Bakersfield to the Oregon border, but its caseload involves
political, ethnic and religious conflicts that span the globe.

Those accused of being the oppressors -- dictators, armies, corrupt police,
guerrillas, paramilitaries, mobs and fanatical groups -- never hear the
allegations against them. But by granting a person political asylum in the
United States, a judge has ruled that the stories are believable and that the
immigrant has a credible fear of persecution.

Time-consuming cases

Housed in two nondescript high-rise buildings on Montgomery and Sansome streets,
the region's immigration courts are well-known to immigrants and their lawyers,
but barely noticeable to the crowds of suited Financial District workers who
hurry past them. Some immigrants arrive at the courts in shackles after being
detained by immigration agents. Others arrive on their own after getting a
summons in the mail.

Immigrants, both asylum-seekers and otherwise, wait an average of 441 days
before their cases are resolved in the San Francisco court, the longest wait
after Los Angeles, according to court records collected and analyzed by
Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a New York-based research group that
has sought to bring more transparency to the courts.

For judges, the load can be overwhelming. Just days before the Dec. 17 hearing
for the Russian's asylum claim, Marks was presiding over her regular packed
calendar of cases in a standing room only courtroom.

"It's like M.A.S.H., and you're doing triage," said Marks, a 1987 appointee who
is the San Francisco court's longest-serving immigration judge.

Most of the cases were continued to another date. Marks told some immigrants
that they would have to come back in May 2013, the earliest available month on
her calendar.

Still, some lawyers say San Francisco's court is more efficient today than it
has been. By the end of the year, the number of judges expanded to 18 from 15.

"It's probably as good as it's ever been, in my experience," said immigration
lawyer Robert Jobe. "It's dramatically improved over the years. When I started
doing this over 20 years ago there were immigration judges literally doing
asylum cases every half-hour."

Asylum cases occupy just part of an immigration judge's caseload, but lawyers
and judges say the cases are usually the most complicated and time-consuming.
The average San Francisco immigration judge decides more than 200 of them
annually, according to records.

For many asylum-seekers, the long wait -- and the cost of getting a lawyer's
help -- is worth the path to a green card. For others, the wait merely delays an
unwanted return to the place they left. Judges in the San Francisco immigration
court denied about 60 percent of the asylum requests they heard in the past
three years, sending thousands of immigrants back to countries they sought to
flee.

One San Francisco judge denied 92 percent of the asylum claims that came before
him between 2008 and 2010. Marks denied 40 percent of cases during that period.

Nationwide, the number of asylum-seekers has dropped, though the number of
applicants who win their cases has grown. The New York clearinghouse researchers
attribute that to another trend -- more asylum-seekers are getting lawyers.

Deciding factors

Each asylum case -- whether it leads to a green card or deportation -- can
require hours of detailed testimony. The stakes are high and the stories
sometimes painful to tell -- and hard to prove.

The judge can make a big difference in the ruling. The clearinghouse found vast
disparities in denial and acceptance rates among judges and variations among
regions, though those discrepancies have decreased since the reports first came
out.

"The immigration courts really didn't like it when we released it," said David
Burnham, co-director of the research group. "But they seem to be dealing with
some of the disparities. We speculate that it's the ability of judges to look at
themselves and what their colleagues are doing."

Country of origin may make the biggest difference. San Francisco's court sees
the highest number of Indian asylum-seekers, most of whom win their cases.
Lawyers say a precedent-setting case in the Northern California courts in the
1990s made it easier for Sikhs to make a case for political asylum in the United
States, but courts in other parts of the country did not follow suit.

Most Salvadoran and Mexican immigrants who seek asylum are denied, in part
because the drug cartel and gang violence that threatens them is not classified
as political persecution. In contrast, the majority of applicants from places
such as Iraq, Eritrea, Myanmar and the former Soviet Union win their cases.

When he arrived in Marks' ninth-floor courtroom on the morning of Dec. 17, the
Russian asylum-seeker, clad in a formal suit, said he felt a little nervous.

He welcomed a reporter at his asylum hearing -- judges typically close such
hearings to the public -- but asked that his name not be published for fear of
reprisal against relatives in Russia.

Marks listened attentively to the young man's testimony and interjected
questions when she wanted more information.

"I know it may be offensive, but I'd like you to tell me exactly the insults
they used," the judge said.

The skinheads called him uzkoglaziy, which means slant-eyed, and churka, a
derogatory term for Russia's ethnic minorities.

He said he was born and raised in Russia's southwestern republic of Kalmykia, a
Buddhist-majority region that has been under Russian control for centuries. Like
many who grew up in the multiethnic periphery of Russia's vast federation, he
had migrated to the Slavic-dominated capital seeking opportunity -- in his case,
a quality university education. He found discrimination instead.

The college student said the subway station beating in Moscow was one of several
times he was slurred and attacked because of his ethnicity, he said at the
hearing. Sometimes skinheads were the perpetrators. Other times, it was law
enforcement. After one attack, police arrived at the scene, detained everyone
and blamed a group of bystanders who tried to protect him -- not the nationalist
skinheads who struck him -- for provoking the violence.

"Police in Russia are turned against the anti-fascists. They catch them, they
arrest them, they put them in prison -- and they support the skinheads," he told
the judge. "They said I'm lying, that it was the anti-fascists who attacked.
They said, 'Because of people like you, uzkoglaziy, our Russian guys are
fighting.' "

A government attorney from Immigration and Customs Enforcement cross-examined
him, asking him to verify places and dates. Clerks worked silently on the
sidelines. A big, yellow clock ticked loudly on the wall above the Russian's
head.

Unrest at home

On the same week he was in court, newspapers reported that Moscow was
experiencing its worst race riots in years. Crowds declared "Russia is for
Russians!" and "Moscow is for Muscovites!" and blamed ethnic minorities for a
street fight that led to a soccer fan's death, according to the reports. Weary
of the wars between Russian soldiers and separatists in the restive Caucasus
region and the terrorism that has its roots in those conflicts, some urban
Russians have lashed out against the minorities, according to international
reports.

The San Francisco asylum-seeker, however, didn't have to worry about that
anymore.

The hearing began at 9 and ended at 11:16 a.m., when Marks announced she was
granting him political asylum. She determined, based on his testimony and a ream
of documents, including news reports, that he had a well-founded fear of
persecution in his homeland. It was one of more than 600 asylum cases the judge
has handled since 2008, but for the man on the other side of the bench, it was a
life-changing moment. The ruling means he can permanently reside in the United
States.

"Thank you very much," the man said, smiling for the first time since he entered
the courtroom.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday

Tri-Valley University probe has some foreign students fearful of deportation

BYLINE: By Sophia Kazmi Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 815 words


PLEASANTON -- A woman broke down in Shah Peerally's office. She feared what was
going to happen to her, Peerally said. Her sobs were so uncontrollable, the
Newark immigration attorney thought she would faint.

The woman is a student at Pleasanton-based Tri-Valley University, which is being
investigated by the federal government for possible fraud. Though authorities
are not saying much about the investigation, many foreign students have been
left in limbo about their status in this country as well as the status of their
student credits.

Peerally has had more than 300 calls seeking advice since news of the
investigation by Immigration and Customs Enforcement broke Jan. 19.

The college's president said no laws have been broken, but Peerally said
students, many of whom have never had so much as a traffic ticket, now fear
interrogation by federal agents or even deportation.

"It's not fair," he said. "They are being punished for something they did not
know about."

Peerally said the foreign students -- 95 percent from India -- attended
Tri-Valley University because they thought it was a good deal at $2,700 a
semester and it was approved for foreign students. As of Thursday, the school
was still on ICE's list of schools approved for foreigners.

A statement from the State Department said some of those involved in the
Tri-Valley University investigation have been issued ankle bracelet monitors,
but did not specify how many people are being tracked.

According to a civil complaint filed Jan. 19 by the U.S. Attorney's Office
seeking the school's forfeiture of five properties in Pleasanton and Livermore,
the college had sent fraudulent information so it could illegally sponsor
foreign students, thereby allowing them to enter the United States. The
complaint calls Tri-Valley University a "sham."

Two weeks ago, agents executed search warrants at the Pleasanton home of Susan
Xiao-Ping Su, the university's founder and president. Su said this week that the
mainly online school, which did not restart as scheduled after the holidays, is
back in session and students don't have to pay spring tuition. She said her
school, which opened March 17, 2008, has not broken any laws.

"We are following every single rule," Su said by phone.

In the university's response to the federal complaint, it states that of the
5,000 Tri-Valley University students, 1,555 are international students, 140 of
whom applied for visas through the school. The response takes offense to the
"sham" statement by federal prosecutors.

Su said she has been aware of the ICE investigation for a year. She said it was
prompted by false statements given by two former students angry for being fired
from their administration jobs and dismissed from the school.

The complaint response said the former students had foreign student applicants
pay tuition money to a personal account in exchange for student visa-related
documents and for a type of employment authorization to allow them to work while
attending school.

"We believe that ICE agents have committed adultery with the real criminal and
misled by the vicious wrong accusation by the two criminals to conduct such a
'Sham' act," the written response states.

On Jan. 19, the university was denied recognition by the state Department of
Consumer Affairs because it had not been accredited by a recognized agency.
According to its website, Tri-Valley University was accredited by the
International Association of Bible Colleges and Seminaries.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for ICE, said Thursday that the agency had taken
action to require Tri-Valley University to withdraw from the Student Exchange
and Visitors Information Program, barring it from enrolling foreign students.
The school has 30 days to respond and request an interview to contest the
action.

Michael Wildes, a New York-based immigration attorney who once was a federal
prosecutor, said "sham" schools exist.

"The government is ferreting out the schools that don't comply and making an
example out of them," Wildes said.

News of the Tri-Valley University probe has been widely covered by the media in
India, where news of the investigation sparked a protest last week in Hyderabad.

India's Ministry of External Affairs issued a statement last week, stating it
has a serious concern about the federal investigation's impact on Indian
students.

"We have "... asked the U.S. government to provide us full information on the
affected students and keep us informed as the investigation unfolds, as well as
on the action being taken against the promoters of the university and others
involved in perpetrating the fraud," the statement said.

Contact Sophia Kazmi at 925-847-2122. Follow her at Twitter.com/sophiakazmi .

Help for students

The Indian consulate in San Francisco will hold a free legal advice session for
affected students Saturday. The time and place have not been posted. For
details, go to www.cgisf.org .

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 3, 2011 Thursday

Concord/Clayton Digest

BYLINE: Staff report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Digest

On immigration

n

"Immigration Reform: Can We Ever Get it Right?" 2-3 p.m. Feb. 9, Cal State East
Bay, Concord Campus, Oak Room, 4700 Ygnacio Valley Road. Richard Boswell,
immigration law expert, UC Hastings School of Law, San Francisco is speaker.
Presented by League of Women Voters Diablo Valley, CSUEB Scholar-Olli. $5. Free
for Scholar-Olli members. Register, www.scholarolli.com , 925-602-6776.

Genealogy speaker

n

Contra Costa Genealogy Society, 7:30 p.m. Feb. 10, LDS Church, 1360 Alberta Way,
Concord. John A. Kiebel, author of "Behind the Barbed Wire," discusses history
of Naval Weapons Station. cccgs@gmail.com .

Pancake breakfast

n

Boy Scouts Troop 465 hosts pancake breakfast, 8-11 a.m. Feb. 27, Concord United
Methodist Church, 1645 West St. Pancakes, sausage, juice, coffee. $5 adults, $3
for 12 and younger. Proceeds go to Concord United Methodist Church, sponsors of
Troop 465. Shandra, 925-827-5706.

Winter Watercolors

n

Clayton Community Library, 6125 Clayton Road, with Creekside Artists Guild,
presents a hands-on art program focusing on watercolor techniques: plein air
landscape, 10 a.m. Feb. 26, all levels; study of shadow and light, 10 a.m. March
19, experienced students only. Attend one or all classes. Space limited. For
ages 17 and older. www.claytonlibrary.org .

Crab feeds

n

Greater Concord Chamber of Commerce crab feed, pasta dinner and auction, Feb.
18, Centre Concord, 5298 Clayton Road. Registration and silent auction 5:30
p.m., dinner 7 p.m. $40 per person before Feb. 4, after $45. Register,
925-685-1181, www.concordchamber.com .

n

Knights of Columbus, Concord Council 6038 crab feed, 6 p.m. Feb. 5, St.
Bonaventure Large Hall, 5562 Clayton Road, Concord. Crab, pasta, salad, garlic
bread, dessert, or steak and vegetable by special order, hosted bar. Bring crab
utensils. $38. Purchase after Saturday, Sunday Masses or at church office, or
call 925-674-0920, 925-685-9547, 925-685-0573, 925-673-8564.

n

Annual crab feed benefits programs at Mt. Diablo Center for Adult Day Health
Care, Feb. 12, Pleasant Hill Community Center, 320 Civic Drive. 6 p.m. social
hour, 7 p.m. dinner. Crab, pasta, salad, dessert, alternate chicken dinner
available. $40 each. Four raffle tickets $10. Nubia, 925-682-6330, ext. 102.
Donations to auction and/or raffle, 925-682-6330, ext. 111.

Donate formals

n

Donate new, "nearly new" prom dresses to Princess Project, providing formal
dresses to high school girls who cannot afford them. Bring dresses, accessories
to: The Bar Method, 1946A Mt. Diablo Blvd., Walnut Creek or Selix Formalwear,
951 Contra Costa Blvd., Pleasant Hill. Donation guidelines,
www.princessproject.org/donate/dresses-accessories /.

Wild at Lindsay

n

Lindsay Wildlife Museum's Wild Valentine's Weekend, Feb. 12-13, 1931 First Ave.,
Walnut Creek. Outstanding Owls: 11 a.m., 2 p.m.; Wildlife Families: 11:30 a.m.,
1:30 p.m., 3 p.m.; Craft Times: 11 a.m.-2 p.m. and 2:30-3:30 p.m. Purchase
valentines for animals all weekend for $1 donation. Museum's regular weekend
programs also offered. Programs free with regular admission. $7 adults; $6
seniors, students (18, older with student ID); $5 for 2-17.
www.wildlife-museum.org .

Digest deadline is noon Wednesday at least two weeks before publication.

Puppet show


     ·    Concord Library, Friends group present The Puppet Company performing
          Sorcerer's Apprentice, 7 p.m. Feb. 7, 2900 Salvio St. Free.
          925-646-5455.


Digest deadline is noon Wednesday at least two weeks before publication. Items
included on space-available basis; not all items published. E-mail
transcript@bayareanewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 23, 2011 Wednesday

More immigrant restrictions planned

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words


PHOENIX -- Arizona lawmakers are proposing a sweeping package of immigration
restrictions that might make the controversial measures the state approved last
year, which the Obama administration went to court to block from taking effect,
look mild.

Immigrants would be banned from enrolling in school, from driving anywhere in
the state and from receiving most public benefits. The offspring of illegal
immigrants would receive special birth certificates that would make clear that
the state does not consider them Arizona citizens.

Some of the bills, like those restricting immigrants' access to schooling and
right to state citizenship, flout current federal law and are being put forward
to draw legal challenges in hopes that the Supreme Court might rule in the
state's favor.

Arizona drew scorn last year when it passed legislation compelling police
officers to inquire about the immigration status of those they stopped whom they
suspected were in the country illegally. Critics said the law would lead to
racial profiling of Latinos, and a federal judge agreed that portions of the
law, known as Senate Bill 1070, were unconstitutional.

Despite boycotts and accusations that the state has become a haven of
intolerance, Arizona won plaudits last year from immigration hardliners across
the country. On Tuesday night, the Indiana Senate voted to allow its police
officers to question people stopped for infractions on their immigration status,
one of numerous proposals inspired by Arizona's law.

"If you are ever going to stop this invasion, and it is an invasion, you have to
quit rewarding people for breaking those laws," said Arizona Senate President
Russell Pearce, who is leading his state's effort to try to make life so
difficult for illegal immigrants that they stop coming, or leave.

Opponents said the changes were a drastic rewriting of the core values of the
country. In Tucson, a community group was so enraged by what it called the
extremist nature of the proposals from Phoenix that it proposed severing the
state in two, creating what some call Baja Arizona.

The measures would compel school officials to ask for proof of citizenship for
students and require hospitals to similarly ask for papers for those receiving
nonemergency care. Illegal immigrants would be blocked from obtaining any state
licenses, including those for marriage. Landlords would be forced to evict the
entire family from public housing if one illegal immigrant were found living in
a unit. Illegal immigrants found driving would face 30 days in jail and forfeit
the vehicle to the state.

The measures are not assured of passage. Although Republicans have a majority in
the Legislature, the restrictions on citizenship failed to win approval in the
Judiciary Committee this month, so they were rerouted to the Appropriations
Committee, where they won passage.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 25, 2011 Friday

All of California now linked up to immigration enforcement network

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1226 words


MARTINEZ -- The federal immigration agency has finally linked all California
police agencies to reveal immigrants -- legal or not -- arrested for violating
laws and subject to deportation.

The action, to be announced Friday morning in Southern California, enables U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, to tag arrests and travel to all of
the state's county jails to pick up immigrants accused of committing crimes.

In essence, local police, willingly or not, have become an arm of the federal
immigration agency.

The fingerprints of everyone arrested by local police are now sent automatically
to an electronic database reviewed by ICE, whose agents go to county jails to
pick up immigrants thought to be deportable, including illegal immigrants and
legal immigrants who may have committed a crime.

Since San Diego County became the first in the state to join in spring 2009, and
the 57 other counties gradually followed suit, immigration agents say the
network has helped bring in and deport 32,645 immigrants from California,
including 23,712 who were convicted of a crime.

The program has the support of most of the Bay Area's nine county sheriffs, who
oversee the local jails. More than 6,400 people arrested by Bay Area police
departments have been delivered to ICE custody in the past year.

"It's more consistent. Fewer people are slipping through the cracks," said
Alameda County Sheriff Greg Ahern.

Other local law enforcement leaders contend the program casts too wide a net,
and erodes the relationship between police officers and the communities they are
supposed to protect.

"It's not a program I'm enthusiastic about because an arrest is not a
conviction," said Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus. "It's clear there's a
very, very broad net of people who are getting swept up."

Magnus was surprised by the figures for Contra Costa County, which joined the
network in April and has the Bay Area's highest number of immigration arrests
and deportations. ICE has picked up nearly 2,000 immigrants from the county
jails in Martinez and Richmond since April, and deported 657 of them by the end
of January. Of those already deported, 367 were convicted of a crime.

In the four-month period ending Jan. 31, only Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego
counties had more immigration arrests than Contra Costa.

The Obama administration considers Secure Communities an important tool in
combating illegal immigration, and the program contributed to record-high
deportations in recent years. ICE has described the program as targeting the
"worst of the worst," capturing immigrants who committed crimes -- known as
criminal aliens -- and removing them from the country.

Immigrant advocates say ICE's own data contradicts that argument. Serious
criminals are a minority among the thousands caught through the system and
deported. They point out that 27 percent of the Californians picked up by Secure
Communities have no criminal records and that some were sent to deportation
proceedings for violations as minor as running a stop sign.

"S-Comm has had a chilling effect on immigrants who would like to report crimes
to police, but understandably are afraid to do so," said Angela Chan of the San
Francisco-based Asian Law Caucus.

Marc Rapp, the acting national director of Secure Communities, countered that
ICE prioritizes the people it chooses to pick up, and even those with no
criminal record might be wanted for overstaying a visa or illegally re-entering
the United States after being deported.

"Clearly we're not arresting and removing everyone we receive a match on," Rapp
said.

The network has the support of Gov. Jerry Brown, who as state attorney general
ratified and repeatedly defended the agreement with ICE to launch the network
statewide.

"Some activist groups have come to talk to me about being a part of this. I
simply told them that it's federal law, and we comply," said Ahern, the Alameda
County sheriff. "And it was the opinion of then-Attorney General Brown that it
was just for public safety, and the interest of justice."

Ahern said Alameda County's jails in Dublin and Oakland have long checked
inmates' immigrant status. Previously, however, "we had to manually scan
documents of people we suspected were foreign-born," he said.

All of the Bay Area counties joined Secure Communities last year, though two --
San Francisco and Santa Clara -- resisted. They eventually were told they had no
choice because the state had an agreement with ICE. This week, six rural
Northern California counties -- Alpine, Del Norte, Lassen, Sierra, Siskiyou and
Trinity -- became the last of California's 58 counties to link up. The agency
plans have to Secure Communities activated nationwide by 2013.

Criticism of the program, especially in the Bay Area, caused consternation among
federal immigration officials, according to internal ICE e-mails made public
last week.

In May last year, responding to questions raised in Santa Clara, one ICE
official wrote of "defusing the situation before it escalates," and another
wrote that Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, "is up in arms about this," according
to e-mails obtained by a group called Uncover the Truth, which opposes the
Secure Communities program.

A branch official with ICE, after giving Santa Clara authorities a more detailed
explanation of the program, e-mailed that "our sense was that they were looking
for political cover." But local officials continued to fight back, and other
states and cities across the country increasingly were joining them.

Amid months of hand-wringing discussions, ICE tried to rework its national
message about the program, and also sought to harden the federal government's
arguments about the program being mandatory. In one undated document that is
described as a "guide to handling sensitive jurisdictions," ICE officials were
advised to create a "ring of interoperability" around local governments that
resist Secure Communities, pressuring the detractors to join their neighbors.

"Deliberative, internal correspondence should not be confused for final policy,"
ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said in a statement about the released documents.
"Because Secure Communities is fundamentally an information sharing partnership
between federal agencies, state and local jurisdictions cannot opt out from the
program, though state and local jurisdictions can opt not to receive the results
of immigration queries."

The top-down process has frustrated some law enforcement leaders.

"Local communities have been largely left out of the decision-making," said
Magnus, the Richmond police chief. "The way that this has been rolled out
nationally has not been done in a particularly open or transparent way, and
there has not been a really thoughtful discussion about the unintended
consequences."

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, introduced a bill Feb. 18 that would
force California to reconsider the language of its agreement with ICE. Ammiano
wants cities and counties to be able to opt in or opt out, and also wants more
statewide protections preventing domestic violence victims and other vulnerable
immigrants from being taken into federal custody.

"California was one of the earliest states to sign on to it, but their
memorandum is very generic," Ammiano said. "What we've agreed to in California
is basically a boilerplate without any protections."


 ecct0223scommMAP

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 13, 2011 Sunday

Opinion: California can lead on immigration reform by passing the Dream Act

BYLINE: By Gil Cedillo Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 615 words


This Tuesday, two visions about the future of immigrants, California and the
nation will be debated in the Assembly Higher Education Committee in Sacramento.
Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Claremont, and I will present starkly different
proposals for how to treat immigrants who were brought to California at an early
age and now want to achieve educational success.

I will propose that through the California Dream Act and AB 130, we allow
undocumented students to apply for higher education financial assistance.
Donnelly will argue for the repeal of AB 540, the law that allows undocumented
students to pay in-state tuition at our colleges and universities. But what we
will really be discussing is two different ways of interpreting our history, our
economic philosophies and our moral calculus.

My goal at the hearing will be to make a fact-based argument that undocumented
students who want to become doctors, architects and engineers should be allowed
to apply for financial aid.

A paradox of our political culture is that while being uniquely a nation of
immigrants, we are also a nation of immigration restrictionists. We proclaim
that we are "Proud to be Irish," or Polish, or Italian, but immigration policy
throughout our history has often been shaped by racism, fears of foreign
influence, the anxiety generated from economic downturns and by political
opportunism.

At the Tuesday hearing, I will argue that immigrants have been largely a source
of strength for our country and state. They have contributed to our economy with
their labor and their taxes, and they have strengthened our communities with the
fundamentally American values of hard work and family loyalty.

At the hearing will be students hoping to be scientists, attorneys and
economists. Others want to start their own businesses. Still others yearn to
take care of others by becoming doctors, nurses or teachers. A central theme of
their testimony will be that they simply want to fulfill their God given talents
and make a contribution to the communities they live in.

Aside from being ambitious and successful, these students have other things in
common. They were brought to California by their parents at a very young age and
through no choice of their own. Contrary to the myths held about immigrants,
they learned English, embraced our culture, worked hard and graduated from
California high schools.

Unlike other college students, they can't leave the country to visit the
historical sites of Europe or the rich cultures of the Far East. And they can't
apply for college financial aid. With AB 130, we can offer them a chance to
achieve the California Dream and the American Dream.

Our diminished moral vision holds these students back. As University of
California President Mark Yudof recently stated, "The outstanding
accomplishments of these leaders of tomorrow should not be disregarded nor their
future jeopardized simply because of their legal status."

Some argue that undocumented students are "taking away" from citizens. But their
fellow students regard their presence as enhancing their academic experience.
They are an inspiration to their classmates of energy and drive.

Ultimately AB 130 will pass the Legislature and will end up on Gov. Jerry
Brown's desk. I believe the governor will sign the bill and once again place
California in a position of national leadership on one of the most crucial
economic and moral issues of our day. While many other states head backward in
time, California will be blazing a path toward the future.

GIL CEDILLO of Los Angeles represents the 45th Assembly District and is the
principal author of AB 130, The California Dream Act. He wrote this article for
this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

San Jose: Chief says local cops shouldn't be involved in immigration enforcement

BYLINE: By Sean Webby swebby@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 570 words


As some states such as Utah look to put cops on the front lines of immigration
enforcement, San Jose Police Chief Chris Moore and other prominent law
enforcement officials warned Wednesday that using their shrinking pool of
officers to

"I am looking at laying off 300 officers, so now more than ever I need to focus
on partnerships with communities," Moore said during a national teleconference
sponsored by the Police Executive Research Forum. "This (the issue of
immigration enforcement) has become a wedge in our communities and we need to
remove that wedge."

The teleconference was part of a larger public effort by some high-profile
police executives to communicate to political leaders and the public that the
increasing calls for more aggressive and local immigration enforcement efforts
could adversely affect them.

The officials noted, in particular, immigration crackdowns in Arizona and Utah
and other proposals that seek to have local law enforcement enforce immigration
laws, primarily a federal function.

Looking to reassure its own large and growing Latino community, San Jose has
long broadcast that it does not participate in immigration raids. And officers
are ordered not to investigate someone's immigration status during arrests.

San Jose police officers are looking to greatly improve its frayed relationship
with immigrant communities amid allegations of overaggressive policing and
racial profiling. Moore, for example, has in his short tenure as chief
discontinued a policy in which cars of unlicensed drivers stopped for minor
traffic violations were impounded for a month -- a policy many felt unfairly
targeted the undocumented Latino community.

"I was very, very concerned of people being afraid of us," said Moore, who has
put great stock in community cooperation as a major factor in the city's
comparative safety. "So I decided to look into policies that will help lessen
some of that fear. All of us as chiefs need to see where we can strengthen the
relationships with our communities and not weaken them."

But Barbara Coe, founder of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform, an
aggressively anti-illegal immigration advocacy group based in Huntington Beach,
said illegal immigrants are not scared of police, they were scared of criminal
illegal immigrants.

And Moore's ideas about drawing a clear distinction between local law
enforcement's mission to keep the public safe and federal enforcement of
immigration laws, Coe said, are "hot air."

"Immigration enforcement should come from the federal government right down to
the local level,'' Coe said. "They all took an oath of office with their hands
on the Bible that they would enforce all the laws of our country."

Chuck Wexler, executive director of the police forum, said immigration had
become a defining issue for police chiefs like Moore.

"They have to navigate between two very vocal factions," Wexler said. "But the
guiding principle should be that police must maintain the confidence of all
community members. Nobody should be afraid to contact the police."

Poncho Guevara, director of Sacred Heart Community Service in San Jose, said the
community was "cautiously optimistic" at Moore's efforts to ease fears that
local police were looking to deport people.

"It's going to take some trust-building measures," Guevara said. "This is a
group in our community that has been demonized for decades."

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

17 years for ex-immigration lawyer

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


LOS ANGELES -- A former Immigration and Customs Enforcement attorney was
sentenced Monday to more than 17 years in prison for pocketing hundreds of
thousands of dollars in bribes to create fake documents for immigrants in a
scheme prosecutors described as an epic display of a public official's greed.

Constantine Kallas, a one-time assistant chief counsel for ICE, was also ordered
by U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter to pay $296,000 in restitution after being
convicted last year of 36 counts, including conspiracy, bribery and fraud.
Prosecutors said Kallas and his wife, Maria Kallas, carried out the elaborate
scheme between 2003 and 2008 by setting up two companies to file false paperwork
claiming the immigrants had job offers to work in this country.

Video footage provided by prosecutors showed a smiling Constantine Kallas taking
$20,000 in cash from a man at a California casino and shoving it in his pocket
amid the din of slot machines.

"He was a prosecutor and he engaged in a conspiracy with the people he was
charged to prosecute," Assistant U.S. Attorney Raymond Aghaian said outside
court.

During a search of Kallas' home, authorities found 24 immigration files hidden
in a floor safe and a detailed payment ledger with the names of 60 different
people. They also found $177,500 in cash, authorities said.

In one instance, Kallas took a $7,000 bribe from his housekeeper and convinced
an immigration judge to halt the deportation of her daughter by claiming she had
agreed to be a witness on another case, court papers show. The Alta Loma couple
banked about $950,000 before their arrests in 2008, with at least $425,000 of
that amount coming from bribes, authorities said.

Prosecutors said it was a relatively long sentence for a federal case dealing
with the corruption of federal or local officials.

Attorney Dean Steward, who represents Constantine Kallas, said he thought the
sentence of 17 years and eight months was too severe.

"For a white-collar case it's an exceptionally harsh sentence," Steward said.
"I've worked homicide cases where the defendant didn't get 17 years."

Maria Kallas pleaded guilty in 2009 to conspiracy, bribery and conspiracy to
commit money laundering. She is scheduled to be sentenced May 2.

The restitution will help cover workers' compensation payments that Kallas
received during leave from ICE due to a purported injury while he was
simultaneously accepting bribes, Aghaian said.

Hatter closed the sentencing hearing at Kallas' request.

Steward said his client was threatened by fellow inmates when his case
previously appeared in the news and he wound up in solitary confinement.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 24, 2011 Thursday

Shut down of illegal maternity ward elicits differing responses from lawmakers

BYLINE: By Adolfo Flores San Gabriel Valley Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; State

LENGTH: 757 words


SAN GABRIEL -- The discovery of an illegally-converted townhouse catering to
Asian maternity tourists prompted local legislators Wednesday to discuss the
enforcement of immigration law.

But while state Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Claremont urged changes to the U.S.
Constitution's 14th Amendment, Rep. Judy Chu, D-El Monte, called for a
comprehensive local approach to the problem.

"People can come here on a Visa and circumvent immigration laws ... what about
those folks that wait in line?" Donnelly said. "It's really an issue of do we
want to encourage behavior that undermines the rule of law?"

Donnelly suggested a change to the 14th Amendment, which says "All persons born
or naturalized in the United States ... are citizens of the United States,"
could put a dent in maternity tourism, which takes advantage of gray areas in
the law.

Two weeks ago, San Gabriel officials uncovered a makeshift maternity ward with
10 newborns and about 12 Chinese nationals crammed into an illegally-converted
townhouse, according to documents obtained by this newspaper.

Dwight Chang of Arcadia, who owns the house in the 1300 block of South Palm
Avenue, had been warned twice before for operating a business that primarily
caters to Asian "maternity tourists," officials said.

A city code enforcement team, accompanied by building inspectors and San Gabriel
police officers shut down the operation March 8, and issued a citation to Chang,
documents indicate.

Chu said tighter enforcement of local building codes would prevent what she
described as a deplorable situation from happening.

"The 14th Amendment is fundamental to the U.S. and too important to change
because of the practice of a few," Chu said. "I think the practice is far from
the norm and it would be a severe disservice to our nation if millions of
immigrants are painted with the same brush."

Chu said she expects the House Judiciary Committee to take up a discussion of
proposed changes to the amendment sometime this term.

Donnelly insisted reform needs to take place.

"Changing the 14th Amendment won't just stop birth tourism, but (prevent) people
who come here illegally from getting a foothold in the country. It's an issue of
fundamental fairness," he said.

USC law professor David Cruz said sweeping changes to the Constitution require a
lengthy amendment process, that includes approval by two-thirds of both houses
and three-fourths of state legislatures.

His colleague Niels Frenzen said such a change wouldn't likely stem the tide of
illegal immigration.

"The primary reason people come to this country without legal documents is for
improving and bettering their lives not the acquisition of citizenship for
children," Frenzen said. "I don't think changing the 14th Amendment would make
much of a difference or affect the pull factors to come, it would just result in
the creation of an even larger shadow population." Even if the 14th Amendment is
changed so that it doesn't apply to children of parents who are not in the
country legally it would do little to stop birth tourism, Frenzen said, since
the mothers come here legally.

"My recollection is that Homeland Security previously said it was not a
violation of a tourist visa to give birth here," Frenzen said.

Short of a direct change to the Constitution, lawmakers could pass legislation
intrepreting the 14th Amendment.

"That's an open question as to whether or not a congressional law can interpret
the 14th Amendment," Frenzen said. "That would be much easier to do
legislatively." State Assemblyman Mike Eng, D-Alhambra, said the best solution
lies in comprehensive immigration reform.

"The question would be who would be a U.S. citizen," Eng said. "It's a challenge
and will create more confusion and division. The American people want solutions
not political slogans." San Gabriel Mayor David Gutierrez said the makeshift
maternity ward was likely an isolated incident. He called for strict code
enforcement, but said he understood the motivations of those seeking to give
birth in the United States.

"When we look at the overall disadvantages that some countries still experience
with quality of life and so on you're always going to have those people who will
take the opportunity to provide a better living situation for their children,"
Gutierrez said.

"They should certainly be commended for looking at the future welfare of their
children but we need to be very careful that as a result it doesn't impact
services and quality of life that we provide for U.S. residents."

Contact Adolfo Flores at adolfo.flores@sgvn.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illegal maternity ward A group of townhomes on Palm Avenue in San
Gabriel that were illegally modified into a maternity ward are being repaired by
a construction crew in order to bring them up to code.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Peninsula readers' letters: March 30

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 862 words


Dear Editor: Mountain View police spokeswoman Liz Wylie pronounced that the
police department (doesn't) "care about your immigration status. If you are a
victim of a crime in Mountain View, we are here to help you. ... Our stance has
always been -- and needs to be -- we are here to apply services equally" (March
22, Daily News article, "Police arrest suspected smuggler"). While I believe
people should be protected if they become victims of individual crimes
regardless of nationality, in this case our citizens must also be protected from
institutional crimes if a foreign national is in the United States illegally.

This alleged victim returned to her country and was unable to return here and
continue her illegal status. So her family members conspired to hire a "coyote"
to smuggle her back. She should have learned that once you surrender to
criminals, you forfeit your personal safety, your community and your safety, and
by extension your "adopted" country. Illegal immigrants have not taken an oath
of allegiance to the U.S. so their loyalty is likely elsewhere.

Applying the law unequally is reminiscent of the July 2007 fiasco in which
former Redwood City mayor Barbara Pierce and Sheriff Greg Munks lost perspective
about citizenship. Speaking before 400 people gathered at the First United
Methodist Church in Redwood City, Munks said he will not assist federal
authorities in the enforcement of our laws. "A lot of the trust we built up
(presumably with illegal immigrants) was damaged with the ICE raids. ... I want
you to know that our department will not cooperate with those ICE raids." The
common practice in mutual aid agreements is for the lead agency (ICE) to lead
and for subordinate agencies (sheriff's department) to follow.

There is a difference between compassion and exploitation -- we have a generous,
lawful and modern nation-state immigration policy that encourages accommodation
and assimilation that is representative of our national interest. Illegal
immigrants subvert our policies.

Dear Editor: In his March 24 column, Los Angeles Times columnist Gregory
Rodriguez seems troubled by the recent earthquake and tsunami tragedy in Japan.
He lashes out at the environmental movement with his opening statement, "Maybe
John Muir was a fool."

First he puts environmentalists in one box, which he labels nature before all.
Then he puts architects and developers in another box, which he labels
civilization against nature. I kind of smiled as I imagined Rodriguez's view of
tree huggers walking around in the rain without a hat because rain was natural.
But then I read his views about the Japanese nuclear industry. He praised it as
follows: "Japan's approach no doubt saved many lives."

Personally, I favor the use of nuclear power to generate electricity. I favor
conservative design parameters and robust backup systems to protect the
reactors. We live in a dangerous world and it is not improved by writers
suggesting that John Muir was a fool.

Dear Editor: I have read your readers' concerns about radiation from cell towers
being harmful to their health. To relieve their fears, I propose that the Palo
Alto City Council pass an ordinance banning the use of cellphones within city
limits. This ordinance would also prohibit the sale of cellphones and require
all cell towers to be removed.

This action would protect their health, especially that of their most vulnerable
children, by forbidding the use of cellphones that are usually operated next to
the brain.

Dear Editor: State regulators now plan to fine PG&E $3 million for failing to
turn over natural gas-line safety records, instead of fining it up to $1 million
every day it doesn't turn over those records. So the company now has until Aug.
31 to turn over documents just about its "oldest and most worrisome" pipes.

The Public Utilities Commission's executive director, Paul Clanon, says this
settlement is partly because "we don't want to spend months in litigation."

Well, these records only concern whether or not at this point PG&E's pipes are
safe. What could possibly go wrong?

Dear Editor: Mr. Kemper (Letters, March 24) needs to find his high school civics
textbook. The president is not in charge of the budget. The House of
Representatives passes the budget and the president can sign it or veto the
bill. Most of the time, the president signs the budget.

Everyone should recall that in 1994 the Republicans assumed control of the
House. This is what resulted in the Clinton surplus. In 2006 The Democats
assumed control of the House, which is the timeframe of the majority of the Bush
deficit.

Dear Editor: Where are the thousands of anti-war protesters who clogged the
streets of major metropolitan areas when former president George W. Bush with
almost unanimous congressional approval invaded Iraq? What chutzpah he showed by
not getting approval, as did Obama, from the Arab league.

Could it be that they went to Crawford, Texas, to protest and decided to stay
because of the friendly business environment in Texas and the absence of a state
income tax? Wonder if the number of head shops per capita in Crawford increased.

Query? As much as the palpable hypocrisy of the left.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Book tells of San Jose binational couple and other couples torn apart by
immigration law

BYLINE: By Mary Gottschalk mgottschalk@community-newspapers.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 868 words


Judy Rickard's problem is one she describes as both simple and complex.

"I want to be together with my partner/wife Karin, who is not a U.S. citizen. We
prefer to be together in San Jose, California," says Rickard, who has lived her
entire life here.

"We can't do that legally and we don't want to do it illegally. I want to be
together with Karin, but right now because of American marriage and immigration
laws, I can't.

"It's that simple and it's that complex."

Rickard met Karin Bogliolo on a lesbian dating website in 2005. By January 2006,
following emails and visits, they were in a committed relationship, and Bogliolo
moved from her native England to Rickard's Cambrian area home.

The happily ever after they hoped for became a series of separations as Bogliolo
could only stay in the United States on visas of six months or less, depending
on the whim of the immigration officer on duty whenever she arrived.

Unwilling to endure the separations, Rickard reluctantly took early retirement
from her marketing job at San Jose State University in May 2009, resulting in a
reduced pension. The two spent time traveling in Europe until a family illness
brought them back to San Jose in 2010.

When Bogliolo's visa expired in October 2010, she was forced to leave once
again, but Rickard stayed behind to help nurse her dying brother-in-law and
support her sister.

Distressing as they find their situation, Rickard knows that she and Bogliolo
are not alone or unique.

"There are some 36,000 binational same-sex couples dealing with this, and we
want the law changed so we don't have this discrimination," Rickard says.

If immigration law were amended to include the phrase "or permanent partner"
where the word spouse appears, it would end the enforced separations.

If the "Reuniting Families Act," first introduced in 2000, were to ever come to
a vote and pass, it would allow U.S. citizens and permanent residents to file a
visa petition on behalf of their foreign national same-sex permanent partner for
immigration.

One tool that Rickard hopes will bring about awareness and change the "ifs" into
reality is her newly published book, Torn Apart: United by Love, Divided by Law.

It is a comprehensive look at the subject of same-sex couples, immigration
reform, where it has been and seems to be going, as well as resources, websites
and other pertinent information.

However, what is most likely to enlighten those unfamiliar with the struggle are
the personal stories Rickard has written of 17 other binational lesbian and gay
couples.

One is about Shirley Tan and Jay Mercado, a Pacifica couple together since 1986,
parents of two sons and active in their church, school and community.

In 2009 immigration officials showed up at 6:30 a.m. one morning to handcuff and
take Tan away for deportation to her native Philippines. Mercado and their sons
are U.S. citizens, but Tan is not.

Legislation on their behalf, introduced by Sen. Dianne Feinstein and U.S. Rep.
Jackie Speier, has temporarily delayed deportation efforts but not ended them.

The foreword to Rickard's book is by Elizabeth Gilbert, author of the best
seller Eat, Pray, Love, who writes of her own experiences as a binational couple
arriving in the U.S.

Gilbert's partner was detained for six hours before being told he would be
admitted this time, but not in the future.

Later Gilbert was told if she took the simple step of marrying her partner, he
could then apply for permanent citizenship.

They married and now live in New Jersey, but Gilbert writes she felt it was
"unconscionable" that she could do this "when LGBT families who have been
together 30 years are unable to."

Gilbert, who now works toward immigration reform for lesbian and gay binational
couples, ends her preface: "Until there's fairness on this for everybody, there
is fairness for no one."

Rickard met Gilbert through Immigration Equality, one of the three groups that
Rickard is donating a part of her royalties to. The other two are Love Exiles
and Out4Immigration.

Forced separations and the anxiety of dealing with immigration officials
whenever she enters the U.S. have had a negative affect on Bogliolo's health.

"Three years ago, after having had many years of coming into the U.S., I came
into San Francisco and I was put into a cell and interrogated for hours," she
recalls.

"I was told I had no rights; I couldn't make a phone call; I couldn't even have
a glass of water."

Bogliolo was eventually admitted, but she started having panic attacks and has
been on medication since.

Coming into the U.S. in February, she again experienced a prolonged
interrogation before being allowed to rejoin Rickard.

"It's a toxic situation and I'm in it," Bogliolo says.

"I'm a 70-year-old little old lady doing everything by the book. I have children
in England and Scotland. In Europe we're quite advanced and have same-sex
marriage in most countries.

"I'd like [immigration reform] to happen before I'm dead, if it doesn't kill me
first."

Judy Rickard will be signing copies of Torn Apart: United by Love, Divided by
Law on April 12 from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. at a free reception hosted by BAYMEC in
Campbell. For directions email baymec@gmail.com . The book is also available at
www.findhornpress.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Democrats, Republicans on same side of
immigration debate

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 672 words


SAN DIEGO -- With President Barack Obama and the Democrats stuck in reactive
mode, Republicans are driving most of the serious discussions in Washington.

This includes the debate over the budget, more spending cuts, and whether to
raise the federal debt limit. But it also includes the recurring discussion
about how to enforce the nation's immigration laws and what to do with those who
break them.

Conservatives often castigate Democrats for making people lazy and dependent on
government giveaways as a way of maintaining control over them. They would say
that the only reason congressional Democrats even talk about legalizing
undocumented immigrants is to eventually provide them government benefits and
turn them into what you might call indentured voters.

Let's be clear: Democrats and the White House aren't talking much about
immigration reform to begin with. In fact, they couldn't care less about it. If
Democrats really had immigration reform as a policy priority, they would have
done something about it during the four years they controlled both houses of
Congress. They avoid the issue not just because of the backlash from those who
oppose "amnesty" but because the very debate splits the Democratic coalition.
So, the only thing they're talking about now is the same thing that interests
Republicans -- immigration enforcement.

Having said this, conservatives have a point that social programs and other
entitlements have left some Americans lazy and unproductive. And that's
something for Republicans to keep in mind when they talk about illegal
immigration. After all, who do you think is passing up the jobs that wind up
being done by illegal immigrants? In many cases, it is Americans who have lost
their work ethic and feel entitled to have others do their chores for them. So
while conservatives like to blame this sense of entitlement for the continued
growth of the welfare state, they should also be honest enough to name it as a
contributing factor to the spread of illegal immigration.

Meanwhile, Democrats have seized on the budget battle as an opportunity to draw
a sharp contrast with Republicans. While they were willing to make about $38
billion in spending cuts, Democrats also held the line and resisted deeper cuts
in defense of their priorities. They put a stake in the ground and protected
Planned Parenthood and NPR from Republican efforts to defund both. They talked
about the need to preserve the safety net for the poor and downtrodden.

Democrats did all this, they said, because these were battles worth having.
Instead of trying to emulate Republicans, Democrats fought them head-on.

But on the immigration debate, the left has no courage or, for that matter, much
originality. Their stance on enforcement -- deportation, more Border Patrol
agents, additional surveillance equipment, etc. -- mirrors what the Republicans
have done.

Democrats are in a pickle. They want to appeal to Hispanics, who support a
comprehensive approach that includes earned legal status for the undocumented.
But Democrats cannot afford to be seen as wimps on the issue or they'll lose the
votes of non-Hispanics. So they overcompensate.

President Bill Clinton fell into this trap in 1994 when he launched Operation
Gatekeeper near San Diego to help secure the California-Mexico border. Clinton
did it again two years later when he signed the Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which made it easier for police officers
to enforce federal immigration law and harder for illegal immigrants to fight
their deportation.

And now, Obama is playing the same game. He signed a $600 million border
enforcement bill, and his administration deported nearly 800,000 illegal
immigrants in its first two years.

In the budget debate, Americans benefit from the fact that there are two
distinct parties articulating opposing views and defending different principles.
Too bad they can't say that about the debate over setting the nation's
immigration policy.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 21, 2011 Thursday

Redwood City man who blackmailed relatives sentenced to three years in prison

BYLINE: By Bonnie Eslinger Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 260 words


A Redwood City man who pretended to be a federal immigration official as part of
a scheme to extort $50,000 from half a dozen relatives -- and arrived to pick up
the cash dressed as a clown -- has been sentenced to three years in prison, the
U.S. Department of Justice announced Thursday.

Frank Salvador Solorza, 46, sent letters to six cousins in 2009, claiming to be
a representative of a government immigration agency, according to a statement
from U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag.

The letters demanded money to clear up their immigration status, and threatened
jail time and deportation if $50,000 was not paid.

In phone calls to his victims, Solorza also posed as an immigration official and
demanded cash, according to Haag's statement.

Solorza's victims contacted U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which
arranged a sting operation.

On Feb. 10, 2009, Solorza arrived at the designated pick up spot for the
blackmail money, prosecutors said. He was disguised as a clown and riding a
child's bike when federal officers arrested him, said U.S. Department of Justice
spokesman Josh Eaton.

"He was dressed as a clown. He was not dressed as a federal agent," said Eaton,
who did not know why Solorza was wearing the disguise.

A jury convicted Solorza of two counts of impersonating a federal officer and
one count of conspiracy, among other charges. On Wednesday, a U.S. District
Court judge in Oakland sentenced him to three years in prison and three years of
supervised release, according to Haag's statement.

Email Bonnie Eslinger at beslinger@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 22, 2011 Friday

Arizona-style immigration initiative fizzles in California

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


BELMONT -- A movement to put an Arizona-style immigration measure on the
California ballot in 2012 appears to have fizzled.

Republican activist Michael Erickson gained national attention just before
Thanksgiving when the state approved his gathering of signatures for a ballot
initiative that would crack down on illegal immigration in the state.

It would have required police to check the immigration status of people they
stopped and suspected of being in the country illegally, and it would have
criminalized seeking work while concealing immigration status.

The Belmont resident and his supporters needed 433,971 signatures by Thursday to
put the initiative on the February 2012 ballot. State law requires signatures to
be filed with county registrars, who count them and must deliver them to the
secretary of state by May 3.

But neither Erickson's home county of San Mateo nor several other big counties
in the Bay Area and elsewhere reported any petitions submitted by the Thursday
deadline.

San Mateo County Elections Manager David Tom said Friday his office had not
received petition signatures for Erickson's measure. None were filed in three of
the state's largest counties, Los Angeles County, San Diego County, and Orange
County. Registrars in Alameda, Santa Clara, Sonoma and San Bernardino counties
also said they had not received any petitions.

Erickson, a legal researcher and former chairman of the Sonoma County Republican
Party, drafted the measure, which supporters named the Support Federal
Immigration Law Initiative. It also would have made it a crime for an employer
to hire an undocumented immigrant, intentionally or negligently.

Inspired by Arizona's SB1070 and convinced that California's lawmakers would
never pass such a law, Erickson wanted to take the idea directly to voters.

"Since we're never going to get something like this passed through the
Democrat-controlled Legislature, it's going to be we the people who are going to
make it happen," Erickson said at a Bay Area tea party rally last year,
according to a video of the rally.

Erickson did not return an email request for comment Friday. The phone number
listed on his website was disconnected.

Staff reporter Josh Richman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

Pushing Obama to keep promises

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 911 words


By Matt O'Brien

 mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

OAKLAND -- Reflecting growing liberal frustration with President Barack Obama's
lack of progress on immigration reform, a Democratic congressman from his home
state of Illinois is barnstorming through the Bay Area this week to demand the
administration slow down its record-high number of deportations.



"He's our champion," said U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., who lands in the Bay
Area on Tuesday. "He's the one we want to support. But there's a community of
people he made a promise and commitment to, and we want him to keep it."

Obama continues to get high popularity ratings from Latinos and most immigrant
groups, but Gutierrez is among a growing chorus of immigrant advocates who have
expressed waning enthusiasm as the president launches his re-election campaign.

Gutierrez will visit Redwood City, San Jose, Oakland, San Francisco and St.
Helena on a three-day tour of the region, part of a national campaign called
"Change Takes Courage" that is aimed at pressuring Obama to act urgently on
immigration matters.

With little chance of immigrant-friendly legislation getting through the
Republican-controlled House of Representatives, Gutierrez said Obama should use
his executive power to provide the relief he promised immigrant families during
the 2008 presidential campaign.

"The president of the United States decided one morning that there was genocide
in Libya and he was going to take the side of Libya and that they needed our
help," Gutierrez said. "He didn't ask the Congress. He didn't hold a meeting. He
used the discretion he has."

He can use that same executive discretion to stop detaining undocumented young
people and other vulnerable groups, said Gutierrez, who chairs the immigration
task force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

The Obama administration deported a record-high 392,862 illegal immigrants in
the 2010 fiscal year, and another 387,790, the previous record, in 2009.

The administration has prioritized arresting and deporting people who have
criminal records, using a program called Secure Communities that finds
undocumented immigrants once they are fingerprinted at local jails. All of
California's counties are now part of the database. Advocates point out that
tens of thousands of people without criminal records are also caught in the net.


Twenty-two Democratic senators, including California Sens. Barbara Boxer and
Dianne Feinstein, wrote Obama a letter on April 13 asking him to exercise
"prosecutorial discretion" to defer the deportation of undocumented students.

The letter was a response to last year's congressional defeat of the Dream Act,
a bill that would have provided a path to citizenship to immigrants brought to
the United States illegally before they were 16 and who graduate from high
school and pursue college or military service. The House of Representatives
approved the bill in December but the bill failed to get a filibuster-proof
majority in the Senate.

Immigration officials sometimes defer deportations on a case-by-case basis, but
the senators said they wanted an executive action that would help "all young
people" who meet the Dream Act's rigorous requirements. Opponents have described
such a move as "backdoor amnesty" that ignores the will of Congress.

Obama has made recent statements to Spanish media that immigration reform
remains a priority for his presidency. He met with prominent business and law
enforcement leaders and moderates in a White House meeting about immigration on
April 19. The meeting featured several Californians, including former Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg and the Los Angeles
City Council president. Activists on both sides of the fierce immigration debate
complained they were not at the table.

A readout of the meeting said Obama made it clear that "the only way to fix
what's broken about our immigration system is through legislative action in
Congress."

Gutierrez acknowledges that Obama lent his support to immigration legislation
last year, especially the Dream Act, but said he "could have made it a bigger
priority." Now, he said, "That happened. It's history," and the only possible
relief to many immigrant families is direct action from the president.

Gutierrez made a similar visit to the Bay Area two years ago, stopping at a San
Francisco church and using the podium -- which he shared with then-House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi -- to draw attention to the plight of immigrant families affected
by deportations. This time, he is visiting about 20 cities throughout the
country.

"We've broadened the scope," Gutierrez said. "It's not because I got better at
doing this. It's because the community is better organized and the pain, the
fear, the anger, the disillusionment, is broad."

On Thursday, Gutierrez will stop at St. Helena Church in Napa County before
visiting the Cesar Chavez Education Center in East Oakland. Congress is on
spring break this week.

Napa County vintner Rosaura Segura said she is glad for the Illinois
politician's visit because she does not think her own local repsrentatives, or
Obama, are taking charge of the issue.

"It's unfortunate that under his presidency there have been more deportations
than Bush or the previous presidencies," said Segura, a wine producer and
chairwoman of the Napa Valley Migrant Farmworker Housing Committee. "The
Hispanic community is such that, we're very loyal people, but we voted for a
reason. He made a lot of promises."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 27, 2011 Wednesday

Lawmakers, immigrants speak out at reform rally in Redwood City

BYLINE: By Bonnie Eslinger Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 457 words


The national issue of immigration reform took center stage at a Redwood City
church Tuesday, where a meeting featuring lawmakers and immigrants facing
deportation took on aspects of a political rally and a church service.

The event at St. Peter's Episcopal Church on Clinton Street was part of the
"Campaign for American Children and Families" national meeting tour.

Speakers urged the 200-plus attendees, who were mostly Latino, to register to
vote and sign a petition to prod President Barack Obama to take a stand against
the deportation of illegal immigrants and their children.

U.S. Reps. Anna Eshoo and Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Redwood City Vice Mayor
Alicia Aguirre were among the public officials in attendance.

Local religious leaders started the event with a prayer. "This is a faith
issue," the Rev. Anna Lange-Soto said.

Redwood City resident Andrea Villa, 25, was one of three immigrants who spoke
Tuesday about wanting to stay in the United States because of the opportunities
here.

Villa's mother brought her and her sister from Mexico when she was 5 years old.
The San Jose State University graduate said her family has been working for the
past 10 years to gain residency.

When the family faced deportation earlier this year, Eshoo and Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-Calif., intervened on the family's behalf. The family was granted a
one-year stay to continue its fight to stay in the country, Villa said.

"Yes, I am an illegal immigrant and there are millions like me out there," she
said. "It's frustrating that I've lived here all my life, and yet it can all be
taken away from me based on a birth certificate."

Eshoo told the audience that she supports changes in federal immigration law as
well as the DREAM Act, failed legislation that would've provided immigrant
children with a path to legal residency.

"We are all part of the body of Christ," Eshoo said to applause.

Redwood City Interim Police Chief Ed Hernandez also attended the meeting. After
the event, he said he was invited by organizers to hear community concerns and
did not come to show support for the political message.

Asked about a state bill to let communities opt out of a federal program that
checks the immigration status of arrestees, Hernandez said such matters were
handled through the sheriff's office, which does the jail bookings.

The Redwood City Police Department does not directly provide residency
information to federal immigration officials and does not cooperate with
immigration sweeps in the city, Hernandez said. He added that he thought it was
"good policy."

"If there are people who are afraid to report crime to us because they're afraid
of being deported, there's something wrong," he said.

Email Bonnie Eslinger at beslinger@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Valeria Lorenzo becomes emotional during a testimonial speech
denouncing the deportations of local illegal immigrants at a town hall meeting
in St. PeterÕs Episcopal Church in Redwood City on Tuesday, April 26, 2011.
Lorenzo talked about a deported relative. (Kirstina Sangsahachart/ Daily News)
Jose Cataneda, center, and Chicago Alderman Danny Solis, right, listen to
testimonial's about deportations at a town hall meeting in St. PeterÕs Episcopal
Church in Redwood City on Tuesday, April 26, 2011. (Kirstina Sangsahachart/
Daily News)
U.S. Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, D-Ill., delivers a speech during a town hall
meeting denouncing the deportations of local illegal immigrants at a town hall
meeting in St. PeterÕs Episcopal Church in Redwood City on Tuesday, April 26,
2011. (Kirstina Sangsahachart/ Daily News)
Redwood City Interim Police Chief Ed Hernandez, left, and Carlos Felix, right,
applaud after a speech denouncing the deportations of local illegal immigrants
at a town hall meeting in St. PeterÕs Episcopal Church in Redwood City on
Tuesday, April 26, 2011. (Kirstina Sangsahachart/ Daily News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 29, 2011 Friday

Immigration rights group organizes May Day march

BYLINE: By Lisa Fernandez lfernandez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 366 words


A Silicon Valley immigration rights group is hosting its fifth annual march on
Sunday, where supporters will demand that workers have the right to unionize and
decry the inhumane treatment of immigrants.

Called the San Jose May 1 Coalition, members will meet as early as noon at Story
and King roads in East San Jose. Organizers hope thousands will join them at 4
p.m. to march the three miles to City Hall downtown.

"We're emphasizing workers' rights this year," said Cesar Juarez, organizing
director of Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network or SIREN. He cited
recent efforts in Wisconsin and Ohio to strip collective bargaining units of
much of their rights.

Though these national stories don't specifically

He also said that typically, a large percentage of unions are made up of
immigrant workers.

Juarez sees the number of supporters of immigrant rights reform growing. The
number of people who turn out for the march don't necessarily reflect that,
though. And there has been a significant discrepancy over turnout numbers.

Last year, Juarez said the San Jose event drew at least 12,000, though the
Mercury News relied on a police account that numbered the marchers at about
5,000. In 2009, Juarez said the event drew 10,000, though the Mercury News
documented there was between 500 and 1,000.

In its peak and debut year in 2006, when immigration reform was among the
hottest topics nationwide, the San Jose march drew 125,000.

San Jose is one of many cities across the nation, including several in the Bay
Area, in which these annual May Day marches have been held. May 1 marks
International Workers Day, which was born in the late 1800s, and is formally
celebrated in more than 80 countries.

Though the numbers of marchers has dwindled, organizers still say immigration
reform is much needed and that immigrants are still under attack. Other than the
union issue this year, organizers also are worried about various states pushing
for Arizona SB 1070-like legislation, which allows police to question people
about their immigration status even if the investigation is about something
else, and repealing in-state tuition for undocumented students.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at 408-920-5002.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Cruel immigration laws are keeping families apart

BYLINE: By U.S. Rep. Mike Honda

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 803 words


In recent weeks, President Obama reiterated his commitment to reforming our
country's immigration system through compassionate, comprehensive legislation.
Describing the Statue of Liberty as a "light to the world," Obama suggested that
America's immigrants--whether they have arrived by the Mayflower, slave ship,
Ellis Island or the Rio Grande--are one people. I couldn't agree more. For many
American families who remain estranged from siblings and parents overseas,
however, that sentiment seems out of reach.

The Reuniting Families Act, which I introduced, fixes this problem by allowing
all Americans to be reunited with their families, including gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender permanent partners.

This act by Congress is critical in order to dispel erroneous assumptions that
continue to fetter immigration reform, particularly at the height of our
nation's debt and deficit debate, when the country's economy is still in
recovery.

The irony behind anti-immigration sentiment, which fears a loss of jobs for
Americans if more immigrant workers enter the United States, is that it is more
fiscally prudent to legalize, employ and reunite our immigrants than to keep
families apart.

We know that lengthy waits waste precious government resources and can
discourage potential applicants from using legal channels to join their families
in the United States. Our family-based immigration system has not been updated
in 20 years, leaving nearly 6 million people stuck waiting indefinitely, which
is both unproductive and inexcusable. Five-year separations are quite common; so
are 20-year estrangements from siblings and elderly parents. Waits are so long
that families receiving visas often find that their children have to reapply as
adults and go to the back of the line.

People who have their families by their side are happier, healthier and more
able to succeed than those living apart from loved ones for years on end. By
pooling resources, families can do together what they can't do alone--start
family businesses, create American jobs and contribute more to the general
welfare. The healthier the community, the more expendable income is available
and the lower the burden on social services.

We know that immigrants who become U.S. citizens consistently pursue
higher-paying jobs and higher education, spend more and provide more tax
revenue. The legalization process brings other economic benefits, including the
retention of remittances. Many workers now send substantial portions of their
salaries to family members abroad, but reform could reunite families separated
by our immigration system and keep monies in the U.S.

In my home district of San Jose, one family is making heart-wrenching decisions
in order to remain together. Judy Rickard recently took early retirement from
her job in the California State University system to live abroad six months each
year to be with her wife, Karin, who is British. Under current U.S. law, Judy's
marriage is not recognized. Why? Because she and Karin are a lesbian couple.
Karin can visit Judy in the U.S. only on a tourist visa, which provides her
entry to the U.S. for only a portion of each year. Now, Judy is faced with the
prospect of having to leave her home in California and go into exile abroad--all
to keep her family together.

This legislation would expand the definition of families to include couples like
Judy and Karin. In doing so, it ensures our country has the ability to attract
new workers to fuel the U.S. economy, and gives employers, like Judy's, a
valuable tool to keep talented Americans on the job, rather than forcing them to
leave their employers in order to keep their families together.

Stories like Judy's are increasingly the rule, not the exception, when it comes
to family unification. Federal laws are literally tearing families apart and
separating American citizens from their loved ones. This is wrong, and it is
time that American lawmakers do something to protect and preserve the American
family.

We are a nation of immigrants, and our country deserves an immigration system
that honors that legacy and supports key family values, like keeping families
intact. The Reuniting Families Act represents a giant step forward in that
commitment and provides a blueprint that respects families, strengthens our
economy and fixes a badly broken system. We urge Congress to take action now.
For every day Congress delays, more families face separation.

Rep. Michael Honda is the chair emeritus of the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus. Judy Rickard is the author of the recently published book "Torn
Apart" and has worked with Immigration Equality Action Fund to ensure
immigration reform legislation is inclusive of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender families like hers. She lives in the Cambrian area of San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Cruel immigration laws are keeping families apart

BYLINE: By U.S. Rep. Mike Honda

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 803 words


In recent weeks, President Obama reiterated his commitment to reforming our
country's immigration system through compassionate, comprehensive legislation.
Describing the Statue of Liberty as a "light to the world," Obama suggested that
America's immigrants--whether they have arrived by the Mayflower, slave ship,
Ellis Island or the Rio Grande--are one people. I couldn't agree more. For many
American families who remain estranged from siblings and parents overseas,
however, that sentiment seems out of reach.

The Reuniting Families Act, which I introduced, fixes this problem by allowing
all Americans to be reunited with their families, including gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender permanent partners.

This act by Congress is critical in order to dispel erroneous assumptions that
continue to fetter immigration reform, particularly at the height of our
nation's debt and deficit debate, when the country's economy is still in
recovery.

The irony behind anti- immigration sentiment, driven by fear of job loss for
Americans if more immigrant workers enter the United States, is that it is more
fiscally prudent to legalize, employ and reunite our immigrants than to keep
families apart.

We know that lengthy waits waste precious government resources and can
discourage potential applicants from using legal channels to join their families
in the United States. Our family-based immigration system has not been updated
in 20 years, leaving nearly 6 million people stuck waiting indefinitely, which
is both unproductive and inexcusable. Five-year separations are quite common; so
are 20-year estrangements from siblings and elderly parents. Waits are so long
that families receiving visas often find that their children have to reapply as
adults and go to the back of the line.

People who have their families by their side are happier, healthier and more
able to succeed than those living apart from loved ones for years on end. By
pooling resources, families can do together what they can't do alone--start
family businesses, create American jobs and contribute more to the general
welfare. The healthier the community, the more expendable income is available
and the lower the burden on social services.

We know that immigrants who become U.S. citizens consistently pursue
higher-paying jobs and higher education, spend more and provide more tax
revenue. The legalization process brings other economic benefits, including the
retention of remittances. Many workers now send substantial portions of their
salaries to family members abroad, but reform could reunite families separated
by our immigration system and keep monies in the U.S.

In my home district of San Jose, one family is making heart-wrenching decisions
in order to remain together. Judy Rickard recently took early retirement from
her job in the California State University system to live abroad six months each
year to be with her wife, Karin, who is British. Under current U.S. law, Judy's
marriage is not recognized. Why? Because she and Karin are a lesbian couple.
Karin can visit Judy in the U.S. only on a tourist visa, which provides her
entry to the U.S. for only a portion of each year. Now, Judy is faced with the
prospect of having to leave her home in California and go into exile abroad--all
to keep her family together.

This legislation would expand the definition of families to include couples like
Judy and Karin. In doing so, it ensures our country has the ability to attract
new workers to fuel the U.S. economy, and gives employers, like Judy's, a
valuable tool to keep talented Americans on the job, rather than forcing them to
leave their employers in order to keep their families together.

Stories like Judy's are increasingly the rule, not the exception, when it comes
to family unification. Federal laws are literally tearing families apart and
separating American citizens from their loved ones. This is wrong, and it is
time that American lawmakers do something to protect and preserve the American
family.

We are a nation of immigrants, and our country deserves an immigration system
that honors that legacy and supports key family values, like keeping families
intact. The Reuniting Families Act represents a giant step forward in that
commitment and provides a blueprint that respects families, strengthens our
economy and fixes a badly broken system. We urge Congress to take action now.
For every day Congress delays, more families face separation.

Rep. Michael Honda is the chair emeritus of the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus. Judy Rickard is the author of the recently published book "Torn
Apart" and has worked with Immigration Equality Action Fund to ensure
immigration reform legislation is inclusive of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender families like hers. She lives in the Cambrian area of San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Congressman Mike Honda holds a town hall meeting on health care reform
at the Mayer Theatre at Santa Clara University in Santa Clara on Sept. 13, 2009.
(Gary Reyes/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 12, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Cruel immigration laws are keeping families apart

BYLINE: By U.S. Rep. Mike Honda

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 803 words


In recent weeks, President Obama reiterated his commitment to reforming our
country's immigration system through compassionate, comprehensive legislation.
Describing the Statue of Liberty as a "light to the world," Obama suggested that
America's immigrants--whether they have arrived by the Mayflower, slave ship,
Ellis Island or the Rio Grande--are one people. I couldn't agree more. For many
American families who remain estranged from siblings and parents overseas,
however, that sentiment seems out of reach.

The Reuniting Families Act, which I introduced, fixes this problem by allowing
all Americans to be reunited with their families, including gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender permanent partners.

This act by Congress is critical in order to dispel erroneous assumptions that
continue to fetter immigration reform, particularly at the height of our
nation's debt and deficit debate, when the country's economy is still in
recovery.

The irony behind anti-immigration sentiment, which fears a loss of jobs for
Americans if more immigrant workers enter the United States, is that it is more
fiscally prudent to legalize, employ and reunite our immigrants than to keep
families apart.

We know that lengthy waits waste precious government resources and can
discourage potential applicants from using legal channels to join their families
in the United States. Our family-based immigration system has not been updated
in 20 years, leaving nearly 6 million people stuck waiting indefinitely, which
is both unproductive and inexcusable. Five-year separations are quite common; so
are 20-year estrangements from siblings and elderly parents. Waits are so long
that families receiving visas often find that their children have to reapply as
adults and go to the back of the line.

People who have their families by their side are happier, healthier and more
able to succeed than those living apart from loved ones for years on end. By
pooling resources, families can do together what they can't do alone--start
family businesses, create American jobs and contribute more to the general
welfare. The healthier the community, the more expendable income is available
and the lower the burden on social services.

We know that immigrants who become U.S. citizens consistently pursue
higher-paying jobs and higher education, spend more and provide more tax
revenue. The legalization process brings other economic benefits, including the
retention of remittances. Many workers now send substantial portions of their
salaries to family members abroad, but reform could reunite families separated
by our immigration system and keep monies in the U.S.

In my home district of San Jose, one family is making heart-wrenching decisions
in order to remain together. Judy Rickard recently took early retirement from
her job in the California State University system to live abroad six months each
year to be with her wife, Karin, who is British. Under current U.S. law, Judy's
marriage is not recognized. Why? Because she and Karin are a lesbian couple.
Karin can visit Judy in the U.S. only on a tourist visa, which provides her
entry to the U.S. for only a portion of each year. Now, Judy is faced with the
prospect of having to leave her home in California and go into exile abroad--all
to keep her family together.

This legislation would expand the definition of families to include couples like
Judy and Karin. In doing so, it ensures our country has the ability to attract
new workers to fuel the U.S. economy, and gives employers, like Judy's, a
valuable tool to keep talented Americans on the job, rather than forcing them to
leave their employers in order to keep their families together.

Stories like Judy's are increasingly the rule, not the exception, when it comes
to family unification. Federal laws are literally tearing families apart and
separating American citizens from their loved ones. This is wrong, and it is
time that American lawmakers do something to protect and preserve the American
family.

We are a nation of immigrants, and our country deserves an immigration system
that honors that legacy and supports key family values, like keeping families
intact. The Reuniting Families Act represents a giant step forward in that
commitment and provides a blueprint that respects families, strengthens our
economy and fixes a badly broken system. We urge Congress to take action now.
For every day Congress delays, more families face separation.

Rep. Michael Honda is the chair emeritus of the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus. Judy Rickard is the author of the recently published book "Torn
Apart" and has worked with Immigration Equality Action Fund to ensure
immigration reform legislation is inclusive of lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender families like hers. She lives in the Cambrian area of San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Mercury News editorial: Silicon Valley should support DREAM Act

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 509 words


President Barack Obama knows his immigration reforms have no chance of passing
this year, even though the need is great and his approach is sound.

But there is still hope for the federal and state Dream Act legislation.

Silicon Valley's tech industry is facing a serious shortage of educated workers.
It has a huge interest in helping the president score a victory that would help
the valley's and the nation's economy, not to mention helping some 800,000 young
people become productive members of society.

The valley has flourished in part because of the ideas and hard work of
immigrants from around the world. The blueprint for success has been to recruit
intelligent, creative, energetic young adults and give them the opportunity to
become the business leaders of tomorrow. But kids brought here by their parents
illegally are barred from those opportunities, even though our tax dollars have
paid for their K-12 education.

The Dream Act offers a path to citizenship for them if they do well in school
and go on to college or enlist in the military.

Hardliners on immigration say the United States has no business helping anyone
who is here illegally under any circumstances. But the vast majority of
Americans -- more than 70 percent in the most recent polls -- feel otherwise.
Like Silicon Valley CEOs, they realize that motivated young people are a
resource that must not be squandered, especially when there is a shortage of
skilled math and science students coming out of college.

The California Legislature passed Dream Act legislation four times in recent
years, only to see Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger veto it or refuse to sign it into
law. The state Assembly on May 5 passed one of two bills that make up
Assemblyman Gil Cedillo's Dream Act package. This one authorizes highly
motivated students to receive state or private aid for college if they meet
certain conditions.

The Legislature should pass both of Cedillo's bills, and Gov. Jerry Brown should
sign them.

On the federal level, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., last week re-introduced his
Dream Act. It passed the House last fall but stalled in the Senate, even though
a majority of senators support it.

Obama should make passing the Dream Act a priority this summer. The legislation
has bipartisan support, including Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of
Florida, who is a co-sponsor of the House version.

More than 50,000 undocumented students graduate from U.S. high schools every
year. The current system gives them next to no chance of going to college,
joining the military or holding anything more than a low-skill job. Yet many
have no memory of their homelands and speak no language but English. They are,
in everything but documentation, American.

Republicans said Obama's speech on immigration in El Paso, Texas, last week was
a political ploy to attract Latino voters for his 2012 re-election campaign.
Obama can prove them wrong and show his sincerity by pushing the Dream Act
through Congress. And Silicon Valley, acting in self-interest, should support
the president every step on the way.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Mercury News editorial: Silicon Valley should support DREAM Act

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 509 words


President Barack Obama knows his immigration reforms have no chance of passing
this year, even though the need is great and his approach is sound.

But there is still hope for the federal and state Dream Act legislation.

Silicon Valley's tech industry is facing a serious shortage of educated workers.
It has a huge interest in helping the president score a victory that would help
the valley's and the nation's economy, not to mention helping some 800,000 young
people become productive members of society.

The valley has flourished in part because of the ideas and hard work of
immigrants from around the world. The blueprint for success has been to recruit
intelligent, creative, energetic young adults and give them the opportunity to
become the business leaders of tomorrow. But kids brought here by their parents
illegally are barred from those opportunities, even though our tax dollars have
paid for their K-12 education.

The Dream Act offers a path to citizenship for them if they do well in school
and go on to college or enlist in the military.

Hardliners on immigration say the United States has no business helping anyone
who is here illegally under any circumstances. But the vast majority of
Americans -- more than 70 percent in the most recent polls -- feel otherwise.
Like Silicon Valley CEOs, they realize that motivated young people are a
resource that must not be squandered, especially when there is a shortage of
skilled math and science students coming out of college.

The California Legislature passed Dream Act legislation four times in recent
years, only to see Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger veto it or refuse to sign it into
law. The state Assembly on May 5 passed one of two bills that make up
Assemblyman Gil Cedillo's Dream Act package. This one authorizes highly
motivated students to receive state or private aid for college if they meet
certain conditions.

The Legislature should pass both of Cedillo's bills, and Gov. Jerry Brown should
sign them.

On the federal level, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., last week re-introduced his
Dream Act. It passed the House last fall but stalled in the Senate, even though
a majority of senators support it.

Obama should make passing the Dream Act a priority this summer. The legislation
has bipartisan support, including Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of
Florida, who is a co-sponsor of the House version.

More than 50,000 undocumented students graduate from U.S. high schools every
year. The current system gives them next to no chance of going to college,
joining the military or holding anything more than a low-skill job. Yet many
have no memory of their homelands and speak no language but English. They are,
in everything but documentation, American.

Republicans said Obama's speech on immigration in El Paso, Texas, last week was
a political ploy to attract Latino voters for his 2012 re-election campaign.
Obama can prove them wrong and show his sincerity by pushing the Dream Act
through Congress. And Silicon Valley, acting in self-interest, should support
the president every step on the way.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 25, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Texas governor aims to put border debate to his
political advantage

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 646 words


SAN ANTONIO -- Something smells in Texas, and it isn't yellow roses or
bluebonnets. This foul odor is coming from the general vicinity of the
Legislature and the governor's mansion.

The stench is unbearable to state Rep. Joaquin Castro. The San Antonio Democrat,
whose twin brother is the mayor of America's seventh-largest city, accuses
Republicans of wreaking havoc in the Lone Star State by creating a backdoor way
to pressure local police to enforce immigration law.

"The Texas Republican Party is trying to walk the wire," Castro said. "They
don't mandate that officers ask about immigration status, but they prohibit
local departments, and cities and counties, from barring enforcement of
immigration law. They also allow a cause of action for any citizen to complain
to the attorney general if their city prohibits enforcement of immigration law."

That is too cute. As a way of requiring police officers to enforce immigration
law, lawmakers want to punish police departments that prohibit their officers
from enforcing immigration law.

Here we go again. Arizona tried to compel local police to enforce immigration
law and wound up losing two rounds in federal court. Yet this hasn't discouraged
other states from coming up with nutty proposals of their own.

In most places, the legislation is fueled by fear of changing demographics.
Local police are dispatched to sweep up anyone they suspect might be an illegal
immigrant, perhaps using brown skin and accents as evidence.

In Texas, the legislation -- which was temporarily derailed but is likely to be
reintroduced -- is more crafty. It comes disguised as a crackdown on so-called
"sanctuary cities."

Earlier this year, Gov. Rick Perry said that while the federal government needs
to do a better job of enforcing immigration law, state officials "cannot
compound their failure by preventing Texas peace officers from doing their
jobs."

Not that anyone truly understands what "sanctuary cities" means. Republicans
have twisted the words to suggest that any local law enforcement agency that
prohibits its officers from questioning suspects about their immigration status
is offering "sanctuary" to illegal immigrants.

That's plain dishonest. The real definition of a "sanctuary city" -- which dates
back to how some municipalities handled Central American refugees in the 1980s
-- is when city officials make a formal declaration prohibiting local law
enforcement from cooperating with federal officials. That is not what this
debate is about.

Go to any one of those places that Republicans call "sanctuary cities" and
you'll see plenty of cooperation with federal agencies. But it's one thing to
cooperate with immigration officials; it's another to impersonate them.

While some Republicans in the Texas Legislature might be pandering to prejudice,
what the people driving the issue -- including Perry, who declared it an
emergency item -- seem to care about most is politics.

And if Perry decides to run for president, his support for the bill might also
help him fend off attacks by fellow Republicans who are ready to pounce on him
for presiding over a state whose largest city -- Houston -- has been labeled by
some as a sanctuary city. Like all big cities in Texas, the Houston Police
Department has a policy of not asking suspects about their immigration status.

Ironically, those Republicans include Perry, who used that very charge to skewer
former Houston Mayor Bill White, his opponent in the 2010 gubernatorial
campaign.

That was back when Perry said that Arizona's immigration law "would not be the
right direction for Texas."

Now Perry is moving in the direction of the Arizona law. Will a Republican Party
with a famously low tolerance for flip-floppers tolerate the about-face? Or will
his fellow Republicans label him a phony and an opportunist and call him out for
it?

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 10, 2011 Friday

California legislators look at opting out of federal immigration enforcement
network

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 972 words


Fellow Democrats are pushing Gov. Jerry Brown to pull California out of a
federal dragnet that scoops up immigrants in county jails or let cities and
counties decide on their own if they want to participate.

Immigrant advocates who say the federal-state partnership casts too wide a net
want the state to join New York, Illinois and Massachusetts in quitting the
Secure Communities program.

It has deported more than 3,900 Bay Area immigrants and detained thousands more
since counties joined the federal network last year, government statistics show.

The electronic database automatically checks every person that police arrest and
fingerprint, flagging immigrants who may be deportable because they are here
illegally or have committed a crime. About 38 percent of those deported from the
Bay Area through the program were not convicted of a crime -- illegal residency
is an administrative violation.

Seven congressional Democrats from Southern California asked Brown on Friday to
suspend the state's participation in the program.

The Assembly last month approved the Trust Act (AB 1081), which would allow
counties and cities to opt out. The state Senate begins reviewing the same bill
Tuesday in a public safety committee led by Sen. Loni Hancock, D-Berkeley.

Two Bay Area counties -- San Francisco and Santa Clara -- have tried to
withdraw, but were told by federal and state authorities they could not because
of an agreement Brown, then the attorney general, made with the federal
government in 2009. The network automatically rolled out in all Bay Area
counties last year and was in place in all 58 counties by February. The Trust
Act, proposed by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, would allow the state
to modify the pact to give local governments more leeway.

Hancock is still reading Ammiano's legislation but said she is inclined to
support it. Involving police officers in immigration enforcement detracts from
community policing, overcrowds the jails and raises civil liberties issues, she
said.

"The question is: Is it making anybody safer?" Hancock said. "This kind of mass
looking-at-people and sending their fingerprints to Washington makes people in
my part of the world nervous."

But even in the liberal East Bay communities that Hancock represents, law
enforcement leaders have mixed feelings about canceling their participation in
Secure Communities. The sheriffs of Alameda and Contra Costa counties oversee
their jails and strongly support the federal program, putting them at odds with
some county supervisors -- a majority in Alameda County -- who support Ammiano's
measure.

Law enforcement's motivation for remaining linked up to the fingerprints
database includes financial considerations, some sheriffs have said. The federal
government sends a partial reimbursement to their jails for immigrant inmates
with criminal records who are placed on an immigration hold and jailed for more
than three days.

The top Republican senator on the public safety committee supports the program.

Secure Communities has been effective in identifying criminals and removing them
from the country, said, Sen. Joel Anderson, R-El Cajon. It also saves local
money, he said.

"Wealthy counties like San Francisco may be able to afford not to seek federal
reimbursements for the cost of dealing with criminal illegal immigrants, but
most other communities throughout California, particularly in rural areas, are
facing tough times," Anderson wrote in an emailed statement.

Alameda County Sheriff Greg Ahern made a similar argument when he defended
Secure Communities and opposed Ammiano's bill in a May 24 meeting before county
supervisors. Opting out of the federal network would give his deputies more work
to do, he said.

"The number of people that would be arrested would remain the same. The number
of people being reported to ICE (the federal immigration agency) would remain
the same. The percentage of people being deported would be the same," Ahern told
supervisors. "It simply would cost us more money, more manpower and make us less
effective."

The supervisors voted 4-1 to support Ammiano's bill.

The Secure Communities program is a centerpiece in the Obama administration's
immigration enforcement strategy. The administration and its supporters say it
targets immigrants who are dangerous criminals. Opponents argue that practice
does not match the stated intentions.

"It's really this backdoor kind of deportation dragnet," said Laura Rivas of the
Oakland-based National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights.

Along with thousands of undocumented immigrants whose only violation is being in
the country illegally, Rivas said the program also deports legal immigrants with
criminal records they were punished for long ago.

"We are actually talking about people who may have a prior criminal record, but
they have already done time for that," she said. "It's created a parallel
justice system to re-punish noncitizens."

Contra Costa County leads the Bay Area in arrests and deportations through
Secure Communities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement picked up 2,560 of the
county's immigrant inmates and deported 878 of them since the county joined the
network in April 2010.

Of those deported, 46 percent had not committed a crime; another 23 percent were
convicted with what federal authorities consider the most serious crimes; 21
percent for low-level crimes and 9 percent for midlevel crimes.

More specific details about what crimes were committed, where detainees were
arrested and other statistics have not been made public.

"All such information is under the control of the Department of Homeland
Security, and by regulation 'such documents shall not be public records,' "
wrote Contra Costa sheriff's Lt. Dennis Kahane in a letter denying a the Bay
Area News Group's request for more information about local bookings.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 363 words


The state of Indiana is not allowed to cut off most of Planned Parenthood's
state and federal public funding solely because the organization also provides
abortions, a federal judge said Friday in blocking part of the state's tough new
abortion law.

U.S. District Judge Tanya Walton Pratt granted Planned Parenthood of Indiana's
request for preliminary injunction on the state's move to defund the
organization. Her ruling sides with federal officials who said states cannot
disqualify Medicaid providers merely because they also offer abortions or
restrict Medicaid recipients' freedom to choose their health care provider.

In a separate ruling, a federal judge blocked parts of Indiana's new immigration
law Friday. U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker granted a request for an
injunction blocking provisions of the law, which was approved this year by
Republicans who control the Statehouse. Barker called the provisions "seriously
flawed."

The American Civil Liberties Union of Indiana and the National Immigration Law
Center sued the state in May. The ACLU has said the law's wording would allow
the arrest of anyone who has had a notice of action filed by immigration
authorities, a formal paperwork step that affects virtually anyone applying to
be in the U.S. for any reason. The other portion that was blocked made it
illegal for immigrants to use ID cards issued by foreign consulates as proof of
identification.

One of the participants in a mock Old West gun battle in South Dakota fired live
ammunition instead of using blanks, wounding three tourists, authorities
announced Friday. The ammunition shattered a 65-year-old Minnesota woman's
fibula. A 48-year-old Pennsylvania man and a 52-year-old Nebraska man were also
wounded.

Conrad Black, once a media mogul whose newspaper empire spanned several
continents, is headed back to prison. U.S. Judge Amy St. Eve sentenced Black to
3½ years in prison. But prosecutors say he will be given credit for more than
two years he already served, meaning the 66-year-old will go back for a little
more than a year. St. Eve had originally sentenced Black to 6½ years in prison
after he was convicted in 2007 of defrauding investors.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 24, 2011 Friday

San Jose: Two federal immigration agents to help in city's anti-gang crackdown

BYLINE: By Sean Webby swebby@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Crime; News;
Local

LENGTH: 821 words


About to lose more than 100 officers to layoffs and struggling with a bloody
spate of gang slayings, San Jose police brass leapt at the chance to get for
free the loan of a pair of elite federal agents to help them investigate the
city's violent Nortenos, Surenos and other criminal crews.

But the SJPD is also a department that has repeatedly and publicly emphasized
that it does not actively cooperate with the normal immigration enforcement of
the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, commonly known as ICE, which is
the agency from which the investigators hail.

When told of the embedded agents, who start Monday, some local immigrant
advocates expressed concern.

"With all the anti-immigrant sentiment out there, we have to be careful with
what that collaboration would be like," said Zelica Rodriguez, a director with
Services, Immigrants Rights & Education Network. "We worry that they are saying
it's to fight crime, when in reality it still is about enforcing immigration
law."

Rodriguez added: "We want to make sure this is not about targeting people who
are here trying to make a better life for themselves."

Jill Malone of PACT, another advocate for the immigrant community, said she
distrusts the federal agency, particularly in the wake of a scandal over whether
the feds misled communities such as Santa Clara County over its forced
participation in a highly controversial ICE immigration enforcement program
called Secure Communities.

"We understand there are budget cuts, but we really hope that the police chief
will work with the community to solve these issues rather than turning to ICE,"
Malone said.

Under Chief Chris Moore's leadership, San Jose police are looking to improve
their tense relationship with immigrant communities, especially Latinos, amid
persistent allegations of racial profiling. One of Moore's first acts as chief
was to discontinue a policy in which cars of unlicensed drivers stopped for
minor traffic violations were impounded for a month -- a policy many felt
unfairly targeted the undocumented Latino community.

And earlier this year, Moore took a prominent role in a national
immigration/policing news conference during which he underlined his policy that
officers refrain from participating in ICE immigration raids. He said at the
time: "This (the issue of immigration enforcement) has become a wedge in our
communities, and we need to remove that wedge."

Moore this week sought to reassure the Latino community that the agents were
here strictly to help them

"This is about criminal gang enforcement. They are criminal investigation
folks," Moore said. "If you are here in the community and doing no harm, then
you have nothing to worry about. If you are engaged in criminal activity, I
don't care where you came from."

Mayor Chuck Reed lent a message of support for the agents, who are here on
indefinite loan. "We are grateful for the assistance of the federal government
in tackling our gang problem," he said.

The two agents, who make a combined salary of more than $200,000, declined to be
interviewed or identified.

But officials said the pair are part of an effort called Operation Community
Shield described on the ICE website as a task force that investigates and
targets violent street gangs and "seeks prosecution and/or removal of alien gang
members from the United States."

Since the launch of the program in 2005, ICE and its partners have arrested more
than 15,000 gang members and associates, representing more than 1,000 gangs,
according to its website. These apprehensions include more than 6,000 criminal
arrests and nearly 9,000 administrative immigration arrests.

Shane Folden, special agent in charge of ICE in Northern California, said his
Operation Community Shield agents were coming to the SJPD purely as a
collaborative anti-gang resource.

"This is a public safety issue, a collaborative effort to protect the community
and to remove them so that they cannot exploit private citizens and prey on
innocent individuals," Folden said.

Folden said that innocent people, undocumented or not, had no reason to fear.

"I can't understand why someone would be worried about that," Folden said. "If
you are a child pornographer, a gang member, a drug smuggler, then absolutely
you should be worried."

Zach Friend, a spokesman for Santa Cruz police, said officers had to allay some
community fears about the ICE agents when they were brought in last year during
a homicide spike in which three of the city's six slayings were gang-related.

"We met with some of the leaders within the Latino community to ensure they
could understand what the reasoning was behind it," Friend said. "The degree of
expertise the agents brought here and the results spoke for themselves."

Operation Southern Exposure netted 45 arrests, weapons and drugs.

San Jose, so far this year, has had 27 homicides, 14 of which police have
identified as having gang elements.

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 29, 2011 Wednesday

Janitors protest plan to require electronic job eligibility system

BYLINE: BY IMRAN NAJAM Mosaic Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words


Justice for Janitors, angered by pending federal legislation that would require
employers to verify the immigration status of their workers via the Internet,
protested in front of the San Jose federal building on June 20.

"We set this up last Friday, and this is just one among many rallies," said
Cecille Isidro, spokeswoman for the United Service Workers West. "We will do
whatever it takes to stop this bill."

The bill, "Legal Workforce Act" (H.R. 2164), introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, would mandate the use of E-Verify for employers. Under the proposed
law, Social Security numbers and immigrant identification numbers of new hires
are checked against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland
Security databases to determine work eligibility.

Smith says the legislation is intended to help ensure that jobs are reserved for
citizens and legal workers.

However, opponents claim that the pending bill "would further threaten our
economic recovery by mandating that all employers rely on an error-ridden
government database that does not accurately verify worker eligibility."

Braulia Delgado, a janitor, said that the protest was to prevent immigrants from
losing their jobs now, and from being affected in the future. "It is my hope
that President Obama will hear us and prevent this [bill] from happening." As of
June 14, the bill was referred to several committees in the Congress.

The State Legislators for Legal Immigration (SLLI) are also opposed to the bill.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: United Service Workers West Vice President Lino Pedres protests an
immigration reform bill introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith in front of the Federal
Building in San Jose. Monday June 21 2011. (Brian Nguyen/Mosaic Staff)
United Service Workers West Union members protest an immigration reform bill
introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith in front of the Federal Building in San Jose.
Monday June 21 2011. (Brian Nguyen/Mosaic Staff)
Jason Oringer protests an immigration reform bill introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith
in front of the Federal Building in San Jose. Monday June 21 2011. (Brian
Nguyen/Mosaic Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

Gay couple gets two-year deportation reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 300 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- An immigration judge on Wednesday delayed the deportation of a
Venezuelan man, giving him and his husband more time to make a case that they
should be considered a married couple under federal immigration laws.

Alex Benshimol, 47, a Venezuelan citizen, and Doug Gentry, 53, a U.S. citizen,
were legally married last year in Connecticut. They live in Cathedral City, near
Palm Springs.

By applying for a green card for Benshimol, who moved to the United States in
1999 on a visa that has since expired, the Southern California couple said it
was challenging the constitutionality of the federal Defense of Marriage Act,
which bans same-sex marriage. Married U.S. citizens can sponsor their spouses
for a green card and eventual citizenship, but the federal government does not
recognize green card applications by same-sex spouses.

Judge Marilyn Teeter instructed Immigration and Customs Enforcement to inform
her court within 60 days about whether it plans to pursue Benshimol's
deportation or close the case. Lavi Soloway, the couple's lawyer, cited a memo
issued by the nation's director of immigration enforcement last month that told
agents to use discretion when seeking to deport illegal immigrants. While the
memo makes no mention of gay couples, it does tell agents to use discretion when
immigrants have family members in the United States. The couple hopes that more
time will give the government a chance to clarify its position on deporting gays
and les.

Teeter also put the deportation on hold by at least two years by ordering the
couple to come back for a hearing in September 2013.

"That effectively gives this couple a two-year reprieve and removes this dark
cloud that has been hanging over their head for years," Soloway said. "This
allows them to go live their daily life."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

Gay couple gets two-year deportation reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 300 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- An immigration judge on Wednesday delayed the deportation of a
Venezuelan man, giving him and his husband more time to make a case that they
should be considered a married couple under federal immigration laws.

Alex Benshimol, 47, a Venezuelan citizen, and Doug Gentry, 53, a U.S. citizen,
were legally married last year in Connecticut. They live in Cathedral City, near
Palm Springs.

By applying for a green card for Benshimol, who moved to the United States in
1999 on a visa that has since expired, the Southern California couple said it
was challenging the constitutionality of the federal Defense of Marriage Act,
which bans same-sex marriage. Married U.S. citizens can sponsor their spouses
for a green card and eventual citizenship, but the federal government does not
recognize green card applications by same-sex spouses.

Judge Marilyn Teeter instructed Immigration and Customs Enforcement to inform
her court within 60 days about whether it plans to pursue Benshimol's
deportation or close the case. Lavi Soloway, the couple's lawyer, cited a memo
issued by the nation's director of immigration enforcement last month that told
agents to use discretion when seeking to deport illegal immigrants. While the
memo makes no mention of gay couples, it does tell agents to use discretion when
immigrants have family members in the United States. The couple hopes that more
time will give the government a chance to clarify its position on deporting gays
and les.

Teeter also put the deportation on hold by at least two years by ordering the
couple to come back for a hearing in September 2013.

"That effectively gives this couple a two-year reprieve and removes this dark
cloud that has been hanging over their head for years," Soloway said. "This
allows them to go live their daily life."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

Gay couple get two-year deportation reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 308 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- An immigration judge on Wednesday delayed the deportation of a
Venezuelan man, giving him and his gay partner more time to make a case that
they should be considered a married couple under federal immigration laws.

Alex Benshimol, 47, a Venezuelan citizen, and Doug Gentry, 53, a U.S. citizen,
were legally married last year in Connecticut.

By applying for a green card for Benshimol, who moved to the United States in
1999 on a visa that has since expired, the Southern California couple said it
was challenging the constitutionality of the federal Defense of Marriage Act,
which bans same-sex marriage. Married U.S. citizens can sponsor their spouses
for a green card and eventual citizenship, but the federal government does not
recognize green card applications by same-sex spouses.

Judge Marilyn Teeter instructed Immigration and Customs Enforcement to inform
her court within 60 days about whether it plans to pursue Benshimol's
deportation or close the case. Lavi Soloway, the couple's lawyer, cited a memo
issued by the nation's director of immigration enforcement last month that told
agents to use discretion when seeking to deport illegal immigrants. While the
memo makes no mention of gay couples, it does tell agents to use discretion when
immigrants have family members in the United States. The couple hopes that more
time will give the government a chance to clarify its position on deporting gays
and lesbians who have U.S. citizen spouses.

Teeter also put the deportation on hold by at least two years by ordering the
couple to come back for a hearing in September 2013.

"That effectively gives this couple a two-year reprieve and removes this dark
cloud that has been hanging over their head for years," Soloway said. "This
allows them to go live their daily life."

The couple lives in Cathedral City, near Palm Springs.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

San Jose: ICE supervisors, not agents will meet with community activists

BYLINE: By Sean Webby swebby@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 606 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (7/21/2011, pg. 2A)
An article about a meeting between immigration officials and San Jose community
activists incorrectly identified the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency.

Rejecting a demand by San Jose community activists, federal immigration
officials said they will not allow a pair of their anti-gang agents to meet them
face to face.

Instead, the coalition of activists are scheduled to meet next week with two
supervisors for the U.S. Immigration Customs and Enforcement agents, who were
invited by San Jose police Chief Chris Moore to help them investigate the city's
increasingly violent gangs.

Community advocates are now expected to meet privately with Clark Settles,
special agent in charge for ICE Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), and
Shane Folden, deputy special agent in charge for ICE HSI, who are both based in
San Francisco.

"As the two top managers for ICE HSI in Northern California, Mr. Settles and Mr.
Folden are responsible for any decisions about HSI's participation in such
enforcement partnerships," Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman, said in an email
Tuesday. "Likewise, Mr. Settles and Mr. Folden are ultimately accountable for
the results of those efforts, which is why they will represent HSI at the
upcoming meeting."

But the activists aren't satisfied. They demanded the meeting with agents to get
their assurances that they will be focusing on gang members, not law-abiding
undocumented residents.

"This is not what we asked for. Meeting with the supervisor is a good step, but
we want to meet with the agents," said Maria Noel Fernandez, an activist with
Sacred Heart Community Services. "One of the things we want to know is who they
are, who will be walking around our neighborhoods, how do they see their roles?"

And so the tense showdown over a duo of federal investigators continues.

Independent Police Auditor LaDoris Cordell said if identifying the ICE agents
could jeopardize their anti-gang work, then the community leaders should meet
with the supervisors. She said she suspects ICE has never met with members of
the immigrant community in San Jose.

"Community leaders must take advantage of this unprecedented opportunity to have
their concerns aired and all of their questions answered; and the ICE supervisor
must be forthright and candid in answering them," Cordell said.

Earlier this month, this newspaper reported that Moore invited the agents to
help work with his gang investigations unit, hoping to stem the recent spike in
gang violence that has led the city to one of its highest homicide rates in
years. But advocates for the city's immigrant community reacted with dismay,
saying that it was undermining the chief's attempts to rebuild trust with them.

They contend the agents' presence on the streets would only exacerbate chronic
fears in the immigrant community that reporting crimes or cooperating with
police officers will lead to deportations. Moore and his department have
repeatedly tried to reassure the community that they are not in the immigration
enforcement business. The agents, he promised, would be closely monitored to
make sure they focused solely on violent gang members.

But many in the immigrant community remain suspicious.

Said Zelica Rodriguez, a director of the immigrant advocacy group SIREN, "The
chief told us that he was the one who would be supervising the agents. Why meet
with the supervisor, if Moore is the one who is supervising their activities?"

"It's a real fear when the federal government works alongside local law
enforcement," Rodriguez said. "What is the real reason why?"

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday

Deportation tide changing for gay couples

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1094 words


OAKLAND -- When a judge last week closed a deportation case against Filipino
immigrant Raul Sinense, he and his husband, Peter Gee, celebrated by having
coffee together on Berkeley's Solano Avenue.

The low-key celebration suited the low-key couple, who married on a Big Sur
beach during the six-month window in 2008 when same-sex marriage was legal in
California.



The occasion, however, also marked a turning point: The Oakland pair is one of
just three gay couples nationwide to benefit from a new Obama administration
policy that orders immigration officials to reconsider deporting illegal
immigrants who have strong community and family ties.

"This is a really pivotal case," Gee said. "It seems like the tide is changing
in the U.S. toward inclusion, toward equality, toward human."

Immigration Judge Tue Phan-Quang ordered the case against Sinense closed on Aug.
16 because the immigration service said a few days earlier it was no longer
seeking to deport Sinense to the Philippines. The problems are not over for
Sinense -- his case is not decisively terminated, just on indefinite hold -- but
the action means the couple won't be separated and Sinense can reapply for a
work permit.

"San Francisco right now is really the center of this policy shift," said Camiel
Becker, the couple's lawyer. "We have judges who don't want to deport people if
they're in a same-sex marriage. It's not just by chance. The trial attorneys and
the judges understand this is a human right. If we were in the Harlingen, Texas,
court, this would not be happening. This is all discretionary."

A June 17 memorandum from John Morton, the head of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, was the first sign of major changes happening within the nation's
complicated immigration enforcement apparatus, which deported a record 393,000
people last year.

Morton listed new guidelines for agents to use "prosecutorial discretion" when
deciding whom to deport, and said special consideration should be made for
students and other upstanding immigrants, especially when their removal from the
country would split a family apart. For much of the summer, however, lawyers
across the country remained unclear about whether the agency would show same-sex
spouses the same discretion it shows opposite-sex spouses and other immediate
family members.

Six states allow same-sex marriages but the federal government does not
recognize them.

On June 29, a federal immigration judge in New Jersey was the first to halt the
deportation of a gay spouse, a Venezuelan man who had married a U.S. citizen in
Connecticut.

On July 13, San Francisco-based immigration Judge Marilyn Teeter halted the
deportation of another Venezuelan man, Alex Benshimol, who had married his
Southern California partner in Connecticut. Teeter gave immigration officials
two months to contest her decision.

The answer came Aug. 11, when Aaron Keesler, a lawyer for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, wrote back that the agency was dropping its case against
Benshimol.

On the same day, Keesler said the deportation case against Sinense was being
dropped, and a judge formally closed that case Aug. 16.

That made Sinense, 46, and Gee, 49, one of the first three binational gay
couples to be spared from separation as a result of the new policy.

"I see myself growing old with Peter," Sinense said. "It would have been
difficult starting my whole life over again."

White House officials and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano made the
new discretionary policy more explicit Aug. 18 when they announced they would
begin a case-by-case review of the nation's 300,000 pending deportation cases
and close those against many illegal immigrants who are not criminals or repeat
violators of immigration laws. The White House also made clear, for the first
time, that same-sex marriages would be treated as a family tie.

Gee said the reprieve brought closure to a difficult time for the couple, who
moved to East Oakland from Southern California less than two years ago.

"We were so naive about the whole process, what the options were, what to do,"
Gee said. "We don't have O.J. Simpson's legal budget."

Sinense has lived in California for about 15 years and had been working to get a
green card. An insurance company agreed to sponsor him for an employment-based
visa, he said, and he was able to get a legal work permit as he waded through
the application process. In the meantime, he also met Gee, a native Californian
and professional artist, and fell in love.

At their wedding ceremony in 2008, Sinense told guests of Gee's "gentle aura."
Gee described how he was immediately connected by Sinense's smile that put him
at ease, and talked of their journey into a "most ordinary and simple life"
together.

They learned the next year that it wouldn't be so simple. The work visa plans
fell through in the recession and Sinense received a deportation notice in 2009.
They talked about what would happen if Sinense was forced to leave.

For Becker, their lawyer, keeping the couple together wasn't just a matter of
legal prowess. It was also personal.

A decade ago, Becker fell in love with a Salvadoran man while he was working in
El Salvador. The pair wanted to move together to the United States, but the
federal Defense of Marriage Act, which bans same-sex marriage, made it
impossible for Becker to apply for a green card on his partner's behalf, as he
could have done if he married a Salvadoran woman. The same law made it
impossible for Gee to apply for a green card for Sinense, though their marriage
is considered legally valid in California.

Becker wrote about his experience last year in an essay for a local news outlet.
Gee and Sinense read that essay and, after having contacted dozens of lawyers,
decided it was Becker they wanted helping them.

Months after he took on their case, Becker began to sense that the Defense of
Marriage Act was cracking when the Justice Department announced in February that
it would stop defending it because it considered the act unconstitutional.

"At that point, I felt there was no way I was going to let Raul be deported. I
just wasn't going to let that happen," Becker said.

He argued in court that the Constitution requires the couple's same-sex marriage
license to be recognized under immigration law. He encouraged Oakland Mayor Jean
Quan, a friend of the couple, to write a letter on their behalf, which she did.

Gee and Sinense said they began to see their legal battle as a civil rights
cause.

"I just see it as a right and I feel like it's happening, it's going to happen,
it has to happen," Gee said.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Married couple Raul Sinense, left, and Peter Gee, right, are seen here,
in Oakland, Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011. The couple are one of the first
in the nation to benefit from a new Obama administration deportation policy,
that directs immigration officers to use discretion in choosing whom to deport
giving priority to criminals and not people with strong family ties. Sinense, a
Filipino national, has lived in the U.S. for 15 years but was placed on
deportation proceedings in 2009. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Married couple Raul Sinense, left, and Peter Gee, right, are seen here in a
photo at a friends wedding, in Oakland, Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011. The
couple are one of the first in the nation to benefit from a new Obama
administration deportation policy, that directs immigration officers to use
discretion in choosing whom to deport giving priority to criminals and not
people with strong family ties. Sinense, a Filipino national, has lived in the
U.S. for 15 years but was placed on deportation proceedings in 2009. (Anda
Chu/Staff)
Married couple Raul Sinense, left, and Peter Gee, right, pose in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011. The couple are one of the first in the
nation to benefit from a new Obama administration deportation policy, that
directs immigration officers to use discretion in choosing whom to deport giving
priority to criminals and not people with strong family ties. Sinense, a
Filipino national, has lived in the U.S. for 15 years but was placed on
deportation proceedings in 2009. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Married couple Peter Gee, left, and Raul Sinense, right, pose in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011. The couple are one of the first in the
nation to benefit from a new Obama administration deportation policy, that
directs immigration officers to use discretion in choosing whom to deport giving
priority to criminals and not people with strong family ties. Sinense, a
Filipino national, has lived in the U.S. for 15 years but was placed on
deportation proceedings in 2009. (Anda Chu/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Plan to stop targeting low-priority immigrants in enforcement policy
makes sense

BYLINE: By U.S. Rep. Michael Honda for Silicon Valley Community Newspapers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 685 words


In August, the Obama administration announced that immigration enforcement
programs will no longer

This is a huge step in the right direction for the White House and its
Department of Homeland Security, which has claimed, repeatedly, to prioritize
its finite immigration enforcement resources by pursuing criminal aliens, yet
concurrently deports tens of thousands of immigrants who pose no threat to our
national security or community safety.

DHS programs like Secure Communities that require local police officers to
engage in federal immigration law enforcement has meant that the agency's stated
priorities are routinely neglected and individuals without a prior criminal
history have wound up in deportation proceedings after being stopped for minor
traffic violations, loitering or other small infractions.

An-eye opening report released this month by the American Immigration Lawyers
Association documents 127 cases of low-priority individuals from around the
country who were placed into deportation proceedings after these types of
encounters with local police. In one example, DHS along with local law
enforcement spent financial resources and manpower to pick up a San Francisco
area high school graduate from a local park, take him to jail, identify him as
undocumented and get him placed in deportation proceedings. That graduate has
been in the U.S. since he was 4 years old, has no criminal history and was never
charged with a crime at the police station. In another, the victim of a hit and
run car accident called the police only to be identified as an undocumented
immigrant and held at the scene of the crime until Immigration and Customs
Enforcement arrived to take him into custody and be placed into removal
proceedings.

This type of interaction sends a message to immigrant communities that reporting
crimes can lead to deportation. Consequently, our communities are less safe when
local police can't effectively do their jobs. Besides the social consequence of
heavy-handed police engagement in immigration enforcement, there are also
serious financial concerns.

Local law enforcement agencies are utilizing invaluable time and resources on
people who are contributing socially and economically to our communities, not
criminals who are causing harm. Low-priority cases such as these are clogging up
the immigration court system by contributing to a backlog of nearly 300,000
cases and an average wait of 482 days until a hearing.

To tackle this burdensome number, DHS has decided to detail a committee with the
responsibility of evaluating every pending immigration case to determine if the
immigration violator is a low or high priority for deportation. Low priority
cases will be closed and the immigrant will be allowed to apply for work
authorization though will not receive a full legal immigration status.
High-priority cases will be accelerated and handled quickly by an immigration
judge.

The criteria for prioritization is outlined in an agency memo from June 17 and
includes things such as a person's ties and contributions to the community,
family relationships, whether the person is a primary caretaker, nursing mother
or would otherwise qualify for relief in immigration court. A new guidance memo
outlining implementation of the plan is expected to follow the administration's
announcement.

This plan is as ambitious as it is righteous. I am heartened by the agency's
realization that they were wasting finite resources on harmless people. It does
not, however, allow all DREAM Act students or noncriminal immigrants room to
breathe a sigh of relief. The only way to truly fix our broken immigration
system is with comprehensive immigration reform passed by both chambers of this
Congress.

I urge my colleagues, especially those on the Judiciary Committee, to carefully
review this plan from DHS and use it as a starting place for a thoughtful
conversation about immigration policy.

U.S. Rep. Michael Honda is chair emeritus of the Congressional Asian Pacific
American Caucus and chairs the caucus' Immigration Task Force. Honda has
represented Silicon Valley in Congress since 2001.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Immigration sweep nets 186 in Northern California, more than 2,900 nationwide

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 311 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Immigration agents arrested 186 people in Northern California
and more than 2,900 nationwide in a weeklong sweep in search of illegal and
legal immigrants with criminal records.

In the Bay Area, the majority of arrests occurred in Santa Clara County, where
35 immigrants were arrested, followed by 23 in Alameda County, according to U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Most of those arrested in the Bay Area had prior felony convictions. Five are
documented gang members.

News of the federal operation -- dubbed Cross Check -- arrived the same morning
that President Barack Obama defended his administration's deportation strategy
in an online round-table discussion with Latinos.

The administration repeatedly has said it would prioritize deporting criminals
and egregious violators of immigration laws while halting the deportation of
some illegal immigrants with strong community ties, such as students who grew up
in the U.S. and graduated from American high schools.

White House officials said last month that a newly formed committee would begin
a case-by-case review of roughly 300,000 pending deportation cases, but those
reviews have not begun.

Immigration officials did not release the names and charges of those arrested in
the seven-day sweep, but they said the arrests included two Bay Area men who had
illegally re-entered the United States after being deported: a 37-year-old Daly
City resident from Mexico with convictions for selling cocaine and failing to
register as a sex offender; and a 52-year-old Stockton resident, also from
Mexico, with convictions for voluntary manslaughter and assault with a deadly
weapon.

"We go out and arrest people every day, but not at this magnitude," said Timothy
Aitken, who heads Immigration and Customs Enforcement's field office in San
Francisco. "You had every office in the country participating."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday

District attorney, sheriff criticize Santa Clara County supervisors for new
immigration policy

BYLINE: By Tracy Seipel tseipel@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 1129 words


When Santa Clara County supervisors decided last week to buck the U.S.
government by reducing the county's role in deporting criminals, immigration
authorities warned local officials that they were endangering the public.

But it's not only the feds who are concerned with the 3-1 vote by the board of
supervisors. So are some of the county's top law enforcement officials,
including District Attorney Jeff Rosen and Sheriff Laurie Smith.

They say supervisors are playing a potentially dangerous game of chicken with
U.S. immigration officials.

Most alarming, Rosen and Smith say, is that supervisors decided to release
illegal immigrants with a history of committing serious or violent crimes into
the community if immigration authorities don't pay to detain them. Officials
from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, commonly known as ICE, have balked at
that request. So the county now will free those inmates when their sentences are
up.

"The action taken by the board of supervisors does not allow us the latitude to
make a decision in the best interest of public safety,'' Smith told this
newspaper. "If a person has been convicted of a serious or violent felony, they
should remain in jail."

Similarly, Rosen said he supports honoring immigration holds "on individuals
convicted of serious or violent crimes because deporting dangerous criminals
promotes public safety.''

Illegal immigrants with a violent past should be kept in jail even if the feds
don't pay for the detention, Rosen said.

Santa Clara County's new policy is a reaction to the federal Secure Communities
program, which the county tried to avoid but was forced to join in May 2010. The
program requires local jailers to share with ICE the fingerprints of everyone
booked.

The county's beef with ICE? Because it's not in the business of arresting
immigrants suspected of staying in the country illegally, it doesn't want to be
linked to those arrests. That's why immigrant rights advocates last week called
the county's new policy the most progressive "immigration hold'' policy in the
U.S. They particularly support the part of the new policy that shields illegal
immigrants arrested for nonviolent crimes and misdemeanors. Under the new
policy, those immigrants will be freed before federal agents can grab them.

Rosen and Smith say they agree with that part of the new policy.

Detaining illegal immigrants who are minor offenders makes little sense because
"it breaks families apart and drives a wedge between law enforcement and
immigrant communities, which is bad for all Santa Clara County residents," Rosen
said.

Smith also said that her goal is to detain only those immigrants who pose a
threat to the community.

But Rosen and Smith think supervisors went way too far in asking ICE to
reimburse the county to detain illegal immigrants with a serious criminal
history for an additional 24 hours after they were set to be released.

Voting to impose the new policy were Supervisors George Shirakawa Jr., Ken
Yeager and Dave Cortese. Mike Wasserman, who has the same concerns as Rosen and
Smith, dissented. Supervisor Liz Kniss was absent.

Before it was amended this month by Shirakawa to include charging the federal
government to detain immigrants with serious felony records, Rosen and Smith --
members of the county's Civil Detainers Task Force -- had agreed to the panel's
recommendation to continue jailing those immigrants for 24 hours so that ICE
could deport them.

"I agreed with the first policy,'' Rosen said, "but this is a bridge too far.''

Shirakawa said he changed the original task force proposal after officials in
Cook County, Ill., recently told federal authorities they would not detain
immigrants unless ICE paid the county for holding them.

Shirakawa and other Santa Clara County officials say that's only fair, because
the cash-strapped county is already paying to do ICE's work by having to house
inmates until federal agents can pick them up at the county jail. It costs about
$125 daily to house an inmate.

County officials also say they have to spend money researching inmates' prior
convictions -- not only locally, but also nationwide -- and have to place
children in the county's dependency system when their parents are put into
deportation proceedings.

Still, neither Shirakawa nor any other county official could say exactly how
much money the county believes it will save with the new policy -- which takes
effect immediately.

ICE officials say the agency isn't costing the county much at all because its
officers pick up inmates in a timely fashion and do not detain parents who have
the sole responsibility for child care. ICE says it allows such parents to
remain out of custody while their immigration cases are being adjudicated.

ICE says the county's new policy is flawed because some immigrants arrested on
minor charges also have serious criminal backgrounds. Releasing them to the
streets rather than turning them over to federal authorities can result in those
people committing more serious crimes, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for
ICE. "Law enforcement agencies that honor ICE detainers ultimately help protect
public safety,'' she said

But county attorneys argue that the court system already has punished the
criminals. "We're not suddenly letting people go before they serve time for
their crimes," said Juniper Downs, lead deputy county counsel.

"ICE has a job to do, and as a county we have a job to do,'' she said. "The
board has made a decision that we are not going to volunteer county resources to
enforce civil immigration. If ICE is requesting our cooperation and is willing
to reimburse us for the costs we incur, then we are willing to cooperate."

Contact Tracy Seipel at 408 275-0140.


     ·    An illegal immigrant is arrested for a misdemeanor. The immigrant is
          booked into the county jail and, if convicted, serves his or her
          sentence there. Immigration authorities, who have requested that the
          county contact them and detain that person for 24 hours before he or
          she is released, are not contacted. So the immigrant goes free. An
          illegal immigrant is arrested for a misdemeanor. But the immigrant has
          previously been convicted of a serious or violent felony and served
          time in a state prison. Immigration authorities, who have requested
          that the county contact them and detain that person for 24 hours
          before his or her release, are not contacted unless federal
          authorities agree to pay the county to detain the immigrant. An
          illegal immigrant is arrested for a serious felony. The immigrant is
          booked into the county jail and, if convicted, sent to state prison.
          Immigration authorities, who have requested that state prison
          officials alert them before the prisoner's release, are contacted by
          the state so the inmate can be deported.


Source: Mercury News reporting

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

Jeff Rosen: On immigration issue, Santa Clara County task force had it right the
first time

BYLINE: By Jeff Rosen Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 563 words


As the son and grandson of Holocaust survivors and those who lost their lives to
Nazi tyranny, I know there is no greater symbol of government oppression than a
midnight knock on the door by an authority figure asking for identification
papers. Fortunately, the Bill of Rights protects any individual on American
shores from that sort of intimidation by government, and our Constitution
provides due process for anyone suspected of violating federal immigration laws.

So, needless to say, I carefully considered my response to the recent decision
by the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors to ignore all civil detainer
requests from the federal government and allow undocumented violent felons to be
set free -- despite a request by federal law enforcement to hold them in custody
-- unless federal authorities pay the cost of an additional day's incarceration.

The immigration policy of the federal government is as complex and multifaceted
as are the opinions of how to best reform immigration policy. I personally
believe that if undocumented individuals or families have lived in the United
States for some time, followed our laws and become productive residents, then
they have earned a path to American citizenship.

But my opinion on federal immigration policy is simply that, an opinion. As
district attorney, my job is to make judgments about the prosecution and
sentencing of criminals to ensure a safe and peaceful community for all.

With that crucial responsibility in mind, I cannot support any decision to allow
violent offenders to be returned to Santa Clara County neighborhoods sooner than
necessary under the law. While I understand in the abstract that unfunded
mandates are unfair to local government, this dispute isn't about money. The
federal government provided the county $1.3 million this year toward the cost of
incarcerating undocumented criminals. Rather, I believe this policy to ignore
all civil detainer requests is about specifics -- about potential assaults,
robberies, rapes, child molestations, shootings and murders. It is about keeping
all Santa Clara County residents, documented or not, safe from dangerous
criminals.

My office is prosecuting several recent cases concerning undocumented
individuals from countries as diverse as India, Mexico and the Czech Republic.
One defendant was charged with rape, another threatened a female prosecutor and
her family, and another molested a child. Once criminals have committed these
types of violent offenses, studies demonstrate they are more likely to victimize
again. We cannot justify allowing any undocumented violent felon to be freed if
we have the ability to detain them longer so that the federal government can
determine whether to begin deportation proceedings.

While I respect our county supervisors and our county executive, I strongly
disagree with them regarding this issue. I encourage them to follow the
recommendation of the Civil Detainer Task Force that they commissioned, and on
which the sheriff and I served, and restore the policy of detaining violent
undocumented felons for 24 hours prior to their release. That policy is balanced
and respects people's civil rights because it does not apply to nonviolent
offenders. It prioritizes public safety. Isn't that something we can all agree
on?

JEFF ROSEN is district attorney of Santa Clara County. He wrote this for this
newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday

Father Jon Pedigo and Richard Konda: Community trust in police is crucial to
fighting crime

BYLINE: By Father Jon Pedigo and Richard Konda Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 656 words


Together with our faith community and fellow advocates for a fair judicial
system, we applaud Santa Clara County's new detainer policy that addresses what
is most needed by our communities: respect for the rights of all people. This
will restore trust in local law enforcement.

Aggressive immigration enforcement has created fear among many residents in our
county. We have witnessed the effects of our nation's broken immigration system
whose enforcement-only measures have separated parents from young children and
forced spouses to live apart. It imposes hardship not only on undocumented
immigrants but also on lawful permanent residents who likewise are the subject
of immigration detainers.

In a county where two-thirds of the population is composed of immigrants and
many families are of mixed status, U.S. citizens are also adversely affected
when their family members become the target of flawed immigration policies. No
matter how many resources our support groups dedicate to minimizing the
devastating effects of removal of a parent, relative, co-worker or friend, our
efforts cannot make families whole and restore a sense of security in the
community as long as the county assists in the enforcement of federal
immigration laws.

The key to public safety is to create an environment where the community and law
enforcement work together as partners. Policies that instill fear and suspicion
of authority are not the answer. When the county decided to honor civil
immigration detainers, our local police and immigration agents became one and
the same in the community's eyes. Immigrants live in every neighborhood, so this
mistrust of law enforcement creates a serious breach in public safety.

Immigrants are among our most vulnerable in the community. When they fear the
very people who are supposed to keep them safe, the crimes against them will go
unchecked. Victims have begun a destructive pattern of not reporting crimes
because they are too afraid to come forward as witnesses.

To be clear, because there are already existing safeguards within the criminal
justice system against the release of hardened criminals, the new detainer
policy will not compromise community safety. To say otherwise is a misleading
and irresponsible interpretation of this policy, which will only create more
division and fear in our community. People convicted of serious and violent
offenses under California law go to state prison, where immigration authorities
could choose to place holds on them.

Locally, when Santa Clara County's district attorney prosecutes crimes, the
courts administer justice with public safety as the primary consideration to
minimize risk to county residents. We do not believe that one's citizenship
should be used to profile whether a person has a propensity to commit another
crime. To factor in citizenship status is nothing short of profiling immigrants
as dangerous and untrustworthy.

All persons should be treated equally under the law. Once they have served their
time or been acquitted of the charges against them, they should be released.
This policy is an affirmation of this county's commitment to due process
protections for all.

The way to fight crime is not Immigration and Customs Enforcement collaboration
but, rather, investment in local programs to prevent crime. Our tax dollars
should be spent on county services and improving the criminal justice system.
Our priority should be to work toward community alternatives that decrease crime
and reduce recidivism rates.

There is no choice to be made between immigrant rights and public safety.
Protecting immigrant rights means achieving public safety.

FATHER JON PEDIGO is a pastor at St. Julie Billiart Parish and director for the
Justice for Immigrants Campaign of the Diocese of San Jose. RICHARD KONDA is
executive director of the Asian Law Alliance and a member of the Coalition for
Justice and Accountability. They wrote this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday

And the American government exists for the benefit of, who?

BYLINE: By Frank Cimo Pacifica Tribune Colunist

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 687 words


Good morning Frank! I guess you've heard the news? It's been all over the radio
and TV! How exciting, huh! I know you and your pals are big advocates of
immigration reform so this ought to make you happy.

Huh, what? Whadda you talkin' about, Lisa? What immigration reform? You know I
don't turn on the news until I get here. What's going on?

Oh, it's just incredible! The U.S. just came out with a major, major overhaul in
our immigration policy. The Congress had a special, joint session that was held
in secrecy during the night until 6 am this morning. I even printed you out a
copy of all the details off the internet. Shall I run down to Aaron Brothers and
pick up a frame? I'm sure you'd like to hang it at your station.

Lisa, ya better not be pulling my leg. Read me what ya got there, I left my
glasses in the car...

Sure... Effective immediately, the United States has a single, new, streamlined
law that ensures that foreign visitors and immigrants are in the country
legally, and

1) Have the means to sustain themselves economically

2) Not destined to be burdens on society

3) Of economic and social benefit to society

4) Of good character and have no criminal records and contributors to the
general well-being of the nation.

The United States welcomes only foreigners who will be useful to American
society

*Foreigners are admitted into the United States, "according to their
possibilities of contributing to national progress." (Article 32)

*Immigration officials must "ensure" that "immigrants will be useful elements
for the country and that they have the necessary funds for their sustenance" and
for their dependents. (Article 34)

*Foreigners may be barred from the country if their presence upsets "the
equilibrium of the national demographics," when foreigners are deemed
detrimental to "economic or national interests," when they do not behave like
good citizens in their own country, when they have broken American laws, and
when "they are not found to be physically or mentally healthy." (Article 37)

*The national interest." (Article 38) - Authorities must keep track of every
single person in the country.

A National Population Government may "suspend or prohibit the admission of
foreigners when he determines it to be in the Registry keeps track of "every
single individual who comprises the population of the country," and verifies
each individual's identity. (Articles 85 and 86).

*A national Catalog of Foreigners tracks foreign tourists and immigrants
(Article 87), and assigns each individual with a unique tracking number (Article
91).

*Foreigners with fake immigration papers may be fined or imprisoned. (Article
116)

*Foreigners who are deported from the United States and attempt to re-enter the
country without authorization can be imprisoned for up to 10 years. (Article
118)

Under American law, illegal immigration is a felony. The General Law on
Population says:

*"A penalty of up to two years in prison and a fine of three hundred to five
thousand dollars will be imposed on the foreigner who enters the country
illegally." (Article 123)

(crash!)

Omigosh, he fainted! Frank, Frank, wake up! I was only kidding. I took all that
from the Mexican immigration laws. I just substituted the words Mexican for
American, Mexico for the United States and pesos for dollars. It was just an
April Fool's joke. Pretty funny, huh?

Huh, wha...an April Fool's joke!? Whadda ya nuts? This is November!

Uh, Happy Thanksgiving?

Lisa, ya killin' me!

Oh well, look at it on the bright side. I think their laws are entirely
reasonable   provided of course that you realize that the Mexican government
exists for the benefit of Mexicans, not us gringos.

I need an aspirin. Pour me a glass of water, would ya.

Can I still frame it and hang it?

Yeah.

Over your station?

No, in the bathroom.

With America's immigration laws that you have hanging up in there?

You got it.

"One of the critical issues that we have to confront is illegal immigration,
because this is a multi-headed Hydra that affects our economy, our health care,
our education systems, our national security, and also our local criminality."
-- Congressman Allen West (R-Fla.)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Dec. 1 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 809 words


Same immigration fight, but 25 years later

Nowhere in Ruben Navarrette's analysis (Opinion, Nov. 30) of Newt Gingrich's
immigration proposal does he mention border control, a critical component for
any immigration proposal to succeed.

True, the left and right need to grow up. Translation: presuming the
unattainable from our political elites. The lesson of the Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1986, which President Ronald Reagan signed into law, was that
there was a collapse of political will to enforce this law with employers. So
here we are again, 25 years later, having the same quarrel.

The first priority is to secure the borders with enforcement of existing
immigration laws while mandating, under heavy penalty, the use of tools such as
e-verify for all American employers without exception while insuring the
political will remain steadfast in this endeavor.

Tony Favero

Half Moon Bay

Stance on payroll taxes shows GOP favors rich

I find it very interesting that the Republicans who insisted on extending
Bush-era tax cuts that benefited the wealthy without a means to pay for them now
refuse to extend the reduction in payroll taxes that benefits the middle class
unless there is a corresponding reduction to pay for them. If there was any
doubt before, I think this clearly shows that the Republican Party is truly the
party of the 1 percent.

Howard Cannon

San Jose

Vote out legislators beholden to Norquist

I am a lifelong Republican and a fiscal conservative. However, I am fed up with
the hard-line position that Grover Norquist and the Americans for Tax Reform are
taking with the Republican Party. It is time for the elected officials to start
serving the people and not special interests. Our elected representatives fear
that if they go against the pledge that they signed on behalf of Norquist, he
and the ATR will fund a campaign to drive them from office. The voters need to
unshackle their hands by voting any representative that has signed the pledge
out of office for not representing voter interest. This country desperately
needs lawmakers who are beholden to the American people, not special interest
groups.

Steve Norman

San Jose

Bullet train should be killed immediately

The legislative analyst's stinging critique of the cost and viability of
California's proposed bullet train confirms what the vast majority of us knew
intuitively already. This is a boondoggle of the first order -- many, many times
the financial disaster of Santa Clara County's light rail system.

Kill the bullet train NOW.

Nick Cochran

San Jose

Occupy should protest in Sacramento, D.C.

The University of California's Sherry Lansing and Stanford University's Hoover
Institution have it right when they suggest that the protesters should take
their protests to Sacramento. The same can be said for the protesters throughout
the country. They should take their protests to Washington, D.C. Many of the
reasons for this recession and budget deficits in both California and the
country can and should be blamed on the elected governments of these two
capitals. Wall Street is not blameless, but the greater blame should be placed
on lawmakers in Washington, who passed laws allowing and even encouraging risky
investment strategies.

Bob Booth

Los Gatos

Supercommittee could learn from crabbers

I was impressed to hear that there are still good negotiators out there looking
out for the interests of all parties. Crab negotiators had a high of $2.50 per
pound and a low of $2 per pound, and both parties met in the middle at $2.25 per
pound. Both parties realized that with no negotiations everyone would lose. Now
if the deficit supercommittee took a page from the crab negotiators playbook, we
would have a deficit plan, and the United States along with the people would be
a lot better off. On the other hand, if the crab negotiators played the way
Congress plays, then there would be no negotiations, everyone would lose, and
then the politicians would try to make crab season open year-round (with still
no settlement). Good thing that I like crab.

Carl Boen

Sunnyvale

Analysis finds no hope in bullet train plans

The state's top analyst (Page 1A, Nov. 30) provides facts, not hope, about the
high-speed "to nowhere'' train. When our government has no money, this program
would waste $6 billion of our hard-earned taxes. This has been well-known by the
majority of California taxpayers for quite some time. Why will the train fail to
meet the optimistic expectations? The concept is flawed by not solving future
technical and financial problems running the prototype HSR from Fresno to
Bakersfield. Don't even think about the costs overcoming the environmental
obstacles through valuable farmland.

To Assemblyman Jose Solorio, D-Anaheim, I say, as a California taxpayer, we
welcome this opportunity to let this financial chaos slip through your hands.

Roland Rempel

Sunnyvale

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday

Opinion: Victor Davis Hanson: Drop the 'teachable moments' and get back to
nation's business

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 709 words


The president of the United States has it hard enough without needlessly wading
into, and fanning, local controversies. The economy is battered by sluggish
growth, high unemployment, record annual deficits and near-unsustainable
national debt. More than 50 percent of the people now disapprove of Barack
Obama's handling of these problems.

So why weigh in on hot-button issues that can only polarize people without
solving anything?

Last summer, Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates, a scholar of African-American
literature and history, got into a silly dispute with a local policeman. For
some reason, Obama rushed to judgment and gratuitously announced that police
Sgt. James Crowley and the local Cambridge, Mass., police had acted "stupidly."
For relish, he added that police wrongly stereotype in general. Obama supporters
wrote off the entire psychodrama as a "teachable moment."

Arizona recently passed a bill designed to enforce existing immigration law and
stop the enormous influx of illegal immigrants into the state. Various groups,
including the federal government, quickly made plans to sue the state. Yet
various polls indicated that 70 percent of Americans agreed with the Arizona
law, and dozens of states were planning similar legislation.

Nonetheless, the president also jumped into that acrimony -- well before the law
went into effect. Obama and his attorney general alleged that Arizonans were
promoting stereotyping, even though police were forbidden to question the
immigration status of those who had not come into prior contact with law
enforcement.

Most recently, Obama pontificated about the proposed mosque next to ground zero
in Lower Manhattan, in what his supporters might call a "teachable moment." The
issue is not a legal one. Both sides recognize the legal right of Muslims to
build mosques anywhere that local zoning ordinances permit them. Instead, the
controversy pertains to common decency, and the nature of the funding and
proponents of the project.

No matter: The president instead lectured his mostly Muslim audience that
America respects the rights of all religions -- again, not the issue in
question. A day later, in embarrassment, he backtracked a bit.

Where to start with all these teachable moments?

All these controversies involve issues addressed at the state and local level,
with presidential action unnecessary. In such contentious matters, why intervene
when Obama cannot do much other than polarize millions?

We have learned that Obama has a bad habit of impugning the motives of those
with whom he disagrees. In the Gates case, he rushed to condemn Crowley and the
police. Arizonans were not to be seen as desperate citizens trying to enforce
federal law, but instead derided as bigots who harass minorities when they go
out to get ice cream. And in the mosque case, the president disingenuously
implied that opponents of a ground zero mosque wanted to deny the legal right of
Muslims to build religious centers.

Note that all three issues poll badly for the president, and belie his former
image as a conciliator and healer.

Again, why does Obama go off-message to sermonize about these seemingly minor
things that so energize his opposition and make life difficult for his fellow
Democrats?

First, off-the-cuff pontificating on extraneous issues is a lot easier than
dealing with a bad economy, two wars and heightening tensions abroad.
Sermonizing is a lot different from rounding up votes in Congress, fending off
reporters at news conferences or dealing with aggressors abroad -- and it can
also turn our attention away from nearly 10 percent unemployment and a heavily
indebted government.

Second, Obama has spent most of his life around academics, lawyers, journalists
and organizers. That insular culture tends to pontificate and lecture others far
more than do action-oriented business people, soldiers, doctors and farmers --
the doers who are few and far between in this administration.

Obama should remember that successful presidents build bridges to solve national
and international problems. They leave polarizing local controversies to
divisive community organizers and partisan activists.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a syndicated columnist affiliated with the Hoover
Institution at Stanford University.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

San Jose man gets second chance at making case for political asylum

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez mgomez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 432 words


After spending weeks in detention and being threatened with deportation, Benny
Honorio finally received the news he has been waiting more than a year to hear.

The longtime South Bay resident has been granted a second chance by the federal
Board of Immigration Appeals to make his case for political asylum. Honorio's
attorney received the official letter Thursday.

Honorio, 44, is seeking asylum for fear that he could be tortured and killed
because of past political practices if he ever steps foot back in the
Philippines.

The decision means Honorio can remain in the United States legally until a
federal immigration judge rules on the political asylum request. Honorio has
been on supervised release since he was set free from a Yuba County jail on Oct.
5.

"It was a lot of work to get here, and it was a lot of stress for so many
people," said Rajat Kuver, Honorio's attorney. "I consider Benny to be a really
innocent victim in this whole process. He did everything that he we supposed to
do; he filed everything on time. It was simply a mistake made by somebody, and
then he was taken into custody."

That error, or miscommunication, was made by Honorio's previous attorney, who
gave Honorio the wrong time for a court hearing in March 2009, according to
Kuver. Honorio thought he had arrived early for the hearing but actually missed
the proceeding entirely. The judge held the hearing and ordered him deported.

Honorio could not be reached for comment, but Kuver said he was in "a state of
shock."

Honorio was released from a jail cell in Yuba County, where he was detained by
U.S. Immigration and Enforcement officials for 48 days and was close to being
deported, Kuver said.

When Honorio was first picked up by ICE officials, more than a dozen of his
friends and fellow church members wrote letters on his behalf, including a Santa
Clara city councilman and San Jose police officer.

For weeks, his friends and co-workers worried that he would be deported to the
Philippines, which would have meant he could not reapply for a new visa for 10
to 20 years.

Kuver credits the outpouring of community support for Honorio's outcome.

The next step on Honorio's journey will come in two to three months, when
Honorio's asylum hearing is expected to be scheduled.

If Honorio is granted asylum, he will be given work authorization and must apply
for a green card after one year, Kuver said. Once his green card is approved, a
process that takes six to 12 months, he will become a lawful, permanent
resident. Five years after that, he can apply to become a U.S. citizen.

Contact Mark Gomez at 408-920-5862.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Benito "Benny" Honorio is seeking political asylum in the United
States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday

Richmond will issue municipal ID cards

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 309 words


RICHMOND -- After shooting down the proposal several years ago, the City Council
unanimously approved a municipal identification program Tuesday.

The Richmond ID program, a version of which came before the council last month,
is designed to appeal to all residents by combining access to libraries, pools,
public transportation and other services.

Anyone who has lived in the city for 15 of the past 30 days will be eligible for
a picture ID, regardless of immigration status.

Councilwoman Jovanka Beckles said the program is a smart public safety measure
because it will encourage all residents to communicate with police and open bank
accounts.

"The municipal ID program will make our community safer," Beckles said. "It's a
way for us to be empowered."

The city already has a policy forbidding local law enforcement to assist with
immigration enforcement.

Critics, a few of whom spoke before the council Tuesday, argue that the new
program will entice illegal immigration and may give police license to hassle
native-born residents who would rather be anonymous for identification.

Several residents spoke in favor of the program Tuesday, and many more waved
Day-Glo "Viva Richmond" signs.

The new IDs will include a debit-card feature intended to help low-income people
avoid exorbitant check-cashing fees and discourage them from carrying large
amounts of cash.

The Council still needs to sign off on a second reading of the ordinance at its
next meeting, and it will likely be months before the program is up and running.

City leaders turned down a similar proposal in 2008, saying they wanted to wait
and watch how San Francisco implemented its program. In recent years, at least
five U.S. cities have approved similar identification programs, including
Oakland and San Francisco.

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her at Twitter.com/hannahdreier .

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday

Gov. Jerry Brown signs second part of Dream Act

BYLINE: By Steven Harmon Bay Area News Group © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News
Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News; State

LENGTH: 1278 words


SACRAMENTO -- Providing one of the most significant victories to the Latino
electorate in a generation, Gov. Jerry Brown on Saturday signed a bill allowing
undocumented students to apply for financial aid to state universities and
community colleges.

In signing the second, more contentious part of the Dream Act, AB 131, Brown
positioned himself squarely in the center of the divisive national debate over
immigrants' rights.

Conservatives immediately decried the move as providing scarce governmental
resources to illegal residents.

But Brown argued that students on the path to citizenship should have the same
access to public funding as citizens.

Under the new law, only those students who have graduated from a California high
school and proved they are applying to legalize their immigration status are
eligible.

"Going to college is a dream that promises intellectual excitement and creative
thinking," Brown said. "The Dream Act benefits us all by giving top students a
chance to improve their lives and the lives of all of us."

At the same time, Brown vetoed a bill, SB 185, that would have overridden the
voter-approved Proposition 209, which prohibits the University of California and
California State University systems to consider race, gender and ethnicity in
student admissions, hiring and contracting. Brown said in his veto message
Saturday that he agrees with the bill's goal but that the courts, not the
Legislature, should decide the limits of Proposition 209.

The bill became the focus of controversy after Republican students at UC
Berkeley held a bake sale in which cupcakes were priced according to gender and
ethnicity.

In all, the governor signed 69 bills and vetoed 18 -- leaving just under 200 to
go before Sunday's midnight deadline. Of 35 environmental bills that he signed,
one, AB 1112, raises the oil import fee for oil companies to bolster the state's
oil spill prevention fund.

The Dream Act will allow students to apply for Cal Grants and in-house aid from
the University of California, California State Universities and the state's 112
community colleges.

"This is the most progressive victory in a very long time for people in this
community," said the author of the two bills, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles. "Other efforts in the past were defensive, trying to stop draconian
proposals. We've been on our heels. But this is the most forward thinking and
comprehensive of all the Dream Acts in the country."

Tom Del Beccaro, Republican state party chairman, however, said it's the wrong
time to be subsidizing the education of illegal immigrants.

"The CSU system is eliminating 15,000 seats for students, so before we embark on
a program of helping citizens of other countries, Jerry Brown should look for
ways to shrink government, not to increase it," Del Beccaro said.

Many Republicans say the Dream Act undermines immigration laws and encourages
illegal immigration.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Claremont, who on his website announced plans to
place a referendum on the ballot to kill the Dream Act, has called it
"disastrous," predicting it will result in an expansion of cities that proclaim
themselves "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants.

The issue is sure to rouse the base of both major parties, said Jack Pitney, a
government professor at Claremont McKenna College.

"I expect John and Ken will have a few things to say on Monday," Pitney said,
referring to the influential conservative Southern California radio talk-show
hosts.

Brown had previously signed AB 130, which gave undocumented students the ability
to seek private financial aid.

An estimated 2,500 undocumented students will become eligible for the Cal
Grants, according to the California Department of Finance, at a cost of $14.5
million. That represents 1 percent of the $1.4 billion in financial aid allotted
to California students. The bill analysis, however, projected higher annual
costs to the state -- between $23 million and $40 million.

Funds for the financial aid will become available to undocumented students on
Jan. 1, 2013.

Mario Lopez, a 23-year-old public policy graduate student at UC Berkeley, said
he's been struggling to pursue his studies and had to drop out at one point
because he didn't have the money. He called the new law a victory for students
like him.

"It's a sense of inclusion and acceptance," Lopez said. "This puts it into the
forefront of how everyone deserves an education, even undocumented students."

The issue may not have the same divisive force it had two decades ago in
California, said Dan Schnur, director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of
Politics at USC.

"There's no question both bills are very controversial, but they might be less
risky and divisive for the governor than they would have been several years
ago," Schnur said. "Five years ago, it was risky. Twenty years ago, it might
have been political suicide. But today, there's not much political impact on
Brown one way or the other."

After 20 years of polling showing overwhelming support for withholding public
services to undocumented residents, a poll last year showed California evenly
divided, Schnur said. That can be attributed to the growing Latino population,
but also the sympathy of younger, white voters.

In fact, while Latino groups hailed Brown's signature, they saw it as just one
step toward their broader goal of winning approval of the Dream Act in Congress,
which includes a path to citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants.
"This victory shows California is not going to be taking a shortsighted and
mean-minded step as it has been in other places," said Reshma Shamasunder,
director of the California Immigrant Policy Center. "We have to make sure these
policies advance in Washington, D.C."

In vetoing SB 185, Brown said he agreed "wholeheartedly" with the goals of
allowing universities to consider race, gender and ethnicity. The courts,
though, should be the final arbiter, he said.

Indeed, a case is now pending in the federal 9th Circuit Court of Appeals.

"Signing this bill is unlikely to impact how Proposition 209 is ultimately
interpreted by the courts," Brown wrote. "It will just encourage the 209
advocates to file more costly and confusing lawsuits."

Under AB 1112, the state Office of Spill Prevention and Response will be
required to step up efforts to oversee high risk vessel-to-vessel oil transfers.
The bill also gives the agency the authority to increase the fee oil companies
pay per barrel to import oil into California from 5 cents to 6.5 cents, through
2015. The money funds oil spills safety programs.

The fund had been projected to run a $5.2 million deficit in the next fiscal
year. With the added funding, the state will not have to lay off oil spill
safety workers.

"We know that oil spills can have a devastating impact on sea lions, harbor
seals, migrating birds, local endangered shorebirds and the struggling herring
and leopard shark populations" said Deb Self, executive director of San
Francisco Baykeeper. "California's programs to prevent and respond to oil spills
simply must be fully funded."

Contact Steven Harmon at 916-441-2101. Follow him at Twitter.com/ssharmon . Read
the Political Blotter at IBAbuzz.com/politics .

Governor SIGNS 69, VETOES 18

More than 600 bills made it to Gov. Jerry Brown's desk in the final days of the
legislative session, which ended Sept. 9. He has until midnight Sunday to sign
or veto bills. If he does neither, they automatically become law.
On Saturday, Brown signed 69 bills and vetoed 18. In total, he has signed 356
and vetoed 63.
Find the governor's actions on the governor's website at Governor Brown Issues
Legislative Update:
 http://gov.ca.gov/s_pressreleases.php

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 1, 2009 Tuesday

Santa Clara University receives federal grant to stop human trafficking

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez jrodriguez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Education; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 417 words


A nonprofit law center at Santa Clara University has won a $300,000 federal
grant to help victims of human trafficking who were promised a shot at the
America dream only to be abused and betrayed.

The U.S. State Department recently said about 17,500 people are trafficked into
the country every year; the SCU law center described trafficking as a
little-known but persistent problem in the South Bay.

"This is the closest thing we have in America to modern-day slavery," Lynette
Parker, an immigration lawyer with the university's Katharine & George Alexander
Community Law Center, said in a statement announcing the grant Tuesday.

The two-year grant from the U.S. Department of Justice will help the law center
represent more victims and help pay for counseling, housing and even clothing.
Victims of human smuggling and abuse tend to be undocumented immigrants eligible
for legal residency if their cases are pursued by police and prosecutors.

The law center says local victims tend be female immigrants brought here legally
or illegally under false pretenses by friends, relatives or smugglers posing as
legitimate employers or contractors. Promised decent jobs in restaurants, homes
or farms, the victims are instead forced to work long hours at little or no pay
and, in some cases, raped or forced into the sex trade.

Sergio Lopez, a spokesman for the law center, said its lawyers have represented
25 to 30 alleged victims in the South Bay since taking on its first human
trafficking case in 2003. While that involved an overworked and underpaid Palo
Alto housekeeper from Kenya, most victims today are women from Latin America or
Asia.

Lopez said trafficking in the valley is hard to measure because many victims
fear retaliation if they come forward.

"These folks have been through a lot of trauma,'' he said, "and the last thing
they want to do is attract the attention of the perpetrators. There's a genuine
fear among our clients."

The law center intends to share the grant with other organizations, including
the YWCA Rape Crisis center and the South Bay Coalition to End Human
Trafficking. The coalition also works with a San Jose Police Department task
force to stop human trafficking.

Patty Bennett, a member of the coalition, said the money will help buy basic
necessities and "make life just a little easier after their ordeal."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767.

for more information

For more information about human trafficking in Silicon Valley, go to
www.sbcteht.com or www.sjpd.org/StopHT/ .

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday

Despite economy, Americans don't want farm work

BYLINE: By Garance Burke Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1056 words


VISALIA -- As the economy tanked during the past two years, a debate has raged
over whether immigrants are taking jobs that Americans want. Here, amid the
sweltering vineyards of the largest farm state, the answer is no.

Most Americans simply don't apply for jobs harvesting fruits and vegetables in
California, where one of every eight people is out of work, according to
government data for a federal seasonal farmworker program analyzed by The
Associated Press.

And the few unemployed Americans who apply through official channels usually
don't stay on in the fields, a point comedian Stephen Colbert -- dressed as a
field hand -- has alluded to in recent broadcasts on Comedy Central.

"It's just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and
move here to do," said farmer Steve Fortin, who pays $10.25 an hour to foreign
workers to trim strawberry plants for six weeks each summer at his nursery near
the Nevada border. He has spent $3,000 this year ensuring domestic workers have
first dibs on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state,
advertising in newspapers and on an electronic job registry.

But he hasn't had any takers, and only one farmer in the state hired anyone
using a little-known, little-used program to hire foreign farmworkers the legal
way -- by applying for guest worker visas.

Since January, California farmers have posted ads for 1,160 farmworker positions
open to U.S. citizens and legal residents seeking work.

Only 233 people applied after being linked with the jobs through unemployment
offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona. One grower brought on 36 U.S
citizens or legal permanent residents. No one else hired any.

"It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,"
said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department's
agricultural services unit. "If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they
might change their mind."

The California figures represent a small sample of efforts to recruit domestic
workers under the H-2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a snapshot of how
hard it is to lure Americans to farm labor -- and to get growers to use the
program.

Fortin is one of just 23 of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers
in California who petitioned this year to bring in foreign farmworkers through
legal means, the government data showed. The Labor Department did not respond to
a request for comment about the findings.

More than half of farmworkers in the United States are illegal immigrants,
according to the Labor Department, and another fourth of them were born outside
the country. Proponents of tougher immigration laws -- as well as the United
Farm Workers of America -- say farmers are used to a cheap, largely undocumented
work force, and say if growers raised wages and improved working conditions, the
jobs would attract Americans.

So far, a tongue-in-cheek effort by Colbert and the UFW to get Americans to take
farm jobs has been more effective in attracting applicants than the official
channels.

The UFW in June launched the "Take Our Jobs Campaign," inviting people to go
online and apply.

About 8,600 people filled out an application form, but only 7 have been placed
in farm jobs, UFW President Arturo Rodriguez said.

Colbert joked to a House Congressional committee Friday that spending a day
picking beans in upstate New York for an episode was "really, really hard."

Colbert's comedic activism makes a point Fortin is familiar with. Some Americans
referred for jobs at his nursery couldn't to do the grueling work.

"A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absentee
problems, and we had people asking for time off after they had just started," he
said. "Some were actually planting the plants upside down."

Economists have long argued over whether local workers would take jobs in the
field if wages rose. Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural and resource
economics at the University of California, Davis, said because so few farmers
participate in the H-2A program, the data's limitations make it hard to draw
national conclusions. Under current conditions, the figures show the work force
will remain almost entirely immigrant, he said.

"Recruitment of U.S. workers in this program doesn't work well primarily because
employers have already identified who they want to bring in from abroad," Martin
said. "I don't think a lot of U.S. workers are going out there looking for a
seasonal job paying the minimum wage or a dollar more."

The Labor Department collects the same data about H-2A visa applications for all
50 states, but does not make it publicly available. In response to a Freedom of
Information Act request from AP, the agency said it would provide some records
for nearly $11,000, but it was not clear whether the information would show how
many Americans had applied for farm labor jobs nationwide.

Even California officials say the guest worker program needs fixing, despite a
reform effort announced in February by Labor Secretary Hilda Solis meant to
boost efforts to fill crop-picking jobs first with domestic workers.

Benjamin Reynosa, who was picking ruby-colored grapes in 90-degree heat near
Fowler Friday morning, said he often is the only U.S. legal resident on seasonal
crews. He said most people hear about the jobs through word of mouth or signs
tacked outside rural stores, not the electronic registry.

"I've been working in agriculture for 22 years and I can tell you there are very
few gringos out here," said Reynosa, 49, of Orange Cove, said. "If people know
English, they go to work in packinghouses or sit in an office."

In Tulare County, where the unemployment rate is above 16 percent, job seekers
on a recent morning crowded around computers at the job development agency.
Staff appeared unaware the guest worker program required them to advertise the
jobs.

"We just don't advertise those kinds of farmworker jobs," said Sandi Miller,
program coordinator for the county's work force investment board.

Amid the U.S. Army flyers posted in the lobby, however, under the heading "HOT
JOB LEADS" was an ad for a farmworker position, preferring someone with Spanish
fluency and tractor maintenance skills.

Miller said later it was the first she had seen such a notice. She hadn't
received any applications, she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 24, 2009 Thursday

H-1B visas see slow demand but finally reach limit

BYLINE: By Pete Carey pcarey@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Technology; News; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 689 words


After a slow start because of the recession, applications for the high-tech
industry's favorite work visa, the H-1B, reached the annual cap of 65,000 this
month, federal immigration authorities said this week.

The announcement by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services might appear
to be one more sign of an economy on the mend, but compared with previous years,
applications for the normally popular   and controversial   work visa have moved
at a snail's pace.

It took nine months to exhaust the supply of visas this year, and a mere day to
do so last year. There was only light demand for the visa in April, when the
government started taking applications for this fiscal year's quota, but
employers finally used them all up in a sign that perhaps high-tech hiring was
rebounding.

"The economy is starting to pick up a little," observed Deborah Notkin, an
immigration attorney and business visa expert for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association.

The visas are issued to employers to hire foreign workers in occupations that
require theoretical or technical expertise in fields such as science,
engineering and computer programming. They are good for three years and
renewable for another three. The visas are especially popular with Silicon
Valley high-tech companies such as Cisco Systems, Oracle and Google, which use
them to attract talent from around the globe.

But they are also controversial, touching on sensitive issues of immigration,
U.S. competitiveness and whether American workers are forced out of jobs in
favor of those from foreign countries.

U.S. Sens. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and Dick Durbin, D-Ill., have investigated
abuses of the visa in recent years, but proponents of the visa say the caps are
unnecessary and harm U.S. competitiveness.

"It's such an artificial cap," Notkin said. "Even in a recession, it doesn't
help our economy to be globally competitive."

Notkin said she was concerned that "the media and a couple senators are
overplaying" problems with the H-1B program "and are going to kill it. The
challenge is how to keep it and get rid of abusers, which are a minority."

Roy Beck, president of Numbers USA, a group that favors immigration
restrictions, said the visa is too often used to bring in average rather than
top talent. "We don't advocate reducing the 65,000 cap," he said. "We just
advocate increasing the criteria so H-1Bs are only used to hire really top
quality programmers."

There are an additional 20,000 visas set aside for foreign citizens who have
graduated from U.S. universities with advanced degrees. These applicants are
rolled over to the regular visa program after reaching their quota. The total
this year was not available.

The number of H-1B visas issued far exceeds the 65,000 cap because universities
and their affiliates, nonprofits and government research organizations are
exempt from the limit. Combined, more than 276,000 H-1B visas were issued in
fiscal year 2008, according to USCIS's most current data. For fiscal year 2009,
Wipro, an information technology service company based in Bangalore, India, was
the top user, with 1,964 visas, followed by Microsoft, with 1,318 visas. Intel
was No. 3, with 723. Among the many other tech industry or valley users are
Cisco, Oracle, Google, Yahoo, Apple and Stanford University.

With the year's quota exhausted, employers must wait until next April to file
new applications. Next year's visa holders won't start work until Oct. 1, the
beginning of the federal fiscal year.

Carl Guardino, president and CEO of the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, said
the slow pace of applications this year showed "how weak the American economy
has been this past year.

"But in a valley in which 53 percent of our engineers are foreign born, and more
than half of the founders or CEOs of technology companies being foreign born, it
underscores the need for talent from around the globe to compete globally."

Contact Pete Carey at 408-920-5419.

BIG H-1B USERS

The top five Silicon Valley
companies directly receiving H-1B visas in fiscal 2009:

Intel

723

Cisco Systems

308

Oracle

272

Google

211

Yahoo

183
Source: U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 23, 2010 Wednesday

Need a job? UFW offers training for farmwork

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 690 words


Unemployed city folk could soon find work picking strawberries and peaches if a
new farmworker campaign is taken seriously.

In an unorthodox appeal called "Take Our Jobs," the United Farm Workers of
America wants jobless citizens and legal residents to seek farm jobs that
usually go to migrant workers living in the United States illegally.



"One of the most honorable ways of earning a living is off the sweat of your
brow," said Michael Rubio, a Kern County supervisor backing the campaign. "I"m
looking forward to seeing who might take advantage of it."

Will the jobless in urban and suburban America heed the call, or is the union
cofounded by Cesar Chavez simply sending a message that the nation desperately
needs the scores of undocumented workers who harvest its fields?

Labor leaders say they are trying to spotlight the importance of immigrant
workers and the need for agricultural reform, but they are also serious. They
wrote a letter to lawmakers pledging that farm workers are "ready to train
citizens and legal residents who wish to replace immigrants in the fields."

"The opportunity will be provided for people to go work in the fields," Rubio
said. "I think it"s real."

The union will be asking members of Congress to direct their constituents to
United Farm Workers (UFW) offices throughout California and the country. The
closest offices for Bay Area residents are in Santa Rosa and Salinas.

Michael Rubio "Employers will be on hand at each site to answer questions, meet
prospective employees and assist in the application process," said a statement
from the organization. "All who are interested or unemployed and are legal
residents or U.S. citizens are encouraged to apply."

Arturo Rodriguez, the president of the UFW, and his staff declined to elaborate
until they hold a news conference Thursday afternoon. They are already scheduled
to take the cause to "The Colbert Report" on Comedy Central next month.

Rubio, who is also a state Senate candidate, said he hopes the campaign also
brings some attention to the need for the federal AgJobs immigration bill that
would legalize undocumented farm workers. The farmworker union, in a rare
partnership with the farm industry, has been fighting for the bill"s passage for
years.

Salinas farm labor contractor Paul Powell had not heard about the "Take Our
Jobs" campaign Wednesday, but said he doubted that most unemployed Californians
would be up to the challenge.

"There may be a lot of folks who show up and don"t stay for more than a day or
two," Powell said. "They don"t realize how hard the work is. Field work is not
easy."

He added that farmers face a host of problems in California, from water
shortages to tough labor regulations, but a lack of workers has not been a major
issue for him. He directs operations at Foothill Packing, which employs about
900 migrant farm workers across the state.

"We"ve really not experienced any shortage of labor once the winter season was
done," Powell said. "We stay fairly constant."

California farmworkers typically get $8 to $9 an hour, often for six days a week
over a period of about four or five months in a year, and most Americans would
not want their jobs, said Manuel Cunha, president of the Fresno-based Nisei
Farmers League, an advocate for farmers.

Cunha said his group is not involved in the campaign, but agreed with the
message the UFW is trying to send.

"Come out here and climb the ladder, pick tomatoes, and oh, by the way, you"ve
got to prune, and oh, by the way, it"s seasonal work so you have to move all
over the place," Cunha said. "They"re trying to put the point across " it may be
humorous, but the serious part is people have lost the work ethics in this
country."

He said the campaign resembles a program in the 1990s, when a severe farmworker
shortage in California caused the state and farm industry to encourage former
welfare recipients to apply for farm jobs. Of the tens of thousands of eligible
people, Cunha said only a few hundred applied.

"It was an absolute wreck," he said. "People were not that hungry. "... It was
the biggest failure, but we showed that U.S. workers aren"t going to take those
jobs."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday

Despite economy, Americans don't want farm work

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1052 words


VISALIA -- As the economy tanked during the past two years, a debate has raged
over whether immigrants are taking jobs that Americans want. Here, amid the
sweltering vineyards of the largest farm state, the answer is no.

Most Americans simply don't apply for jobs harvesting fruits and vegetables in
California, where one of every eight people is out of work, according to
government data for a federal seasonal farmworker program analyzed by The
Associated Press.

And the few unemployed Americans who apply through official channels usually
don't stay on in the fields, a point comedian Stephen Colbert -- dressed as a
field hand -- has alluded to in recent broadcasts on Comedy Central.

"It's just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and
move here to do," said farmer Steve Fortin, who pays $10.25 an hour to foreign
workers to trim strawberry plants for six weeks each summer at his nursery near
the Nevada border. He has spent $3,000 this year ensuring domestic workers have
first dibs on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state,
advertising in newspapers and on an electronic job registry.

But he hasn't had any takers, and only one farmer in the state hired anyone
using a little-known, little-used program to hire foreign farmworkers the legal
way -- by applying for guest worker visas.

Since January, California farmers have posted ads for 1,160 farmworker positions
open to U.S. citizens and legal residents seeking work.

Only 233 people applied after being linked with the jobs through unemployment
offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona. One grower brought on 36 U.S
citizens or legal permanent residents. No one else hired any.

"It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,"
said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department's
agricultural services unit. "If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they
might change their mind."

The California figures represent a small sample of efforts to recruit domestic
workers under the H-2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a snapshot of how
hard it is to lure Americans to farm labor -- and to get growers to use the
program.

Fortin is one of just 23 of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers
in California who petitioned this year to bring in foreign farmworkers through
legal means, the government data showed. The Labor Department did not respond to
a request for comment about the findings.

More than half of farmworkers in the United States are illegal immigrants,
according to the Labor Department, and another fourth of them were born outside
the country. Proponents of tougher immigration laws -- as well as the United
Farm Workers of America -- say farmers are used to a cheap, largely undocumented
work force, and say if growers raised wages and improved working conditions, the
jobs would attract Americans.

So far, a tongue-in-cheek effort by Colbert and the UFW to get Americans to take
farm jobs has been more effective in attracting applicants than the official
channels.

The UFW in June launched the "Take Our Jobs Campaign," inviting people to go
online and apply.

About 8,600 people filled out an application form, but only 7 have been placed
in farm jobs, UFW President Arturo Rodriguez said.

Colbert joked to a House Congressional committee Friday that spending a day
picking beans in upstate New York for an episode was "really, really hard."

Colbert's comedic activism makes a point Fortin is familiar with. Some Americans
referred for jobs at his nursery couldn't do the grueling work.

"A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absentee
problems, and we had people asking for time off after they had just started," he
said. "Some were actually planting the plants upside down."

Economists have long argued over whether local workers would take jobs in the
field if wages rose. Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural and resource
economics at theUC Davis, said because so few farmers participate in the H-2A
program, the data's limitations make it hard to draw national conclusions. Under
current conditions, the figures show the work force will remain almost entirely
immigrant, he said.

"Recruitment of U.S. workers in this program doesn't work well primarily because
employers have already identified who they want to bring in from abroad," Martin
said. "I don't think a lot of U.S. workers are going out there looking for a
seasonal job paying the minimum wage or a dollar more."

The Labor Department collects the same data about H-2A visa applications for all
50 states, but does not make it publicly available. In response to a Freedom of
Information Act request from AP, the agency said it would provide some records
for nearly $11,000, but it was not clear whether the information would show how
many Americans had applied for farm labor jobs nationwide.

Even California officials say the guest worker program needs fixing, despite a
reform effort announced in February by Labor Secretary Hilda Solis meant to
boost efforts to fill crop-picking jobs first with domestic workers.

Benjamin Reynosa, who was picking ruby-colored grapes in 90-degree heat near
Fowler on Friday morning, said he often is the only U.S. legal resident on
seasonal crews. He said most people hear about the jobs through word of mouth or
signs tacked outside rural stores, not the electronic registry.

"I've been working in agriculture for 22 years and I can tell you there are very
few gringos out here," Reynosa, 49, of Orange Cove, said. "If people know
English, they go to work in packinghouses or sit in an office."

In Tulare County, where the unemployment rate is above 16 percent, job seekers
on a recent morning crowded around computers at the job development agency.
Staff appeared unaware the guest worker program required them to advertise the
jobs.

"We just don't advertise those kinds of farmworker jobs," said Sandi Miller,
program coordinator for the county's work force investment board.

Amid the U.S. Army flyers posted in the lobby, however, under the heading "HOT
JOB LEADS" was an ad for a farmworker position, preferring someone with Spanish
fluency and tractor maintenance skills.

Miller said later it was the first she had seen such a notice. She hadn't
received any applications, she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

Peninsula, South Bay salon chain sued by immigrant workers

BYLINE: By Joshua Melvin jmelvin@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 438 words


SAN MATEO -- Immigrant workers at a chain of nail salons in the South Bay and on
the Peninsula were forced to pay for accidentally broken bottles of nail polish
and had to turn over a portion of their tips to managers, according to a lawsuit
filed Tuesday.

The workers at Natalie Salon locations in San Mateo, Redwood City, Menlo Park,
Palo Alto and Los Gatos would sometimes work seven days a week without legally
mandated overtime pay, said Winnie Kao, an attorney representing them.
Management routinely kept 20 percent of tips left for the workers on credit card
payments and didn't allow them to take a lunch break, according to the suit
filed Tuesday in San Mateo County Superior Court.

Anh Dong, a co-owner of the chain, referred questions Tuesday to a man she
described as her brother. When reached by phone, the man said he would comment
later on the suit.

Kao, who works for San Francisco-based watchdog group Asian Law Caucus, said the
workers are all Vietnamese women who have been in the United States for various
periods of time. They are among many Asian women who have gravitated toward the
nail and beauty industry, she said. Kao said the training is relatively quick,
English language skills are not essential, and workers have the comfort of being
with compatriots.

However, managers are accused of fining Natalie Salon workers for small
infractions like gathering at the front desk or failing to record that a foot
bath had been cleaned. Kao contends these wage garnishments are illegal. Workers
also had their pay docked due to minor accidents, like breaking a nail polish
bottle during the course of work -- even when it wasn't their fault.

"It is kind of crazy to be docked for your customers' dropping nail polish," Kao
said. "It is a completely innocuous accident."

The women began talking to one another and eventually sought help at an outreach
event put on by the Asian Law Caucus. Kao said she has not tabulated the
potential amount of money owed to the women and declined to estimate. However,
she said she believes at least 50 workers have been subjected to such treatment.

So far, three current employees -- Bich Pham, Lilian Nguyen and Evelyn Nguyen --
have joined the suit. Former worker Vicky Tran is also a plaintiff in the case.
They are asking to be certified as a class so they can pursue a class-action
lawsuit. The women have asked for a jury trial.

"By bringing this case, I just want Natalie Salon to correctly pay me and the
other women who work there for the work that we've done and to follow the law,"
plaintiff Vicky Tran said in a written statement.

Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Peninsula, South Bay salon chain sued by immigrant workers

BYLINE: By Joshua Melvin jmelvin@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; News

LENGTH: 443 words


SAN MATEO -- Immigrant workers at a chain of nail salons in the South Bay and on
the Peninsula were forced to pay for accidentally broken bottles of nail polish
and had to turn over a portion of their tips to managers, according to a lawsuit
filed Tuesday.

The workers at Natalie Salon locations in San Mateo, Redwood City, Menlo Park,
Palo Alto and Los Gatos would sometimes work seven days a week without legally
mandated overtime pay, said Winnie Kao, an attorney representing them.
Management routinely kept 20 percent of tips left for the workers on credit card
payments and didn't allow them to take a lunch break, according to the suit
filed Tuesday in San Mateo County Superior Court.

Anh Dong, a co-owner of the chain, referred questions Tuesday to a man named
Bill, who she said is her brother. When reached by phone, Bill promised to call
back with comment on the suit. As of Tuesday evening, he had not returned the
call.

Kao, who works for San Francisco-based watchdog group Asian Law Caucus, said the
workers are all Vietnamese women who have been in the United States for varying
periods of time. They are among many Asian women who have gravitated toward the
nail and beauty industry. Kao said the training is relatively quick, English
language skills are not essential, and workers have the comfort of being with
compatriots.

However, managers allegedly fined the Natalie Salon workers for small
infractions like gathering at the front desk or failing to record that a foot
bath has been cleaned. Kao contends these wage garnishments are illegal. Workers
also had their pay docked due to minor accidents, like breaking a nail polish
bottle during the course of work -- even when it wasn't their fault.

"It is kind of crazy to be docked for your customers' dropping nail polish," Kao
said. "It is a completely innocuous accident."

The women began talking to one another and eventually sought help at an outreach
event put on by the Asian Law Caucus. Kao said she has not tabulated the
potential amount of money owed to the women and declined to estimate.

However, she believes at least 50 workers have been subjected to the same
treatment.

So far three current employees -- Bich Pham, Lilian Nguyen and Evelyn Nguyen --
have joined the suit. Former worker Vicky Tran is also a plaintiff in the case.
They are asking to be certified as a class so they can pursue a class-action
lawsuit. The women have demanded a jury trial.

"By bringing this case, I just want Natalie Salon to correctly pay me and the
other women who work there for the work that we've done and to follow the law,"
Tran said in a written statement.

Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday

2 people smuggled into US crammed in Mercedes

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; National; State

LENGTH: 133 words


SAN DIEGO   U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers say they found two
people being smuggled into the country stuffed inside hidden compartments of a
Mercedes-Benz at the U.S.-Mexico border near San Diego.

Authorities said today that a young woman was unresponsive when pulled out of a
side compartment of the car after midnight Saturday at the Otay Mesa Port of
Entry.

The 26-year-old woman was also treated for a large burn on her leg.

Officers also found a 39-year-old man curled in a fetal position behind another
panel. He was sweating profusely and needed help to stand.

Officials say a drug-detection dog that noticed something in the car's fender
prompted the search.

The driver was arrested. The two undocumented immigrants were held as witnesses.


Information from: The San Diego Union-Tribune

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Police arrest suspected smuggler in Mountain View kidnapping case

BYLINE: By Diana Samuels Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 581 words


A suspected smuggler is in custody after a 32-year-old Mexican woman was
kidnapped in Mountain View on Sunday because her family couldn't pay the money
he demanded, police said.

Police spokeswoman Liz Wylie said Monday that authorities believe the woman is
an illegal immigrant who was living in Malin, Ore., but returned to Mexico to
visit her parents. When she could not get back into the U.S., family members
pooled $3,300 to hire a smuggler to bring her to Mountain View, where her sister
and other relatives live.

The smuggler was supposed to take the woman all the way to Mountain View, Wylie
said, but abandoned her across the border in Arizona -- a common practice for
smugglers, known in Mexico as "coyotes."

"They basically skip out on the rest of their duties and take the money and
run," Wylie said. "Then other people step in and it's their job in this network
of criminals to extort more money."

It's not clear what happened to the woman after she was left in Arizona, Wylie
said, but coyotes usually keep border crossers in "very deplorable conditions."

"She had some pretty extensive sores and bruises and things on her body," Wylie
said, "Not from the guy she was with ... but from something else in this
process."

Ultimately, 26-year-old Nicandro Aparicio, of Alabaster, Ariz., brought the
woman to Elmwood and Washington streets in Mountain View at about 4 p.m. Sunday,
Wylie said.

There, he forced her to stay in the car, a blue Nissan Altima, while he demanded
an additional $800 from her family. They couldn't pay, so he sped off with her,
driving onto the sidewalk because a car was blocking his way, Wylie said. On
Monday, tire tracks were still visible in a rain-soaked lawn on Elmwood Street.

The family called police, and an officer at the junction of Highway 237 and
Highway 101 spotted the Altima. He followed it south until other Mountain View
and California Highway Patrol officers could join him to provide backup. They
eventually pulled the car over on Trimble Road in San Jose, near the Highway 101
off-ramp, and Aparicio was arrested, Wylie said. No weapons were recovered.

Aparicio was booked into Santa Clara County jail on suspicion of kidnapping. He
is also an illegal immigrant, Wylie said, and Immigration and Customs
Enforcement has placed him under a hold so he cannot be released.

The woman was not harmed and was returned to her family, Wylie said. Though the
woman is here illegally, Wylie said it is up to federal immigration authorities
-- not the Mountain View Police Department -- to decide whether she will be
deported. A federal visa is available for victims of violent crimes, she added.

"(Mountain View police) don't care about your immigration status," Wylie said.
"If you are a victim of a crime in Mountain View, we are here to help you. ...
Our stance has always been -- and needs to be -- we are here to apply services
equally."

Wylie said she has not heard of any similar cases in the eight years she's
worked in Mountain View, but said these types of crimes often go unreported
because families are worried it could lead to deportation or retaliation from
the smugglers' networks.

In this case, Wylie said, the woman's relatives felt they had to call police
because they were "afraid for her life."

"They were very afraid of what might happen (if they reported it), but they were
very concerned they might never see her again," Wylie said. "(Aparicio) told
them 'You'll never see her again.'"

Email Diana Samuels at dsamuels@dailynewsgroup.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 23, 2009 Wednesday

Southern California pastor accused of student visa conspiracy

BYLINE: By Amy Taxin Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; State

LENGTH: 492 words


SANTA ANA   A Southern California pastor has been accused by immigration
authorities of helping foreigners fraudulently obtain student visas and handing
out phony diplomas at a fake graduation ceremony on a campus where they never
attended class.

Samuel Chai Cho Oh, 65, surrendered to authorities Tuesday and faces a charge of
conspiracy to commit visa fraud for allegedly charging foreigners cash to help
get them student visas on the premise they would attend the Christian university
he owns in Fullerton.

But more than 100 students from countries including South Korea, Thailand and
Japan never took classes at California Union University, which served as a shell
for them to stay in the country legally, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
officials said.

"He found a way to circumvent the system," said Joseph Macias, assistant special
agent in charge for ICE's office of investigations in Orange County. "His greed
and his financial gain won (out) over the visa program."

Adriaan F. van der Capellen, Oh's attorney, said the university did in fact
exist and his client was not guilty.

"He's a good man and doesn't know anything about any of this," van der Capellen
said.

Immigration authorities say Oh charged students between $600 and $10,000 over
the last decade to file paperwork on their behalf to certify they had been
accepted to the university and would be attending class in order to obtain valid
student visas.

Authorities said Oh raked in between $40,000 and $50,000 a month from the
alleged scheme and acknowledged that 75 percent of the 300 students enrolled at
the university did not regularly attend class.

Macias said authorities seized two bank accounts belonging to Oh that combined
held more than $400,000.

According to a court affidavit, several Korean citizens said they paid Oh for
paperwork to support their student visas so they could stay in the country
legally but suspected the university was a sham. Young Rim Shin told
investigators her paperwork indicated she studied computer science but she never
took classes on campus and Oh told her to study at home or online, the affidavit
said.

Oh, a Korea-born pastor who founded the university in 1979, appeared in federal
court in Santa Ana this afternoon. He was released on $30,000 bail and will be
subject to electronic monitoring, said Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S.
attorney's office.

A preliminary hearing has been set for Jan. 13.

California Union University was originally founded as a Christian seminary but
later broadened its course offerings to include education and Oriental medicine,
according to the school's Web site.

In October, the school lost the right to petition for student visas as a result
of the investigation, court papers said.

No one answered a call to the campus today.

No criminal charges have been filed against the students, authorities said.
Macias said those who are not eligible to stay in the country legally will face
deportation proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 14, 2010 Thursday

Church, immigrant groups plan to airlift Haitian orphans to South Florida

BYLINE: By Alfonso Chardy and Sergio Bustos McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 355 words


MIAMI   In a move mirroring Operation Pedro Pan in the 1960s, Catholic Charities
and other South Florida immigrant rights organizations are planning an ambitious
effort to airlift possibly thousands of Haitian children left orphaned in the
aftermath of Tuesday's horrific earthquake.

"We will use the model we used 40 years ago with Pedro Pan to bring these
orphans to the United States to give them a lifeline, a bright and hopeful
future," Catholic Charities Legal Services executive director Randolph McGrorty
said Thursday at a news conference in the offices of Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart.

"Given the enormity of what happened in Haiti, a priority is to bring these
orphaned children to the United States," he said.

Archdiocese of Miami officials and other local organizations have already
identified a temporary shelter in Broward County to house the children, McGrorty
said.

He also said they had been in contact with the Obama administration to assist in
bringing the children from Haiti with humanitarian visas.

Operation Pedro Pan was launched on Dec. 26, 1960, as part of a successful
clandestine effort to spirit children out of Fidel Castro's new Cuba as
communist indoctrination was spreading into Catholic and private schools.

By the time it ended 22 months later, the unique exodus of children ages 5 to 17
had brought 14,048 unaccompanied Cuban minors to America, with the secret help
of the U.S. government, which funded the effort and supplied the visa waivers,
and the Catholic church, which promised to care for the children.

The late Monsignor Bryan O. Walsh, a Miami priest, was considered the father of
the effort.

As the children filtered into Miami and their numbers swelled, many went to live
with relatives and family friends, but others were sent to Miami-Dade group
homes and camps called Florida City, Kendall and Matecumbe. They were then
relocated across the country to archdioceses in places like Nebraska, Washington
and Indiana.

There, they went to live in orphanages, foster homes and schools until their
parents could find a way out of Cuba. Sometimes the separation was brief;
sometimes it lasted years.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday

Wish Book readers help out

BYLINE: By Holly Hayes hhayes@mercurynews.com

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 861 words


Stories that appear in the Mercury News' annual Wish Book series often stir
emotional reactions in readers.

For Sophie Stallman of Portola Valley, the Dec. 15 story about Cambodian
immigrant Chantan In and her quest to become a U.S. citizen brought back "tender
memories."

"In 1961, I was a single mother with two children, 34 years old applying for
citizenship," wrote Stallman in a letter that accompanied her check to help In
and other legal permanent residents take that next step. "After suffering
through the German occupation in Poland during World War II, citizenship meant
everything to me: freedom, safety and the ability to make free choices in my and
my children's lives."

Stallman's donation will help establish a fund in partnership with Sacred Heart
Community Services in San Jose to pay citizenship fees for qualifying
applicants.

According to data from the U.S. Census Bureau, there were more than 150,000
immigrants in Santa Clara County in 2008 who are likely to be eligible for
citizenship because they have been living in the U.S. legally for at least five
years, but who haven't become citizens yet.

The government greatly increased the naturalization fees two years ago, to a
total of $675 for a naturalization application and to take and record
applicants' fingerprints. Couple that with the recession's impact on paychecks,
and many people   such as In, profiled in the Wish Book  - have been forced to
forgo the citizenship dream as a result.

For 27 years, thousands of Mercury News readers have helped make dreams come
true for their neighbors through donations to the Wish Book. Since its
inception, more than $6 million has been distributed to provide warm jackets,
shiny new bikes, nutritious meals   and a leg up for people who most need it.

This year's series of stories appeared in the newspaper from Nov. 26 through
Dec. 24. To read the Wish Book stories and make a secure online donation, visit
www. mercurynews.info/wishbook . Gifts also may be made by mail using the coupon
that accompanies this story.

Wish Book readers may earmark their gifts to particular stories or causes, or
make general contributions. Tax deductible donations of any size continue to be
welcome.

Following is a partial list of donors; look for more names each weekend.

John and Sandra Alburger; Clarice Anderson, in honor of Mr. and Mrs. D.A. Cross;
Mike and Lorraine Antonucci; Charlotte Baker, in honor of Fred and Margaret
Baker; Madeline Blackwood, in honor of Bob Hirata; Harry and Brenda Blohm;
Beverly Borgman; Lucille Bragga, in honor of Johnny Windsor; Scott Broberg, in
honor of Sandy Broberg; Brown, Gillespie Knox and West, in honor of Maude
Wright;

Carol Cameron; Catherine Cameron, in honor of Peg Cameron; Shirley Canatsy, in
honor of Brian Canatsy; Mona Carey, in honor of Edna Floyd; Shirley H. Chapman,
in honor of Farrie Herring; Gloria and Ken Cheng; Jennifer Chew; Denise McCalla
Creary, in honor of Celia Levien; Virginia Dahl, in honor of John and Alison
Mackey; Janet Diehl; Roger E. Doss, in honor of Tomoe Ishikawa Doss; Craig J.
Dutra, in honor of Betty Dutra and Frank Dutra;

The Eberly family; Margie Edwards, in honor of Tom and Margi Connelly, Tom and
Betty Seeforth and Max and Carolyn Lettween; Anna Enfantino; the Faria family;
Robin J. Fenstermaker; Joseph Fernandez; Peggy Frederick; Ruth Geredes; Donald
Gordon, in honor of Debbie Gordon; Elaine and Stan Gould; Leslie Griffith;
Deborah Haas and Helena Castro; Michelle Hale; Irene K. Hansen; The William and
Flora Hewlett Foundation;

Nita Kadwell; Jennie Klenow, in honor of Dion Mathewson; Martha Kokes, in honor
of Patricia Kokes; Joseph Kokes, in honor of Tricia Kokes; Sandra M. Kupper, in
honor of Sofia, Holland, Bryce, Caden and Chloe Kupper; Sandra M. Kupper, in
honor of Alyssa and Madison Berry; Joan L. Kurtz; Sally Lopez; Gertrude
MacFarlane; John J. MacRostle; Joyce Martinez, in honor of Lena McQuithy; Jim
Matthews; Beverly McClellan; Larry and Micki Mistretta; Earl Montgomery; Marti
Mordecai; L. Namekata; Mike and Marti Nice; Patricia A. Nipper; Robert Oda;
Viola M. Owen, in memory of Bill Geoffrey;

Jack and Jan Paravagna; Kathleen Pearson-Nestle; Stephen and Martha Porter;
Julia and Genelle Pugliese; Joe and Linda Rafferty, in honor of Fumiko Takemoto;
Richard Regan; Steve and Dolores Ridgely; Tom and Amy Rizzi; Bernadine Ryals;
Cynthia and David Saracco, in memory of Frank P. Maro Sr.; Bonnie Schmidt, in
honor of Joe Schmidt; Cynthia Scott, in honor of Elma Wessels; Sue Shaw; Michael
and Mimi Shea, in honor of Trevor, Ryan, Mitch, George and Martin; Guy and Mimi
Shellman; Sarah Simpson; Charleyne, Marty and Myles Sorensen; Lisa and Greg
Stein; Gail Sullivan; SVYMCA Aqua Aerobics Group;

Roy and Fay Tengelsen, in memory of David and Kevin Tengelsen; Susan Tillim, in
honor of Augusta Schaadt; Rosemarie Trillo-Pia, in memory of Larry Trillo;
Richard and Nancy Walter; Fern Walters, in honor of Morton Litwack; Harriet
Weiss; Jack and Pearl Wiedlin, in honor of Arlene Utterback; Daniel Williams, in
honor of Lillie Williams.

Send questions or comments about Wish Book stories to wishbook@mercurynews.com
or call coordinator Holly Hayes at 408-920-5374.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday

With reflection and tears, Angel Island turns 100

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez jrodriguez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; State; Local

LENGTH: 1241 words


Malin Tom is an "emotional man," which explains why he kept his journey through
Angel Island mostly to himself for 60 years.

"I did not want to cry in front of people," says Tom, now 81 and living in Santa
Clara. "It is a sad story. I was so scared and poor. I was ashamed, and Chinese
don't talk about their shame."

But he could not resist a granddaughter's plea a few years ago. Would he talk to
her classmates about passing through the "Ellis Island of the West"?

"My granddaughter gave me courage."

And when Tom finally spoke it was as if a dam holding back immigrant tears had
cracked, replenishing the soil of American history with bittersweet truth.

On Thursday, a ceremony in San Francisco will commemorate   100 years to the
date   the opening of Angel Island's immigration station. The government will
swear in 100 new American citizens. Some of the nation's top immigration
officials will speak, as well as people who actually went through the island in
San Francisco Bay, including poet Nellie Wong and her sister from Sunnyvale, Lai
Webster.

The speakers won't sugarcoat the island's checkered past. Angel Island was
different from its welcoming counterpart in New York Harbor.

About 500,000 immigrants passed through the island from 1910 to 1940. Of these,
300,000 were detained, a third of them Chinese. While most were ultimately
allowed in, many, like Tom, waited months in a torturous limbo while their
backgrounds were investigated.

"Angel Island was really there to keep people out, not to welcome them," says
Judy Yung, a University of California-Santa Cruz professor emeritus of American
studies and author of two books on the subject. "We need to remember that. How
can we use the lesson of Angel Island to live up to our ideal as a nation of
immigrants?"

By the late 19th century, the easy gold in California was gone, an economic
recession had settled in across the country and a new wave of immigrants from
Asia and southern Europe stirred up a nativist backlash. Congress looked for
scapegoats.

Even today Tom asks, "Why did they home in on the Chinese?"

He was 12 years old in 1939 and living with his mother in a poor village in
Canton province. His father, Yip Way Tom, had sneaked through Angel Island in
1916 as "Jack Chew," the supposed son of a Chinese-American family. Under the
Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, laborers could only immigrate if they were the
children or grandchildren of U.S.-born, Chinese-Americans.

"The Chinese figured out a intricate system right away," Yung says.

American-born Chinese who could sponsor relatives often sold their immigration
slots to underground brokers, who sold them in Hong Kong to desperate immigrants
like the Toms. Sometimes, undocumented Chinese here created entirely new
identities on paper, especially after thousands of birth records were destroyed
by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire.

The Chinese men who came to Angel Island with these false identities were known
as "paper sons."

At 4 feet, 8 1/2 inches tall, young Tom boarded a ship in Hong Kong with a new
identity, May Kwong Chew, son of Jack Chew, and "coaching" notes about the Chew
family. He had to study notes between bouts with seasickness because he would be
grilled by interrogators on Angel Island bent on ferreting out paper sons and
daughters.

"After three weeks on a ship," Tom says, "the next three months were even
worse."

Tom remembers going through three or four interrogations: Where was the water
well in your village? How many steps did your front porch have? When did your
uncle in America die? What company did he work for? Did he have birthmarks, and
where?

Then he, like the other detainees, waited as immigration agents checked out his
answers. Tom waited three months, about average, but some detainees were forced
to remain on the island up to two years.

Nothing frightened him more than the whispers of suicides. Yung says some
immigrants who flunked the questioning probably killed themselves on the island,
but there is no official proof.

"They would have been too ashamed to go home and face their families and
villages," said Yung, whose own father was a paper son and adopted the surname
"Yung."

She estimates that 4 percent of Chinese were deported from the island.

Immigrants channeled their hopes and desolation into poetry, which they etched
on the walls of their prison barracks. Tom read some of these, but "they made me
feel even more sad."

To help pass the time, he played games with other Chinese boys in the recreation
yard and picked up a few words of playground English. Because of the strict
segregation, he never met boys from other nations, though he could see them
during their allotted time in the yard.

Mostly though, he mulled over the interrogation questions during the day,
complained about "terrible mush" and other western food, and cried silently
under his blanket at night.

"I didn't want to make noise for the others," he says.

After three months, he was released and traveled to San Diego, where his father
delivered produce to restaurants. On a much better diet, Tom sprouted to nearly
6 foot tall and played basketball in high school. He mastered English and kept
his Chinese.

When he and his father returned to China in 1947, they learned Tom's brother and
sister had died during World War II, probably from disease. Tom married, but
with the communists taking over, he and his new bride moved to the United States
in 1949 and sailed through immigration as Mr. and Mrs. Chew.

He might have remained a Chew were it not for the "Chinese Confession Program,"
a sort of amnesty for undocumented immigrants in the early 1960s, so long as
they weren't communists or criminals. After three decades in the shadows, he
became Malin Tom again, and a U.S. citizen. More than 18,000 Chinese paper sons
and paper daughters also confessed and were allowed to stay.

He raised a family, and owned a nursery in Silicon Valley. And he never talked
to anyone in detail about Angel Island.

"Not even to me," says his wife, Jean.

Too much shame.

In 2001, Tom returned to the island after 61 years with his adult children and
grandchildren, who had begged him to go. He says the hardest part was visiting a
restored dormitory, where he spent so many tearful nights, remembering the sound
of doors being locked behind him.

"I cried again," Tom says. "I'm still an emotional guy."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767.

An immigration station opens on Angel Island in San Francisco Bay on Jan. 21,
1910 to enforce the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.
As immigrants from Asia, Russia and Mexico arrive, the station is dubbed the
Ellis Island of the West, but its detainees are segregated by race, ethnicity
and gender.
About 500,000 immigrants pass through over the next 30 years, the majority of
them Asians.
While Europeans arriving at Ellis Island passed through in two to three hours,
Chinese immigrants at Angel Island endure interrogations that often lasted two
weeks to six months, with a few forced to stay up to two years.
On Nov. 5, 1940 the last group of 200 immigrants on the island " 150 of them
Chinese " are transferred to San Francisco. Congress repeals the exclusion act
in 1943.
Today, visitors to Angel Island can visit a museum, restored dormitory and read
the poems carved into the immigration station"s walls. Guided tours are $4 for
adults and $3 for children. For schedules and directions, go www.aiisf.org or
call 415-435-3392.

Source: Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: January 15, 2010. Portrait of 79-year-old Lai Webster of Sunnyvale, who
made it through Angel Island as a child, at her home in Sunnyvale. This is the
100th anniversary year of Angel Island, the "Ellis Island of the West." Angel
Island in SF Bay was where US immigration officials mostly tried to disqualify
Chinese immigrants from entering the county. (LiPo Ching/Mercury News)
January 15, 2010. Portrait of 79-year-old Lai Webster of Sunnyvale, who made it
through Angel Island as a child, at her home in Sunnyvale. This is the 100th
anniversary year of Angel Island, the "Ellis Island of the West." Angel Island
in SF Bay was where US immigration officials mostly tried to disqualify Chinese
immigrants from entering the county. (LiPo Ching/Mercury News)
Malin Tom, 81, reflects on his experiences living on Angel Island at his home in
Santa Clara on Jan. 14, 2010. Tom immigrated from China when he was
twelve-years-old. Angel Island was his point of entry. It was not a friendly
place. Sentiments against Chinese was still strong during the 1940's with laws
like the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 still looming. Angel Island celebrates
it's 100th anniversary. (Gary Reyes/Mercury News)
Malin Tom, 81, holds the tattered cover of the original immigration documents
that were issued to him upon his arrival to Angel Island in 1940 when he was
twelve-years-old. This photo was taken on Jan. 14, 2010 at his Santa Clara home.
Tom immigrated from China when he was twelve-years-old. Angel Island was his
point of entry. It was not a friendly place. Sentiments against Chinese was
still strong during the 1940's with laws like the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882
still looming. Angel Island celebrates it's 100th anniversary. (Gary
Reyes/Mercury News)
Malin Tom, 81, reflects on his experiences living on Angel Island at his home in
Santa Clara on Jan. 14, 2010. Tom immigrated from China when he was
twelve-years-old. Angel Island was his point of entry. It was not a friendly
place. Sentiments against Chinese was still strong during the 1940's with laws
like the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 still looming. Angel Island celebrates
it's 100th anniversary. (Gary Reyes/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Senators call for scrapping 'virtual fence'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 284 words


WASHINGTON (AP)   Two senators said Tuesday that it's time to consider ending a
contract for a "virtual fence" along the U.S.-Mexico border, contending it
doesn't stop illegal immigration.

Sen. Joe Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut, even suggested an
old-fashioned, real fence may work better than the electronic one designed by
Boeing.

"We're counting on you to give us a direct assessment and take action to either
terminate the contract or take from it what may work," Lieberman told U.S.
Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Alan Bersin.

Lieberman, chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
said at a hearing on border security: "The best answer to this continuing crisis
and continued flow of illegal immigrants into the U.S. is to go back to the
old-style fences, double- and triple-tiered, and layered."

Sen. Roland Burris, D-Ill., asked Bersin whether the contract could be canceled.
Bersin said he was not able to render a judgment on a legal issue.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said in March that she was halting
funding to expand the virtual fence that originally was supposed to monitor most
of the 2,000-mile southern U.S. border by 2011. It now covers only a portion of
Arizona's boundary with Mexico.

The virtual fence is a network of cameras, ground sensors and radars designed to
let a small number of dispatchers watch the border on a computer monitor, zoom
in with cameras to see people crossing, and decide whether to send Border Patrol
agents to the scene.

The fence was part of President George W. Bush's security plan.

Bersin said that the contractor has been unable to integrate the system to allow
central monitoring of the border.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Poizner, Whitman may regret their stance on
immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr. San Diego Union-Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 727 words


SAN DIEGO   When the talk turns to immigration, Eric Hogue is an anomaly   a
conservative radio host who won't feed his audience red meat. Instead, he has
put his listeners on a strict diet of honesty, compassion and common sense.

The Sacramento-based talker is no squishy moderate. You'll find him at tea party
rallies, and he uses the S-word (socialism) to describe President Barack Obama's
agenda. Yet, on immigration, Hogue battles listeners because he doesn't dabble
in simple solutions, name-calling or nativism.

There's already enough of that kind of static on the airwaves. Many talk radio
conservatives scapegoat immigrants to boost ratings. Hogue understands why.

"It's easier," he told me. "It produces good entertaining radio. It's kind of an
'us versus them' "... it's lazy talk radio."

Hogue understands that he might be putting his broadcasting career at risk by
not jumping on the bandwagon. But as a Republican, he's wondering why more of
his right-leaning brethren aren't seeing things the way he does.

"My neck's out because I won't run away from this issue," he said. "I see
(illegal immigrants) as human beings, and I respect the fact that they want
liberty. So as a Republican, I look at the Democratic Party that plays them like
pawns on a chessboard for collectivism. And I see them as individuals who are
conservative to the core, and they want to be treated as individuals   and we're
the only party that can offer that to them. But we shoot ourselves in the foot
trying to get there."

Hogue thinks immigration reform is an opportunity   for the country and the GOP.

"America is a special place because we celebrate liberty and the individual," he
said. "What the Republican Party should be doing is focusing on that and not our
differences."

Hogue calls immigration a "wedge issue that becomes candy for the conservative
core." As if to prove his point, at the moment, the two leading Republican
gubernatorial candidates in California are like kids in a candy store.

With a mix of dishonesty and political posturing, they've constructed a GOP
primary race that looks as though it should be broadcast on the Cartoon Network.

You know those election matchups where voters have a clear choice between
opposing philosophies? Well, this isn't that kind of race.

Former eBay CEO Meg Whitman and state Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner are
both wealthy Silicon Valley entrepreneurs who burst onto the political scene as
moderates because, until recently, that's what California Republicans looked
like   at least those who were electable statewide.

Both previously expressed support for comprehensive immigration reform that
includes a path to earned legal status for illegal immigrants. Poizner did this
indirectly by praising President George W. Bush's approach to immigration
reform. And what was that approach? See above. Whitman did it more directly
when, as an adviser to Sen. John McCain   who co-sponsored a comprehensive
immigration reform plan in 2005   she said in a television interview that
illegal immigrants should be able to earn the right to stay in the United
States.

Now Poizner and Whitman are firing off radio and TV ads that accuse one another
of supporting "amnesty." So we have two Republicans accusing each other of
siding with a former Republican president and a Republican senator in support of
an immigration approach that both candidates agree with. Even by California
standards, it's beyond bizarre.

Poizner, who trails Whitman by more than 30 points, was the first to reach for
the immigration issue as a life preserver. But it could become an anvil.

"In a Republican primary," Hogue said, "(the immigration issue) gets you votes.
"... It helps you win a primary. The problem is, it helps you lose the general."

Exactly. Whichever Republican emerges victorious will, in November, go before an
electorate that is 20 percent Latino and try to explain   with the aid of
cultural gimmicks like mariachi bands or chips and salsa   that they didn't
really mean all the nasty things they said just a few months earlier. There's
not enough salsa in the world to help Latinos to swallow that line.

Eric Hogue gets that, and he's trying to warn other California Republicans that
they're on a suicide mission. If they care about their survival, they had better
listen.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Santa Cruz police to partner with immigration officials to fight gang violence

BYLINE: By Jennifer Squires @santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 904 words


SANTA CRUZ - Besieged by unsolved gang violence, Santa Cruz police turned to
federal immigration agents for help this week.

Beginning Tuesday, a team of Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents are
working with the Police Department to investigate gang crime in the city, Santa
Cruz Police Chief Howard Skerry announced Wednesday.

"We've reached a point where I, as chief, will call in every available
resource," Skerry said. "The whole focus of this is to find out who committed
these crimes and bring them to justice." Carl Reimer, 19, died April 17 after
being shot three times by suspected gang members in a Westside park area. No
arrests have been made.

There also are outstanding suspects in three other gang-related homicides in the
city dating back to October.

"I'm looking to solve crime, so they're coming in and they're going to help me,"
Skerry said.

The effort is part of Operation Community Shield, an ongoing ICE effort to
partner with local police agencies to address gang issues.

"We really combine our resources and authorities and our expertise and what that
does is it's very effective in disrupting and dismantling these gang
organizations, these criminal organizations," said assistant special agent
in-charge Joseph Vincent, who heads the ICE unit in San Jose that is teaming
with Santa Cruz police.

On the Central Coast, the ICE National Gang Unit has worked with police in
Morgan Hill, Gilroy and Salinas in the past year, as well as the Monterey County
Sheriff's Department. The National Gang Unit identifies violent street gangs and
monitors their membership, associates and criminal activities. The unit also
traces and seizes cash, weapons and other assets to disrupt, deter and dismantle
international gang operations, according to ICE.

The new initiative in Santa Cruz will target gang members, then use a variety of
investigation and prosecution options available at both the state and federal
level. That may include deporting people who are in the U.S. illegally, but
immigration enforcement is not the primary focus of the partnership, Vincent
said.

Santa Cruz city leaders said Wednesday they were pleased the Police Department
is getting outside help in dealing with gang violence, but expressed
reservations about the perception of ICE agents working in the city.

"We need to do everything we can to stop the gang violence while at the same
time maintaining the community's trust and open communication with our police
department and law enforcement agencies so part of a solution has to be - must
be - that there be information and education to the public," Councilman Tony
Madrigal said, adding people need to be told immigration authorities are coming
to Santa Cruz for a specific purpose. "Any cooperation that happens cannot and
should not whittle down the trust and the open communication that has taken so
long to establish and build and grow."

Santa Cruz is a "sanctuary city," a label the City Council adopted in 1982 after
Immigration and Naturalization Services authorities, the precursor to ICE,
conducted raids in the Beach Flats neighborhood and pulled kids out of class at
Bay View Elementary School, according to Mayor Mike Rotkin.

At the time, becoming a sanctuary city was as much an effort to protect
residents as it was to assist police officers, who worried that actions by
federal agents eroded the community's trust in other law enforcement, including
local police, Rotkin said.

The mayor was supportive of the new police-ICE partnership.

"I don't think the plan is for ICE to come in here and do sweeps," he said.

ICE agents will bring a variety of enforcement opportunities, including
immigration, customs, financial investigations and racketeering cases, according
to ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice. They will target both foreign nationals and
U.S. citizens.

"We're in it to try to assist our local partners with protecting their
community," Vincent said. "Specifically, we're going to assist them with some
homicide investigations."

Skerry declined to say Wednesday if detectives had developed any leads in the
investigation into Reimer's killing, including if they had determined which gang
was responsible or identified any suspects.

"We're still working on leads we have," Skerry said. "They're long, complex
investigations." Detectives continue to search for suspects in three other
gang-related slayings in the past seven months.

Although a judge signed an arrest warrant for the second suspect in a
gang-related double murder in a Canfield Street apartment in January, that man
remains at large. One suspected gang member has been arrested and charged in
connection with the shooting deaths of Alejandro Nava-Gonzalez, 21, and Oscar
Ventura, 18.

Police are still looking for at least one man wanted in connection with the Oct.
16 fatal stabbing of Tyler Tenorio, 16, near Chestnut and Laurel streets.
Tenorio and friends got into an argument with two gang members, but tried to
flee when the fight turned physical and more suspected gangsters showed up.
Tenorio was stabbed 16 times and died on the street.

One teen, allegedly a gang member, was arrested but a second suspect is believed
to have fled to Mexico and others involved with the fatal fight have not been
identified by police.

"We are tired of what's going on here in Santa Cruz," Skerry said. "The
community's tired. Everyone's ready to step forward and take these people head
on and hopefully send them to jail."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

Interracial marriage still rising, but not as fast

BYLINE: By Hope Yen Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State

LENGTH: 239 words


WASHINGTON   Melting pot or racial divide? The growth of interracial marriage is
slowing among U.S.-born Hispanics and Asians. Still, blacks are substantially
more likely than before to marry whites.

The number of interracial marriages in the United States has risen 20 percent
since 2000 to about 4.5 million, according to the latest census figures. While
still growing, that number is a marked drop-off from the 65 percent increase
from 1990 to 2000.

About 8 percent of U.S. marriages are mixed-race, up from 7 percent in 2000.

The latest trend belies notions of the United States as a post-racial,
assimilated society. Demographers cite a steady flow of recent immigration that
has given Hispanics and Asians more ethnically similar partners to choose from
while creating some social distance from whites due to cultural and language
differences.

White wariness toward a rapidly growing U.S. minority population also may be
contributing to racial divisions, experts said.

"Racial boundaries are not going to disappear anytime soon," said Daniel
Lichter, a professor of sociology and public policy at Cornell University. He
noted the increase in anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks as well as current tensions in Arizona over its
new immigration law.

"With a white backlash toward immigrant groups, some immigrants are more likely
to turn inward to each other for support," Lichter said.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

Feds proposing new round of immigration fee hikes

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State; World

LENGTH: 212 words


WASHINGTON (AP)   The cost of the first step toward becoming a U.S. citizen
getting a green card   may be going up, but the price to apply for full-fledged
citizenship is likely to remain the same.

The Obama administration has proposed increasing the application fee for a green
card   given to foreigners with permission to live and work in the United States
permanently   from $930 to $985. The fee for required fingerprinting also would
go up $5 to $85, for a total of $1,070.

Foreigners wanting to become a U.S. citizen must have held a green card for five
years before they are eligible to apply for citizenship, which costs $595 plus
the fingerprinting fee. In other cases, such as when a foreigner plans to marry
a U.S. citizen, the wait time is not as long. The administration is not
proposing an increase in the citizenship application fee even though a
government study found that the fee should be increased as much as $60 an
application to cover the full cost of processing those applications.

Ali Mayorkas, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the
increases are needed because of the $2.3 billion in estimated costs to process
immigration-related applications. The agency expects $2.1 billion in revenue
this fiscal year to cover those costs.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday

U.S., Cuba to hold migration talks next week

BYLINE: By Paul Haven, Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; World

LENGTH: 249 words


HAVANA (AP)   The United States and Cuba have agreed to hold immigration talks
in Washington within days, a U.S. official said Saturday, the first since a
similar meeting in Havana in February.

The talks scheduled for Friday are intended to monitor adherence to a
16-year-old agreement under which the United States issues 20,000 visas to
Cubans a year, though in the past the sides have used the meeting to delve into
more contentious issues.

In the last round of talks, U.S. diplomats pressed Cuba to release Alan Gross, a
jailed American contractor that Cuba has accused of spying. Gross has been
jailed for more than six months without charge.

The American delegation also met with dissidents in Havana, raising the ire of
Cuban officials.

The latest round of talks will take place at an as-yet undetermined location in
Washington, Gloria Berbena, a spokeswoman for the U.S Interests Section in
Havana, told The Associated Press. The U.S. maintains the Interests Section
instead of an embassy.

After a brief period of hope that U.S. President Barack Obama would usher in a
new era of rapprochement with America's longtime Caribbean foe, relations
between the United States and Cuba have been on a downward trajectory for some
months.

Fidel Castro, once a grudging admirer of the president, has been harshly
critical lately of everything from Obama's work at global climate change talks,
to America's backing of Israel, to the use of American soldiers as part of
relief efforts in quake-ravaged Haiti.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday

Man who kept body on ice in Southern California is deported

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News

LENGTH: 112 words


NEWPORT BEACH   Federal officials have deported a New Zealand drug dealer who
kept his dead girlfriend's body on dry ice in a swanky Newport Beach hotel.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement says Stephen David Royds was deported on
June 25.

The 49-year-old Royds was paroled in May after serving about 1½ years of a
four-year prison sentence on felony drug charges.

He was arrested in 2008 for allegedly selling cocaine and pleaded guilty to drug
charges. Investigators who searched his room at the Fairmont Hotel found the
body of 33-year-old Monique Trepp in a plastic box filled with dry ice.
Acquaintances said she had died of an accidental drug overdose nearly a year
earlier.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday

Culture Shlock: Immigrants and crime: A bad wrap?

BYLINE: By Malcolm Fleschner Daily News Columnist

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 835 words


AS ANYONE knows who watches the news, lives in a border state or has joined my
"Send Celine Dion Back to Canada" campaign, immigration is one of the biggest
hot-button issues in the country right now.

High-profile commentators like Lou Dobbs have led this particular charge,
pointing the finger of blame at illegal immigrants for a host of problems,
including overtaxing our health-care system, undermining the English language
and regularly forgetting to water the hydrangea bushes beside the pool house.

Of course, the anti-immigration sentiment is not directed at all foreign
countries. Most of the heat is directed at Mexican immigrants, which is why so
few anti-immigration protesters call for an end to, say, Swahili classes in our
schools, or demand that Swedish immigrants at IKEA stop stealing jobs from
American designers of affordable, modular furniture.

Lately, immigration opponents like Arizona governor Jan Brewer have claimed that
most illegal Mexican border crossers are smuggling drugs into the country and
are responsible for a resulting rise in violent crime. Not only are these claims
intentionally provocative and difficult to substantiate, but they also draw
attention away from the real menace that's come to this country from Mexico, a
threat that has already contributed to a tremendous increase in violence.

Of course, I'm talking about burritos.

Don't believe me? Then you must have missed the recent story of 24-year-old
Destiny McMullen, who was reportedly harassing fellow Wal-Mart customers in
Sonora, Calif., at the in-store Taco Bell. According to reports, when a police
officer approached McMullen, she became upset, threw a burrito at his chest and
spit at him. Ms. McMullen was eventually arrested on misdemeanor assault
charges.

I know what you're thinking -- "Malcolm, one person throwing a burrito at a cop
at Wal-Mart doesn't prove anything. Get a few beers in me and that sounds like a
typical Friday night. You probably can't come up with one other instance of
burrito-related violence anywhere else in the country."

If only that were true. Sadly, I'm forced to refer you to a story from last
October out of Hernando County, Florida featuring the following provocative
headline:

"Police: Teen Used Burrito As Deadly Weapon"

According to news reports, the 15-year-old in question hurled a burrito at a
passing car, where it "exploded" all over the windshield. Thankfully, no
injuries resulted, but authorities took the incident very seriously and said
they planned to charge the teen with a felony for, and I quote, "throwing a
deadly missile."

Want more? How about the story -- I swear this is true -- of a Florida man who
attended a costume party dressed as Captain America, and allegedly stuffed a
burrito into the front of his pants and repeatedly asked women if they wanted to
touch it. Authorities arrested the overly amorous crimefighter after he
allegedly removed the burrito from his pants and began using it to grope another
partygoer.

Or the equally terrifying fact that three times in the past five years -- once
each at a New Mexico high school, a South Carolina bank and on the San Francisco
muni -- police have been called in to defuse a bomb that upon closer inspection
turned out to be -- you guessed it -- Lou Dobbs. No, just kidding. They were all
burritos.

So we're clearly dealing with an epidemic, a rice-and-refried bean-fueled crime
wave that shows no sign of stopping. And a scared citizenry might reasonably
wonder, "What is the government doing?" The authorities can't be unaware of the
problem. You don't call in the bomb squad, use words like "exploded" or label a
burrito a "deadly missile" unless you recognize the threat to public safety.
Especially when even a hero like Captain America falls victim to the lure of
burrito-based wrongdoing.

And yet there has been no outcry, no massive public education campaign, no
demand that taco stands nationwide conduct computerized background checks before
every burrito sale. Why? It's simple -- because Taco Bell, Chipotle, Baja Fresh
and other members of the "Big Burrito" lobby have stifled any efforts at
regulation. Or maybe it's just a coincidence that in recent years we've seen a
proliferation of bumper stickers bearing slogans like, "Burritos don't kill
people, people kill people" and "You can take my burrito from my cold, dead,
greasy hands," not to mention all those "activists" who've shown up at town
hall-style meetings recently brandishing burritos in a threatening manner.

Some will say that the idea of burritos as a public menace is preposterous and
will point out that the burritos we eat are more American than Mexican, and, in
fact, most Mexicans don't even eat burritos. To which I say, why should facts
stop me from using overblown rhetoric and throwing around wild, baseless
accusations? This is the immigration debate we're talking about, after all.

Want more of Malcolm Fleschner's signature wit, but at the same time, less? Then
follow him on Twitter at twitter.com/cultureshlock .

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday

Obama signs $600 million border security bill into law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 134 words


WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama has signed into law a $600 million border
security that will put more agents and equipment along the Mexican border.

Obama signed the bill in the Oval Office today alongside Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano. The measure will fund the hiring of 1,000 new Border
Patrol agents to be deployed at critical areas along the border, as well as more
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. It also provides for new
communications equipment and greater use of unmanned surveillance drones.

Some Republicans, including Arizona Sen. John McCain, say that while the
legislation is a start, it falls short by not dramatically increasing the number
of customs inspectors along the border and not funding a program that charges
illegal immigrants with a low-level crime.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


south carolina

Senate candidate indicted on porn charges

Longshot Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Alvin Greene was indicted Friday on
two charges, including a felony charge of showing pornography to a teenage
student in a South Carolina college computer lab.

Greene surprised the party establishment with his primary victory in June.

Authorities said he approached a student in a University of South Carolina
computer lab, showed her obscene photos online, then talked about going to her
dorm room.

washington

Obama signs $600 million border bil

President Barack Obama on Friday signed a bill directing $600 million more to
securing the U.S.-Mexico border, a modest election-year victory that underscores
his failure so far to deliver an overhaul of immigration law.

The new law will pay for the hiring of 1,000 more Border Patrol agents to be
deployed at critical areas, as well as more Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents. It provides for new communications equipment and greater use of unmanned
surveillance drones. The Justice Department gets more money to help catch drug
dealers and human traffickers.

In other news


     ·    President Barack Obama on Friday forcefully endorsed allowing a mosque
          near ground zero, saying the country's founding principles demanded no
          less.


"As a citizen, and as president, I believe that Muslims have the same right to
practice their religion as everyone else in this country," Obama said, weighing
in for the first time on a controversy that has riven New York City and the
nation. Obama made the comments at an annual dinner in the White House State
Dining Room celebrating the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.

From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Don't let politics derail sensible immigration
proposal

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 679 words


SAN DIEGO -- Most parents will do anything for their children. And when mom and
dad are in the United States illegally, this includes volunteering to spend the
rest of your lives in the shadows if it means your kid can step into the light.

On a recent trip to Phoenix, I sat down for dinner with a pair of illegal
immigrants -- a married couple who overstayed their visas about 15 years ago and
have been trying, with the help of an attorney, to get right with the law ever
since. They're not the only ones who lack legal status; they have a child, born
in Mexico, who is now a teenager with an uncertain future. Mom and dad agree
that they'd be willing to forgo their chance at legal status if, at least,
something could be done for their child.

That something is the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, or
DREAM, sponsored by Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., and Richard Lugar, R-Ind. The
bill is aimed at young people in the country illegally, offering them
"conditional permanent residency" if they came before they were 16 and if they
attend college or serve in the military. Once they graduate or complete their
enlistment, they would get permanent legal residency with a chance to apply for
U.S. citizenship. Anyone who didn't enroll in college or join the military would
be subject to deportation.

As far as my dinner companions are concerned, the legislation is a gift from
above.

"We'd be willing to wait 100 years for the chance to stay here legally," the
father said, "if our child could have that opportunity right now through the
DREAM Act."

This bill is a fantastic idea. It identifies young people who want to make a
contribution and separates them from those who don't. And it allows the United
States to keep precisely the kind of individuals that other countries would love
to have. The legislation represents good policy and good sense. So, naturally,
it's having trouble making it through Congress.

Immigration-reform liberals are split. In one camp are those who think Congress
should pass the DREAM Act to solve a small part of the immigration problem. In
the other are those who want to stay focused on the larger and more elusive
cause of comprehensive immigration reform.

Part of it has to do with the numbers. It is estimated that the DREAM Act could
affect as many as 700,000 people; those who are pushing for comprehensive
immigration reform have their eye on changing the status of more than 10
million.

Some say it's time to settle for the DREAM Act as a "down payment" on
immigration reform.

Adding to all this, there's also drama on Capitol Hill. Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid is in a tough battle for re-election. Should he lose, it would set
off a gladiator match to succeed him between the second-ranking Democrat
(Durbin, who is sponsoring the DREAM Act) and the third-ranking Democrat (Sen.
Charles Schumer of New York, who is supposedly going to propose -- one of these
days -- a comprehensive bill).

The Hill newspaper reported a few months ago that Durbin is "soft-pedaling" the
DREAM Act so as not to undercut Schumer's reform effort. He's doing this even
though his supporters think it's every senator for himself now and that No. 2
shouldn't be doing anything to help No. 3 -- especially since, many immigration
advocates acknowledge, it's Durbin's bill that stands the better chance of
passing.

Political junkies love this stuff, but most people couldn't care less about the
politics holding back the DREAM Act.

They include those parents in Phoenix who just want a safe haven for their child
and thought they had seen the last of this kind of political dysfunction when
they left Mexico.

They also include the several hundred undocumented high school and college
students who recently marched on Washington -- in caps and gowns -- to rally
support for the bill. Some of them occupied senators' offices and got arrested,
risking deportation. By their actions, these students showed more courage and
character in confronting this issue than our lawmakers have shown in ducking it.


RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Immigrants face obstacles when they are victims of crime

BYLINE: By Sean Maher and Sam Sutton Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1690 words


OAKLAND -- Some immigrants wrestling with the city's serious crime problem face
a question foreign to many residents born and raised here: Am I in greater
danger from criminals, or from what could happen if I talk to the police?

Police have several times this year reported that crime is down in Oakland. But
those statistics are based on crime that either police discover on their own or
is reported by victims and concerned residents. When immigrants become the
victims of crime, however, fears that they will be mistrusted, ignored, or
worse, deported by the police, prompt many to secretly accept their abuse.

In Chinatown, for example, activists trying to rally their neighborhoods against
crime estimate that only 10 to 20 percent of crime in the area gets reported to
police.

Even as promising solutions are developing, these communities have been both
terrorized and galvanized by high-profile crimes against immigrants, such as the
deadly beating of a 59-year-old Chinese man in downtown and the shootings of ice
cream truck and taco truck vendors in the Fruitvale district.

These horrific crimes have spurred immigrant-rich neighborhoods to question how
they can best protect themselves, whether they are being targeted and how their
reluctant relationships with police may need to change.

"They're worried about being deported," police Capt. Paul Figueroa said. "I tell
them at every (neighborhood) meeting that I'm not bound to do that."

However, under Alameda County's Secure Communities program launched in April,
jailed detainees' fingerprints are sent to the federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency no matter what they're arrested for, and noncitizen
immigrants with criminal records can later be deported.

An ill-timed deportation under the program can send waves through a community
whose trust is difficult for police to obtain, said Susan Bowyer of Immigrant
Survivors Legal Aid.

"Frankly, I think that they need to do more outreach; that they don't report
victims and witnesses (to ICE), but they have so much on their plate," Bowyer
said.

Karina Najera, who works with at-risk youths through the Spanish Speaking
Citizens' Foundation, is also concerned.

"They tell us they're not going to call ICE," Najera said. "In reality, when
people do get stopped, when they get sent to Santa Rita (Jail), they do call
ICE. They do get deported, even if they get stopped on an unpaid ticket."

Deportation is less of a fear among immigrants from Asia, as the culture of
their immigration operates differently, according to Sun-Kwong Sze, a community
group organizer for Councilmember Pat Kernighan (Grand Lake-Chinatown).

"Many of them immigrate for family reunions," Sze said. "Being undocumented is
less of a fear."

However, like many Latino immigrants, legal status may prevent Asian immigrants
from obtaining drivers licenses, bank accounts or credit cards, forcing them to
walk around carrying cash while shopping and doing business.

The combination is known to street criminals and makes immigrants vulnerable
targets for mugging. In the Latino community, Bowyer said she has heard
immigrants referred to as "ATMs" and muggings referred to as "amigo checks."

Language barrier

For many immigrants, the language barrier alone creates enough discouragement to
prevent them from calling police.

"It's the number one concern for Asian immigrants, that they will call the
police and no one will understand them," Sze said. "Even though when you call
911, they can have a language line to help you translate, sometimes it takes
time. When people don't understand how things work, they will become frustrated.
They might hang up."

City Councilmember Ignacio De La Fuente (Fruitvale) said city government has
failed to reach such frustrated communities.

"The number of bilingual officers is the root of the problem," he said. "There's
a very small percentage of officers who are bilingual."

Figueroa said that the Police Department recognizes the issue of language
barriers and has had success reaching out to churches such as St. Anthony's,
which offers services in Spanish, Vietnamese and English.

The language barrier also makes it difficult to educate immigrants on the proper
channels for coming forward.

"It has more to do with them not knowing their rights, not knowing the way the
system works," Najera said.

De La Fuente agreed. "You want these people involved, and there's no way to
participate and clean up a neighborhood without people knowing how to
participate and report crimes."

Culture clash

Language, however, is just one of numerous cultural comfort zones immigrants can
find themselves leaving behind, and the jarring experience of being transplanted
doesn't stop at the words people speak.

"I think definitely whatever experience (immigrants) bring from the countries
they're from ... if they bring these experiences to the United States, it takes
time for us to build a relationship," Figueroa said. "South American countries,
Mexico, the police are seen as corrupt."

The problem isn't unique to Mexico: Many Asian immigrants come from cultures
that also left them fearful of police, or misunderstanding of their role.

"For many people, especially non-English speakers, we found the culture may not
be trusting police from their background," Chan said. "The police are so
authoritative where they come from, they don't know it might be different here."

Building a relationship becomes increasingly difficult as more strain is placed
on Oakland's shrinking police force. Data released in June showed Oakland's
response time for top priority 911 calls is nearly three times as long as the
average of California's other nine largest police departments.

Oakland police already undergo cultural sensitivity training, Sze said. "But in
my own personal opinion, there should be more. That's what my personal
experience with police says, and that's what I hear from the community."

Beyond that, in Chinatown crime is sometimes perceived by its victims as an
experience to suffer through, either because its victim has earned his or her
misfortune or because of a superstition that it staves off even worse
experiences.

"If you get mugged and you lose 40 or 50 dollars, for many Chinese people they
think that's not so much money if they can avoid bigger trouble," said Ming Ho,
a volunteer who helps crime victims deal with police. "It's a superstition more
for older people, but it's very common in our culture."

Efforts to improve

In 2007, the federal government began issuing three-year visas, called U visas,
to immigrant victims of violent crimes who cooperate with police.

"The whole purpose of the U visa is to bring immigrants out of the shadow," said
Jessica Farb of the International Institute of the Bay Area, which aids
immigrants in attaining the visas. "It's a positive result that comes out of
something really, really terrible."

Many of Farb's clients are women who have been the victims of domestic abuse, as
well as others who have been victims of assaults and street robberies.

Local law enforcement agencies have been receptive to the program, Farb said, as
an approach to improving the relationship between law enforcement and immigrant
communities.

The institute has a six-month wait list of individuals looking to begin the
process of applying for the visa, and Bay Area residents have been awarded about
10 percent of the U visas granted annually, Farb said.

Attacks in Chinatown became notorious among neighbors, especially when seniors
became targeted about a year ago, according to Carl Chan, chairman of the Asian
Advisory Committee on Crime. The attacks prompted the launching of a
Neighborhood Crime Prevention Council, which holds monthly meetings in Cantonese
to address the complexities and trends of crime in local neighborhoods. The
meetings help work through the language and cultural barriers between residents
and police, Chan and other residents said.

"Many people are now realizing reporting crime is very important," Chan said.

In the wake of an April 16 fatal beating, Chan and the victim's widow called a
news conference and spread word to the community, expecting a rally of 100 or so
neighbors to come out and show their support -- but more than 500 arrived.

"People are beginning to realize it's not just about catching the guy," Chan
said. "When police know it's a high-crime area, they will step up the patrol.
People don't feel like they have a voice if they don't see the effects of
calling police right away, but they do have a voice. They have to be part of the
community."

To address the language barrier, volunteers from Chinatown's NCPC have been
offering to act as liaisons between victims of crime and the police. Among them
is Ming Ho.

Ho, 66, has lived in Oakland since arriving from Hong Kong when he was 23. He
said he's often shared his neighbors' frustration with police, calling them and
getting no response. He eventually learned his way around City Hall through the
Citizens' Academy, which was held in Cantonese, and has been helping his
neighbors ever since.

Further, a video camera program local merchants launched about a year ago in
cooperation with the Chinatown NCPC has been successful, Chan said.

"Most business owners install cameras to focus not only inside, but also outside
on the streets now," Chan said. "Many suspects have been caught and put in jail
because we put in cameras."

Despite the obstacles, the situation continues to improve, Chan, Sze and Ho all
said.

"We'll be OK as long as we're working together bridging the gap," Chan said,
"especially in times of tough economy."

Contact Sean Maher at smaher@bayareanewsgroup.com and Sam Sutton at
ssutton@bayareanewsgroup.com .

To contact the Neighborhood Crime Prevention Council in Chinatown or find out
where a meeting is held, call Sun-Kwong Sze at 510-238-7957. A full list of
NCPCs across Oakland is online at
http://measurey.org/index.php?page=neighborhood-watch .

To learn how to enroll in The Citizens' Academy offered by the city of Oakland,
call Silvia Sofia San Miguel at 510-238-6448 or e-mail her at
ssanmiguel@oaklandnet.com .

For information on applying for U visas, call 510-451-2846 or visit
www.iibayarea.org .

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday

Despite economy, Americans don't want farm work

BYLINE: By Garance Burke Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National; Business

LENGTH: 686 words


VISALIA -- It's a question rekindled by the recession: Are immigrants taking
jobs away from American citizens? In the heart of the nation's biggest farming
state, the answer is a resounding no.

Government data analyzed by The Associated Press show most Americans simply
don't apply to harvest fruits and vegetables. And the few Americans who do
usually don't stay in the fields.

"It's just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and
move here to do," said farmer Steve Fortin, who pays $10.25 an hour to foreign
workers to trim strawberry plants at his nursery near the Nevada border.

The AP analysis showed that, from January to June, California farmers posted ads
for 1,160 farmworker positions open to U.S. citizens and legal residents. But
only 233 people in those categories applied after learning of the jobs through
unemployment offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona.

One grower brought on 36. No one else hired any.

"It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,"
said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department's
agricultural services unit. "If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they
might change their mind."

Sometimes, U.S. workers also will turn down the jobs because they don't want
their unemployment insurance claims to be affected, or because farm labor
positions do not begin for several months, and applicants prefer to be hired
immediately, Ruelas said.

Fortin spent $3,000 this year to make sure that domestic workers have first dibs
on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state, advertising in
newspapers and on an electronic job registry.

But he did not get any takers, even though he followed the requirements of a
little-known, little-used program to bring in foreign farmworkers the legal way
-- by applying for guest worker visas.

The California figures represent only a small part of the national effort to
recruit domestic workers under the H-2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a
snapshot of how hard it is to to get growers to use the program -- and to
attract Americans to farm labor, even in the San Joaquin Valley, where the
average unemployment rate is 15.8 percent.

The majority of farmers rely on illegal labor to harvest their crops, but they
can also use the little-known H-2A visa to hire guest workers, as long as they
request the workers months in advance of the harvest season and can show that no
Americans want the job.

Of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers in California, just 34,
including Fortin, petitioned to bring in foreign farmworkers on the visas,
according to government data for the first eight months of the year.

More than half of farmworkers in the United States are illegal immigrants, the
Labor Department says. Proponents of tougher immigration laws -- as well as the
United Farm Workers of America -- say farmers are used to a cheap, largely
undocumented work force, and if growers raised wages and improved working
conditions, the jobs would attract Americans.

Some U.S. workers referred for jobs at Fortin's nursery couldn't do the grueling
work.

"A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absentee
problems, and we had people asking for time off after they had just started," he
said. "Some were actually planting the plants upside down."

Even California officials say the guest worker program needs fixing, despite a
reform effort announced in February by Labor Secretary Hilda Solis meant to put
more domestic workers in crop-picking jobs.

Benjamin Reynosa, who was picking ruby-colored grapes in 90-degree heat last
week near Fowler, just south of Fresno, said he often is the only legal U.S.
resident on seasonal crews.

He said most people hear about the jobs through word of mouth or signs tacked
outside rural stores, not the electronic registry.

"I've been working in agriculture for 22 years, and I can tell you there are
very few gringos out here," said Reynosa, 49, of Orange Cove, about 30 miles
east of Fresno. "If people know English, they go to work in packinghouses or sit
in an office."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 28, 2010 Tuesday

Santa Clara County supervisors vote to opt out of Secure Communities program

BYLINE: By Tracy Seipel tseipel@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
Crime; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 611 words


Santa Clara County supervisors on Tuesday unanimously voted to pursue opting out
of a controversial federal program that enlists local law enforcement in the
fight against illegal immigration.

Called "Secure Communities," the program gives federal officials access to the
fingerprints of people arrested in local communities. Law-and-order advocates
say it has led to the deportation of tens of thousands of lawbreakers; immigrant
rights and civil liberties groups say it focuses too much on low-level criminals
and doesn't protect against racial profiling.

Rolled out in 2008 across the United States, it was implemented in Santa Clara
County in May.

Tuesday's vote, which elicited resounding applause by activists, sends "a
message to our residents that we are not going to create an atmosphere of fear
in our community," said Supervisor George Shirakawa, who first brought the issue
to the board's attention.

But, he said, the board's vote is "not the end of the issue "... there is more
work to be done."

A seven-page memo released last month by U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement said local jurisdictions can choose not to participate in the
program if they notify their state identification bureau -- in this case, the
California Department of Justice -- and federal officials in writing.

Santa Clara County Deputy County Counsel Anjali Bhargava said her office now
will do just that.

The state attorney general's office had previously denied a request from San
Francisco officials to opt out of the program.

But after the ICE memo last month, San Francisco set up a meeting with state and
federal officials to re-examine the matter.

That meeting had been scheduled for Oct. 13.

But on Tuesday, San Francisco Sheriff Michael Hennessey's office asked both ICE
and the state Department of Justice to delay talks until after the November
election.s

"Secure Communities has become a highly charged issue in the Nov. 2 statewide
elections," said Eileen Hirst, Hennessey's chief of staff.

Attorney General Jerry Brown, who heads the state Justice Department, is the
Democratic nominee for governor, but Hirst said the sheriff's office was not
pressured to delay the meeting.

Brown's office has repeatedly declined to comment on the matter.

But Santa Clara County's Bhargava said that in a recent phone call, the attorney
general's office said the state "will not impose an obligation on the county to
participate."

However, Bhargava added, only the federal Department of Homeland Security --
which oversees ICE -- can "deactivate a jurisdiction" from the program,
according to Brown's office.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said her agency is willing to meet with Santa
Clara County officials.

But she also noted that in the four months since the program's activation here,
ICE has taken custody of 339 deportable illegal immigrants, nearly 75 percent of
whom are convicted criminals.

That includes 98 people with prior convictions for serious or violent offenses,
who Kice said "might have been released to the streets without this important
information-sharing capability."

Santa Clara County leaders have said they never agreed to participate in the
program but inadvertently play a role in it whenever someone is arrested and
taken to the county jail.

At that point, his or her fingerprints are sent to an identification system that
is ultimately downloaded to the state Department of Justice.

That agency, in turn, has a practice of sharing information with the federal
government for law enforcement purposes.

The county doesn't object to that, but it does protest allowing ICE officials to
access the information to verify immigration status.

Contact Tracy Seipel at 408-275-0140.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday

On contemporary immigration questions, Chinese-Americans divided

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 931 words


ANGEL ISLAND -- As he sailed on a ferry to Angel Island State Park last week,
clad in the hooded, brown robe of a Franciscan friar, the Rev. Franklin Fong
imagined his ancestors who landed on the island some 80 years ago.



"It takes every generation of native-born folks to recognize, you know, there's
something to learn from our own history," Fong said. "Because if we don't know
our history, we're destined to repeat it."

The friar at Oakland's St. Elizabeth Catholic Church was one of about 350
people, nearly all of them Chinese-Americans, who took a pilgrimage Saturday to
the island's old immigration station. They prayed, shared stories and sought to
make connections between the plight of Asian immigrants who faced discrimination
a century ago and the challenges faced by newcomers today.

"I think the challenges are very similar," Fong said. "Obviously, the time is
different. The circumstances are different. The nations providing the immigrants
are different, but in many ways we have the same fears, the same anxieties about
why these people are coming and what are we going to do about them."

Opened in 1910 and shut down in 1940, the Angel Island station is remembered as
a detention center more than as a welcoming gateway to America. Many Asian ship
passengers, subject to strict exclusionary laws from 1882 until the mid-20th
century, were interrogated and jailed for weeks or months once they reached the
island in the middle of the San Francisco Bay. Immigration laws of the time
allowed just a sliver of Chinese merchants into the country, but many Chinese
laborers tried to come anyway. Some purchased new identities that would improve
their chances of getting through the island. They were America's first illegal
immigrants, struggling to bypass restrictions that excluded them from the United
States based on their race.

Those who made it through faced harsh rhetoric as local newspapers and political
groups railed against them, blaming them for a host of social and economic ills.


The organizers of Saturday's pilgrimage see parallels between the inflamed
passions over Asians a century ago and the political climate today for new
immigrants.

"The rhetoric is curiously the same to me," said the Rev. Emily Lin of the
Chinese Community United Methodist Church, which has been located in Oakland
Chinatown for 123 years. "It's not so much the Chinese anymore. Now it's sort of
targeting Mexicans and Latin Americans."

You could lift some of today's anti-immigrant signs and slogans, she said, from
those targeting Chinese a century ago. Not all Chinese-Americans in the Bay Area
think the comparison is fair.

"I don't think it has anything to do with race," said Union City accountant
Bondy Ng, speaking of today's immigration policies and debates. "I know there
was discrimination before, in the past. I'm glad that it's over."

Ng joined the Golden Gate Minutemen this year, adding herself to the ranks of a
movement determined to stop illegal crossings of the U.S. border.

"I understand not everybody can come in, but then again, life is not fair," Ng
said. "We should continue welcoming immigrants. We just have to do it smart."

Ng arrived to California on a student visa in the late 1980s, then extended her
stay by obtaining a temporary visa for high-skilled workers. While working here,
she was able to become a permanent legal resident through marriage.

Few polls have asked Chinese-Americans what they think about contemporary
immigration controversies, but those that do find a community that is split.
Chinese-American registered voters in California, for instance, are closely
divided about Arizona's new law, SB 1070, that sought to crack down on illegal
immigration by giving police in Arizona the right to ask people for documents if
they suspect they might be in the country illegally. About 48 percent of
Chinese-American voters approved of the law and 41 percent disapproved,
according to a California Field Poll taken in July.

Those numbers surprised Lin. There was a time, at the height of Asian exclusion
laws, when Chinese immigrants were forced to carry documents to prove their
legal status.

"You would think this is a no-brainer," said Lin, who opposes the law. "But in
fact there is a sense of having assimilated, having lived here long enough that
there is a sense of amnesia about our own immigration history."

Lin, who is Taiwanese-American, brought some of her own congregants on the
pilgrimage to Angel Island, but she has church members who feel different from
her. A congregant recently e-mailed her with sharp criticism of illegal
immigrants, she said.

About 54 percent of Chinese-American voters in California said the overall
effect of illegal immigrants on the state was unfavorable, according to the
Field Poll. Only 29 percent had a favorable opinion about the impact of illegal
immigrants.

"Many Chinese-Americans are struggling, as well," said Yeh Ling-Ling of the
Orinda-based Alliance for a Sustainable USA, which advocates a moratorium on
immigration. "They cannot find work, especially the younger generation. They
have kids out of college who cannot find work."

Yeh, who was born in Vietnam to Chinese parents, said that leads to frustration
about the influx of low-skilled immigrants, including about 120,000 illegal
immigrants from China and many more from Latin America. The debate today is not
comparable, she said, with what happened many decades ago.

"Now, there are so many circumstances that warrant some sort of moratorium," Yeh
said. "It's not as much of a labor-based economy. It's a high-tech economy which
requires less work."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

U.S. immigration agency's statement on the possibility of deporting Meg
Whitman's former housekeeper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 109 words


Statement from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on the
possibility of deporting Meg Whitman's former homekeeper:

As a matter of policy, ICE does not disclose whether it will conduct a specific
law enforcement action in the future. The agency is focused on smart, effective
immigration enforcement that prioritizes efforts to target dangerous criminal
aliens and others who present the greatest risk to our communities. In the
workplace, ICE's enforcement strategy focuses on identifying employers who
knowingly hire unauthorized workers and engage in related crimes such as worker
exploitation, visa fraud and human smuggling and trafficking.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 22, 2010 Friday

Friends, professors rally behind student caught in immigration fight

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 940 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- College student Steve Li found out he was a fugitive on Sept.
15, when immigration agents arrived at sunrise at his Ingleside district home.


He was in the bathroom of the small apartment, cleaning up. His mother was still
sleeping.

"One day, I was getting ready to go to school," said the 20-year-old student at
City College of San Francisco. "The next day I was in the Sacramento County
jail, in a cell."



The agents arrested the aspiring nurse and his mother, and asked for his dad --
the parents are divorced -- then went to arrest the father in another part of
the city. All three of them, Steve Li found out, were illegal immigrants who six
years ago ignored a judge's written order that they go back home.

Home, however, was complicated. Steve Li was born in Peru. His parents were born
in China. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is now seeking to deport all of
them -- Steve Li to Peru and his parents to China.

Steve Li doesn't know anyone in Peru.

"I thought it was a mistake," Li said, speaking by phone Friday from a federal
detention center in the Arizona town of Florence. "I've been living (in the
United States), studying here. I feel like I've been here all my life. All my
friends, my teachers, my family is here."

Monday will mark his 40th day in jail, but for a month hardly anyone knew his
whereabouts.

His parents were also jailed, but the trio was separated and could not get in
touch with each other. A judge released the parents a few weeks ago, ordering
them to wear electronic ankle bracelets as they await their next court hearing.
Their son, however, for reasons still unclear to the family, was transported to
the Arizona detention center to await his expulsion.

"I'm just waiting to be deported, basically," he said Friday. "I'm hoping it
doesn't happen. I'm trying to do whatever I can."

Immigration spokeswoman Lori Haley confirmed his arrest and said the agency is
making arrangements to deport him, but she declined to say why Steve Li was in
Arizona while his parents were not. The agency bases deportation procedures on
the "totality of the case" and concerns such as bed space, she said.

The detention has been a shocking change of course for Li, who dreamed of
becoming a nurse and using his Spanish and Chinese language skills to serve the
medical needs of San Francisco immigrant communities. He is proud of his
Peruvian-Chinese heritage, but left Peru when he was 12 years old. His Spanish
is not as polished as his English, he said, and he would be alone in a strange
land.

His grandparents moved to Peru decades ago, opening a restaurant in Lima that
served chifa, the Peruvian version of Chinese cuisine. His parents joined them
in the late 1980s because of financial hardships in China, to help the aging
grandparents with their business, and to escape China's one-child policy. They
already had a daughter but wanted a second child. They had Li, whose full legal
name is Shing Ma Li but who goes by Steve, in 1990.

The family sought political asylum after they came to the United States on
tourist visas in 2002, but their application was denied. A judge ordered them to
leave in 2004 and an appeals board reviewed the case and upheld the judge's
decision in 2005. They stayed in the country anyway, and Li said his parents
never talked to him about their complications as he went through middle and high
school and now college.

"They always told me everything would be fine, as long as I study and get a
degree," he said.

A team of friends, educators and a newly acquired lawyer is now scrambling to
find a way to bring the student back from Arizona, sending letters to
politicians and creating a Facebook page to raise awareness about his situation.
Launched a few days ago, the page has more than 2,300 supporters.

His personal profile on Facebook says he likes chicha morada, the sugary
Peruvian refreshment made of purple corn, but also the San Francisco Giants and
the Fresh Prince of Bel Air.

"Growing up in a different country gave him a different perspective," said Sang
Chi, a City College professor who taught Li in a history class. "He is
definitely an American kid, there's no mistake about that. But his mind is a
little broader than a lot of people his age."

Chi describes Li as friendly and inquisitive, someone who tries hard at school
and has volunteered at film festivals and other community activities.

On Friday, immigration officials received a request from Li's lawyer, Sin Yen
Ling, asking them to defer his deportation for at least a year. The San
Francisco lawyer argued that Li would be eligible for the DREAM Act, the
proposed legislation that would offer a path to citizenship for undocumented
students; that legislation was voted down by the Senate last month, but
advocates expect it will be reintroduced.

Ling and family members believe Steve Li's deportation is more imminent, and
more likely to happen, than the deportation of his parents. It is easier to
deport someone to Peru than to China because China does not want to repatriate
people who have sought political asylum in the United States, she said.

The agency, the lawyer says, is "just being sort of smart about it, strategic
about it," because it knows the parents have a stronger case to stay.

"If he had been born in China, he'd probably be on the ankle bracelet, walking
around San Francisco right now," said the lawyer. "The reality is, this fugitive
operations clearly isn't fair."

Li said he has passed his time in the detention center reading newspapers and
books and working for $1 an hour in the kitchen. The pay allows him enough money
to buy stamps so he can write letters to plead for his release.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday

Immigrant vets face deportation despite service

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa Associated Press

SECTION: POLITICS; News; National; State

LENGTH: 487 words


When Rohan Coombs joined the Marine Corps, he never thought one day he would be
locked up in an immigration detention center and facing deportation from the
country he had vowed to defend.

Coombs, 43, born in Jamaica, immigrated to the United States legally as a child
with his family. He signed up to serve his adopted nation for six years -- first
in Japan and the Philippines, then in the Persian Gulf during the first war with
Iraq.

Up to 8,000 noncitizens enlist in the armed forces every year and serve
alongside American troops. As of May 2010, there were 16,966 noncitizens on
active duty. The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist.

If noncitizens die while serving, they are given citizenship and a military
funeral. If they live and get in trouble with the law, as Coombs did -- he was
court-martialed for possession of cocaine and marijuana with the intent to
distribute -- they can get caught in the net of a 1996 immigration law that
greatly expanded the list of crimes for which noncitizens can be deported.

"As far as I was concerned, I was a citizen," said Coombs, whose soft-spoken,
introspective nature contrasts with his physical presence. Coombs stands 6 feet
5 inches and weighs more than 260 pounds -- a gentle giant, according to his
fiancee, Robyn Sword.

Now, advocates of noncitizen service members are pushing for change. Attorneys
are taking cases like Coombs' to court, arguing that an immigrant who serves in
the armed forces should be considered a U.S. national and protected from
deportation.

"These are people who served us -- whether they are model human beings or not,"
said Coombs' attorney, Craig Shagin of Harrisburg, Pa. "They served in our
uniforms, in our wars. If they were POWs, they'd be considered American
prisoners."

Rep. Bob Filner, D-Chula Vista, chairman of the House Veterans' Affairs
Committee, is looking into potential changes to the law so immigrants who serve
in the military can avoid deportation.

"You come back from Iraq or Afghanistan today, you have put yourself on the line
for this country," Filner said. "An incredible number of kids come back with an
injury or illness that puts them in trouble with the law. To simply have these
people deported is not a good way to thank them for their service."

Advocates estimate that thousands of veterans have been deported or are in
detention. Government officials say they have no tally but plan to begin
tracking the numbers.

The push comes as criminal courts are increasingly listening to arguments for
leniency for veterans.

So-called veterans courts, which give them specialized treatment, now number
more than 30, with a dozen more planned.

Next month, new U.S. Sentencing Commission rules will make it possible for
federal judges to consider a criminal defendant's military service and mental
and emotional condition to issue a lesser prison sentence. The rules, however,
would not apply to immigration judges.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday

San Jose man back at home, waiting for asylum hearing

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez mgomez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local

LENGTH: 844 words


If not for the actions of his friends and community members, Benito "Benny"
Honorio would probably still be sitting in a Yuba County jail cell awaiting
deportation.

Although he's been released, it remains unclear how much longer the Filipino
immigrant will be allowed to stay in a country he has called home for the past
20 years. Honorio is seeking asylum in the United States for fear that he could
be tortured and killed in the Philippines because of past political activities.

Honorio, 44, who was picked up by U.S. Immigration and Enforcement officials in
August and detained for 48 days, is on supervised release as he awaits a
decision from the federal Board of Immigration Appeals to give him a second
chance to appear before a judge and plead his case for political asylum.

"I think he should have a fair chance to finally have his day in court, but
there is no guarantee," said Honorio's new attorney, Rajat Kuver. "It can go
either way."

Honorio said he arrived late to his first political asylum court hearing in
March 2009 after being given the wrong time by his lawyer. The judge held the
hearing and ordered Honorio deported.

Honorio thought the deportation order had been removed when his former attorney
requested the case be reopened. Then on Aug. 18, ICE agents knocked on the door
of his West San Jose apartment and took him into custody.

For weeks, his friends and co-workers worried that he would be deported to the
Philippines, which would have meant he could not reapply for a new visa for 10
to 20 years.

But Honorio was released, almost suddenly, on Oct. 5 after his attorney received
a phone call from ICE officials looking to make a deal, Kuver said. Honorio's
friends and other community members wrote letters on his behalf; some friends
sought help from Sens. Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein.

They all believe Honorio deserves his day in court.

"If the community doesn't get involved, Benny would still be in detention,"
Kuver said. "I think that's how Benny got released, just because the pressure
was mounting up."

Honorio is thankful for the letters of support, including statements from a San
Jose police officer and Santa Clara City Councilman Jamie Matthews. Honorio, who
is a licensed life insurance agent in the state and specializes in financial
services for annuities and long-term care planning, has scores of clients, many
of whom are police officers.

"I still don't know how to thank my community," Honorio said. "I feel very
blessed and have never felt so loved before."

Honorio wears an ankle monitoring bracelet as part of his supervised release and
must follow a number of rules, including checking in with ICE officials in San
Francisco on a weekly basis. He knows that he could be taken back into custody
at any time for any reason.

As thankful as he is for his friends and community, he cringes when speaking
about his treatment by ICE officials.

After ICE officials failed to locate Honorio's passport, they repeatedly asked
him to sign a waiver that would allow them to request travel documents from the
Philippine Embassy, thus allowing them to deport him.

Honorio refused to sign the document, knowing that the Board of Immigration
Appeals could rule in his favor. Had he cooperated, ICE officials could have
obtained a passport through the Philippine Embassy within 24 hours, Kuver said.

With Honorio in custody, Kuver tried repeatedly to get the Board of Immigration
Appeals to make a ruling on the second court hearing. At one point, Kuver was
told by board officials to call back if Honorio was in custody.

"It seemed like a bureaucratic mess," said Kuver, who wrote a letter to the
appeals board and expressed his frustration that the country's immigration
system "is completely breaking down." Kuver sent copies of the letter to Boxer's
office and the Mercury News.

Two days later, Kuver received a call from an ICE official who wanted to make a
deal. Honorio would be placed on supervised release if he signed the travel
documents. ICE would not attempt to deport Honorio until the appeals board
rendered a decision.

"People came out strongly in favor of him," Kuver said. "That really worked.

Now Kuver is attempting to include those letters from the community as evidence
in any future hearings about Honorio's request for political asylum. If the
Board of Immigration Appeals denies Honorio's request for a second court
hearing, Kuver will file an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals.

Kuver believes that federal officials have already established that Honorio has
a well-founded fear of persecution in the Philippines. The federal immigration
official who first reviewed his case in 2005 believed Honorio's story but
rejected his asylum request, saying that Honorio did not do enough to stop acts
he had witnessed.

Honorio firmly believes that certain groups in the Philippines want him dead. If
he is not allowed to stay in the U.S., he said he will seek refuge in another
English-speaking country.

"There's only one way to get out of their list," Honorio said. "And I'm still
alive."

Contact Mark Gomez at 408-920-5869.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Benito "Benny" Honorio is seeking political asylum in the United
States.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday

Tunnel, 20 tons of pot found at California-Mexico border

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News

LENGTH: 108 words


SAN DIEGO -- U.S. authorities have discovered 20 tons of pot near a tunnel
connecting warehouses on either side of California's border with Mexico.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lauren Mack says today that
the tunnel ran 600 yards under the border near San Diego. It had lighting,
ventilation and a rail system for sending carts of drugs into the United States.

Mack says the tunnel ended close to California's Otay Mesa port of entry.

Officials have found 125 tunnels since they started recording them in the early
1990s. Of those, 75 have been found in the past four years, most along the
California and Arizona border with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday

San Francisco supervisors call for release of student facing deportation

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- A college student facing deportation to Peru won symbolic
support from the city's government Tuesday when the board of supervisors
denounced the federal government for seeking to deport him.

Supervisors unanimously approved a resolution calling for Immigration and
Customs Enforcement to defer the deportation of City College of San Francisco
student Shing Ma "Steve" Li.

The 20-year-old has spent the last 55 days in detention, most recently at a
federal immigration prison facility in Arizona. He has said he knows no one in
Peru. His parents were born in China, but lived in Peru for more than a decade
before coming to the United States on tourist visas in 2002.

A judge ordered the family deported six years ago after denying their request
for political asylum from China. Li's parents face deportation to China, but Li
would be deported to Peru, where he was born.

About a dozen people, including friends, lawyers and a professor, spoke on Li's
behalf at the meeting.

"He doesn't have any family members (in Peru), any friends, nobody," said friend
Marilyn Luu, who added, "He is no less of an American than I am, and I was born
here."

The supervisors' resolution also urges Congress to pass the DREAM Act, which
would provide a path to citizenship to Li and other undocumented students if
they graduate from high school and pursue a college education or military
service.

Days before he was re-elected, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nevada,
vowed to take the DREAM Act up for a vote in the lame-duck session of Congress.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 12, 2010 Friday

College student to be deported to Peru on Monday, lawyer says

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking

LENGTH: 545 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- A college student whose immigration fight has earned an
outpouring of public support is likely to be deported to Peru on Monday, his
lawyer said Thursday.

Immigration agents arrested Steve Li, 20, and his parents Sept. 15, six years
after a judge had ordered the family to leave the country. The City College of
San Francisco student has spent weeks in a detention facility in Arizona where
illegal immigrants are held before being deported.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement would not confirm if Li is to be deported
next week.

For security reasons, the federal agency never discusses the timing of an
impending deportation in advance, said spokeswoman Virginia Kice.

Friends and advocates planned to continue their efforts to get Li released.

"We just need some intervention at the national level in order to keep him from
getting on that plane on Monday," said Lisa Chen of the Asian Law Caucus.

Li was studying to become a nurse. He has said he has no family or friends in
Peru. His parents were born in China and moved to Peru in the 1980s. The family
came to the United States on tourist visas in 2002, when Li was 12. A judge
denied their claim for political asylum.

Li, who attended middle and high school in San Francisco, said he grew up
unaware of the legal complications his family faced. He was one of more than
30,000 people arrested within the last year as part of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's fugitive operations, which seek illegal immigrants who ignored
prior deportation orders.

The board of supervisors on Tuesday unanimously adopted a resolution calling for
his deportation to be suspended.

His lawyer, Sin Yen Ling, also sent a letter last month to the Arizona facility
asking Immigration and Customs Enforcement to grant Li "deferred action." The
agency has the discretion to temporarily halt a deportation based on the merits
of the individual case. That happened this summer when the agency released Eric
Balderas, an undocumented student at Harvard University, after arresting him in
San Antonio. The agency has not responded to Ling's request, she said.

"I think Arizona works in a very different way than in San Francisco," Ling
said. "Some ICE offices may not even give you a response. It's purely
discretionary."

Advocates have also sought help from members of Congress, who occasionally
intervene in immigration cases by introducing private bills. Sen. Barbara Boxer
traditionally does not introduce private legislation, but Sen. Dianne Feinstein
has introduced several bills, including one on behalf of an Armenian student
from Fresno who had faced deportation but now studies at UC Davis. Feinstein's
office has not responded to requests for comment.

Advocates are planning an all-day rally and letter-writing campaign Friday
outside Boxer's San Francisco office.

As they fight for his release, they are also trying to help prepare for what
happens if he lands in Peru next week. They have contacted members of the Bay
Area's Peruvian community who have family members and friends who might be able
to meet him upon his arrival and help him out.

"He has no suitcase, no clothes, just the clothes on his back the day he was
arrested. No relatives, no friends," Ling said. "Housing, clothes and food are
going to be a priority."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday

roundup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


San Francisco

Li Deportation put on hold: The attorney representing a San Francisco college
student scheduled to be deported to Peru today says his deportation has been
pushed back.

Sin Yen Ling, an attorney for the Asian Law Caucus, a civil rights organization
representing Steve Li, says she has been notified by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials that her client will not be deported today as
planned.

Ling says ICE officials did not say why they were delaying Li's deportation, but
it comes after she had applied on behalf of her client for "deferred action" in
the case.

When the government approves such an application, a deportation can be halted
indefinitely.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein has joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and a chorus of
local officials in calling for Immigration and Customs Enforcement to halt the
deportation of Li.

In a written statement Sunday night, Feinstein said she has asked immigration
officials to "halt the deportation proceedings while I consider introducing a
private bill that will allow Mr. Li to remain in the United States on a
temporary basis."

-- Matt O'Brien and wire reports

OAKLAND

Beating victim in critical condition: A man remained hospitalized Sunday night
after a brutal beating Saturday near Lake Merritt left him close to death,
police said.

The man, whose name was not released, was found in the 400 block of Perkins
Street shortly after 10 p.m., police said. He was hospitalized and listed in
critical condition.

No suspects were in custody Sunday night.

Police and Crime Stoppers of Oakland are offering as much as $10,000 in reward
money for information leading to the assailant's arrest. Anyone with information
may call police at 510-238-3821 or Crime Stoppers at 510-777-8572 or
510-777-3211.

-- Sean Maher

NEWARK

Gunmen rob pizzeria: Three men armed with handguns robbed a busy Chuck E.
Cheese's restaurant Saturday night on Mowry School Road, officials said.

Police began receiving 911 calls about the incident at 9:58 p.m., Newark police
Sgt. Manuel Deserpa said.

After entering the building, the men brandished their weapons and herded 40
employees and customers, including children, into a storeroom.

Eleven Newark police officers and some Fremont officers responded, but the
robbers left before they arrived. A nearby Chevys Restaurant was placed on
lockdown until the area was secure.

Deserpa said police had no descriptions of the suspects because the men covered
their faces.

-- Alan Lopez

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2010 Sunday

Attorney: Deportation of Steve Li delayed

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- The attorney representing a San Francisco college student
scheduled to be deported to Peru today says his deportation has been pushed
back.

Sin Yen Ling, an attorney for the Asian Law Caucus, a civil rights organization
representing Steve Li, says she has been notified by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials that her client will not be deported today as
planned.

Ling says ICE officials did not say why they were delaying Li's deportation, but
it comes after she had applied on behalf of her client for "deferred action" in
the case.

When the government approves such an application, a deportation can be halted
indefinitely.

Ling says she hopes to get additional details from ICE officials sometime today
about Li's status.

Immigration agents arrested Li, 20, and his parents Sept. 15, six years after a
judge had ordered the family to leave the country.

Li was studying to become a nurse. He has said he has no family or friends in
Peru. His parents were born in China and moved to Peru in the 1980s. The family
came to the United States on tourist visas in 2002, when Li was 12. A judge
denied their claim for political asylum.

Li, who attended middle school and high school in San Francisco, said he grew up
unaware of the legal complications his family faced. He was one of more than
30,000 people arrested within the past year as part of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's fugitive operations, which seek illegal immigrants who ignored
prior deportation orders.

The San Francisco Board of Supervisors on Tuesday unanimously adopted a
resolution calling for his deportation to be suspended.

Bay Area News Group staff writer Matt O'Brien contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shing Ma (Steve) Li, 20, of San Francisco. (Courtesy/family photo)
Shing Ma (Steve) Li, 20, of San Francisco

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: To be competitive, panel recommends immigration and tax reform

BYLINE: By Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 1860 words


Marshman: Silicon Valley companies and others across America with international
sales often don't bring those profits back to the U.S. because they face a 35
percent tax. Many believe lowering that tax to encourage repatriation of profits
would help the economy. Dave DeWalt and Mike Klayko, how important is this is to
your companies? Why do you think it would be good for the overall economy? What
strings could be attached to help make it happen?

DeWalt: I had a chance to participate in the repatriation of 2004, and it was a
tremendous opportunity for a company like McAfee. We're a pretty large, global
company, in 110 countries, with more than $500 million of net income every year.
More than 60 percent of that is sitting in locations outside the U.S. But just
simply transferring cash on our balance sheet from one location to another is
not enough. So we should think about it a little differently this time to drive
investments back into America.

Klayko: Like Dave, my company generates more revenue offshore than onshore. We
are doing exactly what the president asked in terms of exports, and it's good
for America. Right now, there is between $900 billion and $1.2 trillion in
foreign income sitting offshore. There's not a lot of money coming back. And any
of that money that we can bring here to invest will generate jobs, so it's
critically important to make a change. Comprehensive tax reform is really
critical, too.

Marshman: Let's talk about immigration. Silicon Valley companies have been
trying for years to get Congress to make it easier to bring in educated
engineers and scientists to work here. Secretary Locke, what are the prospects
for immigration reform in the next Congress, especially for the educated people
the valley needs?

Locke: The various political forces on Capitol Hill, in the Congress, have tied
this issue of skilled labor to comprehensive immigration reform, which makes it
even more difficult. But clearly, there is a need. We've got to enable those
skilled workers to come to the United States. We need to ensure that those who
are being trained here and who get advanced degrees are able to stay. It's like
we're almost evicting them out of the United States, even though we know that so
many of the jobs created here in Silicon Valley and around the country have come
from the incredible talent from the best and the brightest around the world. We
need to capitalize on their strengths and their ability to help our country
innovate and ultimately create more jobs. Now there are a lot of folks on
Capitol Hill in the Congress and throughout America that say, "Well, jeez,
you're just bringing people in and taking away jobs from our young people." But
the reality is that we're not graduating enough students from our colleges and
universities skilled in math and engineering, computer sciences, and the whole
host of critical-thinking skills that our companies need right now. And it makes
no sense for us to deprive our companies of the talent and the workers we need
to be prosperous, to innovate, and to improve our quality of life -- not just in
America, but around the world. Let's just hope that after the elections, people
of both parties will come together and say, "We've got to solve this once and
for all."

Marshman: Mike, why is this issue important to Brocade?

Klayko: I want to give you (Locke) an "amen" first. Look around the room. There
is no Silicon Valley without immigration. The companies that are part of the
Leadership Group -- there are 325 companies representing $1.6 trillion of market
cap. Think about that. It's millions of jobs, and a lot of the people in these
companies are foreign-born. And, they're very, very bright people. One of the
approaches we took was to create our own university-development program. We hire
somewhere between 200 and 250 college kids a year, and we invest in them. We
train them. We send them through our own classes. I'd rather have them here,
creating the products here.

DeWalt: Amen! I immigrated to Silicon Valley, not from a foreign country, but
from the coal regions of Pennsylvania. I remember driving my car to Silicon
Valley, and I was like, "I arrived!" That's what we see from people who want to
come to this country and stay in this country.

Marshman: Secretary Locke, Congress probably isn't going to do anything on
cybersecurity until sometime next year. Can you tell us where the administration
stands at this point, and what you're trying to accomplish?

Locke: Well, clearly, cybersecurity is so important. The growth of transactions
over the Internet is exploding. But if there's one thing holding it back, it's
the trust factor. And security is a major part of that concern. So we've got to
develop some clear policies. The Department of Commerce also is taking the lead
in developing the standards for a smart grid for the use of technology in the
transmission of electricity to avoid blackouts and manage our electrical load.
It all comes down to the security of the system, and making sure that it cannot
be hacked and manipulated improperly. So it's a major issue and a major concern
of the administration. We see the incredible benefits of technology over the
Internet; but security is an issue. Congress is going to be taking this up,
probably, a year from now. The administration is very focused on developing our
set of recommendations.

Marshman: We can't let this topic pass without asking Dave DeWalt: What kind of
regulation do you think we need to assure security but still allow companies
like yours to compete?

DeWalt: This is a fantastic age right now with the amount of devices that we can
access. The "smart" devices. The way in which the Internet has grown. The tens
of trillions of dollars that are being used around the Internet. But in the four
years I've been at McAfee, I've seen an almost exponential year-over-year threat
to the promise and opportunity of all this. We're seeing a world where we have
very few governing models as to how the Internet can be managed across borders.
And we're watching cybercrime reach billions and billions of dollars around the
world. It's very hard, from a law-enforcement point of view, to go track down
the criminals. So we need global cooperation. I think the United States has a
great opportunity to lead in this area because we are the ones leading the
innovation.

Marshman: President Obama has said we need to double American exports in five
years. That was just about a year ago, so there are four to go. How is it going,
Mr. Secretary?

Locke: We're on track. U.S. exports so far this year are up 18 percent over the
previous year. Manufactured goods exports are up 22 percent. Agriculture is the
second-highest in exports in U.S. history, and could set an all-time record next
year. But the Department of Commerce simply must do a better job of connecting
buyers and customers around the world to these great opportunities here in
America. I've heard from foreign commercial service officers who say that they
know of hundreds of companies in Hungary that would love to buy products from
America. They just don't know who the great American companies are. And American
companies want to sell to Hungary -- same thing. You don't know who's reliable.
You don't know who's going to pay their bills. You don't know who's reputable,
and so there's a disconnect. We actually have a whole host of programs in the
Commerce Department that will help with this, we just need to do a better job of
advertising all the services and programs that we have.

Marshman: Mike, from a valley perspective, do you think Secretary Locke's
direction is the right one? Are there other things the federal government could
do to help?

Klayko: I think it's a great direction. One of the things that I have found with
my friends who have small businesses is they don't know where to start. Even
though you tell them 95 percent of the consumers are outside the U.S., it's
like, "So what?" Because they don't know where to go. For larger companies we've
got to have comprehensive tax reform. Because if we continue to make all the
investments, and to do all the things you're talking about, it's going to put
more and more earnings offshore again. I think this is something that needs to
be separated out and worked on, and I don't believe there are a lot of people
that disagree. I think it will be something that's going to change the face of
America for the next decade or two.

Locke: One of the problems we face is that you're not allowed to have
differential tax rates that benefit simply exporters. We have to be equitable to
U.S. companies that export, but are domestically based. The repatriation
proposals talk only about lowering the tax rate for multinational companies.
What do you do for the domestic-based company that, let's say, builds dredging
materials in Baltimore, and sells 80 percent of their product, or their
machinery, outside the United States? Those earnings come directly into the
United States, and they're right now paying the full tax rate. It's a
super-complicated issue, but we've got to figure out a way to address it.

Marshman: Secretary Locke, I'd guess that half the people in this room have sent
me proposed op-eds on the patent problem. Some in Silicon Valley have suggested
that there be regional patent offices. What are the chances of that happening?

Locke: We are looking at creating a regional patent office and establishing them
around the country. Part of the reforms that we're instituting at the Patent and
Trademark Office include allowing more upfront discussion between patent
applicants and the examiners, so that we don't have this back-and-forth of
paperwork, letters, correspondence, you know, going past each other, and not
really getting to the heart of the controversy, or the issues that our patent
examiners face. And one way to do that is to have those face-to-face
discussions, and regional offices would facilitate that. We are on a mission at
the Department of Commerce and the Patent and Trademark Office to substantially
reduce the time it takes to process and review a patent. Right now, it's almost
three years, on average. That, to me, is scandalous   absolutely unacceptable.
We are on a mission to get it down to one year. We're really on a mission to
reform the Patent and Trademark Office.

DeWalt: I really applaud your efforts here. We have a company where patents are
tremendously important. The security industry is very, very dynamic, and for us
to wait years to get the patent approved is just -- it just doesn't work. Hardly
a week or a month goes by that I don't find myself in a scenario where I've got
trouble with some patent that either is pending or has been approved. So we need
reform in this area, including having a way of managing legal reform around
patents. And if you could eliminate the Federal Eastern District of Texas for
me, that might be a key for those who know Marshall, Texas! (laughter).

Participants:

Gary Locke, secretary, U.S. Department of Commerce
Michael Klayko, CEO, Brocade Communications Systems
David G. DeWalt, president and CEO, McAfee
Barbara Marshman, editorial page editor, San Jose Mercury News, moderator



LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday

SJSU students rally to urge passage of Dream Act

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez jrodriguez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 726 words


For years, college students Christian Poblano and Luis Romero had quietly
supported the Dream Act. On a sunny but chilly Tuesday afternoon in downtown San
Jose, the two undocumented immigrants stood in front of a line of news cameras
and finally spoke out.

"I always secretly supported the Dream Act," Poblano said in front of the Martin
Luther King Jr. Library. "I definitely still feel scared, but I feel encouraged
and empowered because I'm speaking for those who want to speak out but feel they
can't."

He was only a few months old when his parents brought him to San Jose from
Mexico City. Poblano is now an 18-year-old freshman at San Jose State, and the
Dream Act proposal has been around for half of his life. First introduced in
2001, the congressional measure would grant legal residency to a generation of
illegal immigrants who were brought here as children.

They feel time is running out. While the Dream Act has support from Democrats
and Republicans, it doesn't stand much of a chance after a more conservative
Congress -- and slate of tea party candidates -- takes power in January.

"This is it for me," said Romero, who was 5 when his parents brought him to the
United States. The 25-year-old senior will graduate soon with a bachelor's
degree in justice studies but without the legal status to put his education to
work in this country. "My future depends a lot on passing the Dream Act now."

He's thinking about his options if the bill doesn't pass; he might go to medical
school in Mexico or emigrate to Canada.

About a dozen students and immigrant-rights activists attended Tuesday's news
conference, which ended with cell phone calls to a Dream Act hot line that
connected supporters to members of Congress. Poblano reached the message box for
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. The Nevada Democrat has already vowed to move
for a vote. Poblano left a message anyway.

"Hello, I'm calling from San Jose, California. It's a very important piece of
legislation to be passed."

Like many college students who would benefit if the bill passes, Poblano and
Romero speak flawless English and have blended into the large student body. With
a mop-top haircut like former Beatle Paul McCartney, Poblano knows what he'd do
if the bill passes.

"The first thing I would do," he said, "is get a driver's license. Then I'd look
for a job."

As undocumented students, both pay in-state tuition but are not eligible for
government scholarships or loans and cannot work legally without Social Security
cards. Neither student has left the country for fear of not being able to
return.

The Dream Act would grant legal residency to illegal immigrants who arrived
before the age of 16, lived here for at least five years and completed two years
of college or military service. They must have no criminal record and must pass
background checks before they can become legal residents or permanent citizens.
Until then, however, they would not qualify for federal scholarships even if
they win residency.

An estimated 825,000 out of 2.1 million undocumented students could gain legal
status if the measure passes. About 553,000 of them live in California.

Officially named the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, the
bill has enjoyed some measure of bipartisan support. The bill's co-author is
Sen. Richard Lugar, a Republican from Indiana. Other GOP supporters include
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, former Secretary of State Collin Powell and
former Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez.

However, chances are the Dream Act will get floor action but not come to a vote.
Each political party and the White House have must-pass and hope-to-pass
priorities. These include a compromise on renewing the Bush-era tax cuts for
wealthy families, extending federal unemployment benefits and a measure to send
$250 checks to Social Security recipients.

Some Republicans object to the bill because they say it opens the door to the
legalization of youths' undocumented parents and other family members.

Poblano and Romero said they will appeal for passage to the very end of the
session, asking politicians and Americans in general to put their youth, hard
work and love of country over their illegal status.

"We go to school, we make friends, we speak the language," Poblano said. "We are
like you. I'm very blessed to be here."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at 408-920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Luis Romero, 25, of San Jose State University speaks at a rally in
front of the school library in San Jose on Nov. 30, 2010 to gain support for the
Dream Act. The Dream Act bill would legalize undocumented people who were
brought over to the U.S. as children and completed two years of college or
military service. Romero is a senior at SJSU and is also undocumented. (Gary
Reyes /Mercury News)
Luis Romero, 25, of San Jose State University speaks at a rally in front of the
school library in San Jose on Nov. 30, 2010 to gain support for the Dream Act.
The Dream Act bill would legalize undocumented people who were brought over to
the U.S. as children and completed two years of college or military service.
Romero is a senior at SJSU and is also undocumented. (Gary Reyes /Mercury News)
Christian Poblano, 18, of San Jose State University speaks at a rally in front
of the school library in San Jose on Nov. 30, 2010 to gain support for the Dream
Act. The Dream Act bill would legalize undocumented people who were brought over
to the U.S. as children and completed two years of college or military service.
Poblano is a freshman at SJSU and is also undocumented. (Gary Reyes /Mercury
News)
Luis Romero, 25, of San Jose State University speaks at a rally in front of the
school library in San Jose on Nov. 30, 2010 to gain support for the Dream Act.
The Dream Act bill would legalize undocumented people who were brought over to
the U.S. as children and completed two years of college or military service.
Romero is a senior at SJSU and is also undocumented. (Gary Reyes /Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 8, 2010 Wednesday

House passes Dream Act; bill faces tougher fight in Senate

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 933 words


The House of Representatives voted to pass the Dream Act on Wednesday night,
catapulting to the Senate a bill that would offer a path to citizenship for
hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who came to the country when they
were children.

"This is about a commitment to our future," said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi,
D-San Francisco, speaking after more than an hour of emotional debate between
lawmakers Wednesday night. "It's about a recognition of what these young people
can mean for our country."

The Dream Act would give conditional green cards to undocumented immigrants if
they graduate from high school and pursue a college education or military
service. After a 10-year waiting period, they could obtain permanent residency
if they met all the requirements, and they could eventually apply for
citizenship.

The 216-198 vote fell largely on partisan lines, though 38 Democrats voted
against it and eight Republicans voted for it.

UC Berkeley student Ju Hong was effusive as he watched the proceedings on C-Span
at a coffee shop near campus.

"I don't know how to describe it. I'm really excited about it right now," said
Hong, whose mother brought him to the United States from South Korea when he was
11. "It's going to be really tough in the Senate, but now that the House has
passed it, it's going to bring a little more pressure."

The bill faces a bigger hurdle in the Senate because it must get a
filibuster-proof majority of at least 60 votes. The Senate was scheduled to vote
on the Dream Act on Thursday morning, but instead voted to table consideration
of the bill so that it can be considered next week.

Hong, a political science major, left a final exam study session with nervous
excitement, trying to study but aware that the congressional proceedings will
have a huge impact on his life.

"The Dream Act is the only solution for me right now," Hong said. "This is a
really critical week. If the Dream Act fails this year, it's going to be really
tough the following year and the following year."

The 21-year-old played varsity basketball at Alameda High School, worked under
the table at a local restaurant to raise money for college and became a high
honors student and student body president at Laney College before transferring
to UC Berkeley. When he graduates, however, he will be unable to get a
professional job, and faces a constant risk of deportation, he said.

Beneficiaries would have to be under 30 years old to qualify and must have
arrived in the country before their 16th birthday. According to the House
version voted on Wednesday, they will also pay $2,525 in fees for the privilege
of legal residency -- $525 to apply, and $2,000 five years later to extend the
conditional visa.

California is estimated to have about a quarter of the more than 800,000 people
who could benefit from the act.

"It's the right thing to do for these young people," said Rep. Barbara Lee,
D-Oakland, speaking on the House floor earlier in the day. All of California's
House Democrats voted for the bill, with the exception of Adam Schiff,
D-Burbank, who did not vote at all. Most California Republicans voted against
it. Two Republicans, Brian Bilbray, R-Solana Beach, and George Radanovich,
R-Mariposa, also did not vote.

"Shall we further punish these 800,000 young people with deportation or by
keeping them in legal limbo, or should we allow these highly motivated youth to
attend colleges and become productive members of our society?" Lee asked fellow
lawmakers. "The answer should really be quite obvious."

Republicans complained that House Democrats were trying to ram the bill through
in the lame-duck session, not giving lawmakers enough time to review changes and
amendments that had been made in recent days. Most of the amendments made the
bill more strict. Many also warned that the bill would invite fraudulent
applications and would encourage more illegal immigration.

Many of the House Republicans who condemned the bill most forcefully Wednesday
referred to the act as a nightmare, not a dream, and argued it would unfairly
harm U.S. citizens who would face more competition from newly legalized
immigrants in college admissions, federal loans, work-study programs and the
workforce.

"It would put them ahead of most American citizens and legal immigrants," said
Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Costa Mesa, who called the bill an "affirmative action
amnesty nightmare" that would particularly hurt non-minorities.

Of the handful of Republicans who crossed the aisle to vote with the Democratic
majority, the most vocal supporters were three Cuban-American lawmakers from
Florida.

"We are a meritocracy," said Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, R-Florida, one of the
bill's cosponsors who urged fellow Republicans to vote for it.

The White House spent weeks publicly touting the bill as something that would
boost the economy, academic achievement and military recruitment. Giving
undocumented immigrants the right to work through the Dream Act would reduce the
deficit by between $1.4 billion and $2.2 billion over 10 years because of income
and social insurance taxes, according to reports by the Congressional Budget
Office that came out days before the vote.

In the following decade, however, the bill could increase the deficit by more
than $5 billion as immigrants become eligible for social services, according to
the same reports.

The Dream Act once had the support of many Republican lawmakers, but most now
oppose it as a mass amnesty, as do some Democrats. That means an uphill fight in
the Senate, where the bill would need the support of some Republicans and most
of the 58 Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin of Ill., left, Rep. Luis Gutierrez,
D-Ill., look on during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington,
Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010, to discuss the Dream Act legislation. (AP Photo/Harry
Hamburg)
Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin of Ill., speaks to reporters on Capitol Hill
in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010. (AP Photo/Harry Hamburg)
Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., center, accompanied by Senate Majority Whip Richard
Durbin of Ill., left, and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, gestures
during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010,
to discuss the Dream Act legislation. (AP Photo/Harry Hamburg)
Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin of Ill., center, accompanied by Rep. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., left, and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano,
speaks about the Dream Act legislation, Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010, on Capitol Hill
in Washington. (AP Photo/Harry Hamburg)
Education Secretary Arne Duncan, second from right, and Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano, right, accompanied by Senate Majority Whip Richard
Durbin of Ill., left, and Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., second from left,
gestures during a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Dec.
8, 2010, to discuss the Dream Act legislation, which would pave the way for
legalizing young immigrants. (AP Photo/Harry Hamburg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday

Democrats delay action on Dream Act to help young immigrants get legal status

BYLINE: By Julie Hirschfeld Davis Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 120 words


WASHINGTON -- Democrats have delayed a showdown vote on legislation carving out
a path to legal status for foreign-born youngsters brought to this country
illegally.

Facing GOP objections, Democrats are putting aside the so-called Dream Act.
They're short of the 60 votes needed to advance the measure.

Democratic officials say they'll try to move a House-passed version after the
Senate acts on funding the government and extending tax cuts. Republicans have
said they won't agree to consider anything else until those issues are
addressed.

The bill grants hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants brought to the
United States as children a chance to gain legal status if they enroll in
college or join the military.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday

Opinion: Democrats no better on immigration than GOP

BYLINE: By Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 681 words


SAN DIEGO -- Recently, I gave Republicans some advice about how to talk about
the immigration issue -- and, just as importantly, how not to talk about it.

Now it's the Democrats' turn. They make their share of mistakes in discussing
one of the most sensitive and controversial issues on the national agenda, and
they need just as much coaching as do Republicans.

To begin with, Democrats need to stop thinking of themselves as inherently more
enlightened than the competition when it comes to the immigration debate, and
let their actions prove it. Many liberals take for granted that most Republicans
are nativists, and they're glad they don't have that failing. This fulfills the
basic need of many on the left to feel morally superior to the rest of us and
reaffirms the idea that they alone can come up with a solution to our
immigration problem.

I don't know about that. I get angry and racist e-mails from self-described
liberal Democrats all the time, usually after I've defended Sarah Palin or
praised George W. Bush. Such ugliness isn't limited to one political party.
Besides, I'd wager that, once you brush away all the lofty rhetoric, most
Democrats ultimately care about the same thing that most Republicans care about
-- winning elections and maintaining power.

And so, no matter what they promise while campaigning, they will stall or kill
any legislation that threatens to cost them votes. That's why, even with
Democrats controlling Congress since January 2007 and the White House since
January 2009, nothing got done on immigration reform. In fact, it was a Democrat
-- former White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel -- who famously referred to
the issue as the "third rail" of American politics.

Next, Democrats need to stop pandering to organized labor, which is a group that
is always predisposed to view immigration as a problem because it sees
immigrants as competition. Many unions have come around to the idea of
legalizing illegal immigrants because it means a chance to enlist new members,
but not if it means swallowing the GOP's demand to bring in additional batches
of temporary guest workers. Organized labor believes that foreign workers of any
kind -- legal or illegal -- threaten U.S. workers. And it contributes enough
money to Democrats to get them to believe it too.

The left should make the argument to union workers that a completely legalized
work force would benefit them because employers could no longer pay illegal
workers less than those with a union card. Democrats might also throw in a dose
of tough love by telling those union workers that, if they're suffering the
embarrassment of being displaced by unauthorized, low-skilled, largely
uneducated workers who often don't speak English, it might be time to acquire
more skills or look for another line of work.

Lastly, Democrats should kick the habit of using the immigration issue to
manipulate Latinos. They can't resist exploiting how tone-deaf the GOP can be on
the immigration issue, perhaps assuming: "What alternative do Hispanic voters
have?"

Consider the liberal reader who recently wrote to take issue with my contention
that President Barack Obama was wise to support the tax-cut compromise. The
reader insisted that Obama was foolish to try to "make people who despise him
play nice" and that the GOP was sure to thwart the rest of his agenda. And then
the reader threw in this gratuitous item at the end: "Good luck with the Dream
Act, btw."

So, in response to a column about tax cuts, a reader makes sure to inform a
Mexican-American columnist that Republicans are unlikely to pass a bill that
gives undocumented immigrants legal status if they attend college or join the
military? What does one have to do with the other?

As a party, Democrats need to show some respect. If those on the left think a
piece of legislation makes sense, then pass it. Don't use it a ploy or hold it
out as a carrot to make a donkey pull a cart. When dealing with the immigration
issue, Democrats should spend more time resolving obstacles -- and less time
looking for ways to get mileage out of the impasse.



LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

Oakland special education teacher denied permanent residency

BYLINE: By Katy Murphy Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 690 words


OAKLAND

An immigration roadblock has cost the Oakland school district an experienced and
respected special-education teacher, right in the middle of the school year.

Maria Elena Rodriguez, better known as Bambi, said goodbye to her students,
their parents and her colleagues Wednesday in a tearful send-off at the Burbank
Preschool Center.

"Bambi, I know your quiet strength," said Vicki Van Steenberg, a Mills College
professor of education who has sent many student-teachers to Rodriguez's
classroom. "I cannot believe you're not going to be here."

The Filipina citizen has lived in San Francisco for 11 years. She earned a
master's degree in special education from San Francisco State and has taught
special-needs children in Oakland since 2003. But she learned two weeks ago that
a critical step for becoming a permanent resident -- a petition that has been
pending since 2008 -- was denied by the United States Department of Labor. Her
guest worker visa expires Dec. 23, leaving her no time to appeal.

Oakland Unified has for years hired teachers of other nationalities for
positions that are difficult to fill. About 45 of its teachers have temporary
work visas. While the

district no longer recruits special-needs teachers from overseas, it still
relies on a "visiting teacher program" to staff some of its bilingual elementary
school and Spanish positions, said Jeff Dillon, recruitment supervisor for the
school district.

Rodriguez has an H-1B visa, which requires special knowledge or skill in a
certain field. But the permit can only be renewed for up to six years, unless a
green card application or other petition for long-term residency has been filed.

District spokesman Troy Flint said Oakland Unified uses immigration law firms to
help teachers gain permanent residence if they wish to keep teaching in Oakland.
Without a spouse or other close relative who is a U.S. citizen, some -- such as
Rodriguez -- apply for a green card on the basis of their skills and employment.

When Rodriguez came to Oakland almost eight years ago, she took a position that
had been vacant for months; she started in February. But Marion McWilliams, a
lawyer for the Oakland school district, said the U.S. Department of Labor
determined there were enough U.S. citizens who could fill the teaching position
-- at least, by the minimum standard set by the federal government. Without the
stamp of approval from the labor department, Rodriguez couldn't apply for a
green card.

Parents and staff members at Burbank, a program for special-needs preschoolers
near Mills College, say Rodriguez's knowledge, caring nature and sense of calm
will be hard to replace. They also worry about the effect of such a sudden
transition on young children with autism and other disabilities. Some said they
were heartened to know that a friend of Rodriguez's -- also an experienced
teacher -- is in line for the position.

Alana Rosen, a special-education teacher at Oakland's Howard Elementary School,
said she leaned on Rodriguez for guidance and support during her first year in
the classroom. They worked together at Tilden, a school that's now closed.

That was five years ago. To this day, Rosen said, when she finds herself losing
patience or in a difficult spot, she thinks to herself, "What would Bambi do?"

When she realized her time in the United States would be short, Rodriguez did
what she so often does: She thought about the children in her class. To tell
them she was leaving and assure them it would be OK, she made a photo book
titled, "How do I love thee? (with apologies to Elizabeth Barrett Browning)."

"For my Portable 4 kiddos, I will really, really, really miss you," she wrote.

While dismayed by the sudden turn of events, Rodriguez has no shortage of
prospects. She might move to Australia or return to the Philippines, where her
family lives. After a year, she'd be eligible for another guest worker visa in
the United States, should she decide to return.

"It's hard to leave because of the kids," she said. "I would have loved to stay
until the end of the school year."

Read Katy Murphy's blog at IBABuzz.com/education . Follow her at
Twitter.com/katymurphy .

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 18, 2009 Wednesday

Commentary: Immigration kept parents apart for 15 years

BYLINE: By Mike Chow for Sunnyvale Sun

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 420 words


The following is Mike Chow's account about his family's difficulties in
immigrating to the the United States from China before settling in Sunnyvale,
where his parents operated a chrysanthemum farm.

My father entered the United States at the age of 16 in 1926 as the son of a
farm worker. This person who brought my father into this country was not really
my grandfather. He was just somebody who was granted permission to enter the
U.S. He claimed that my father was one of his sons. My father worked for this
man for years as a farm laborer with very little pay. I suppose that there was
some debt that was owed to this person for bringing him into this country.

Back then it was very difficult for the Chinese to immigrate into this country.
The Chinese Exclusion Act, passed in 1882, was still in effect, making it almost
impossible for the Chinese to get into the U.S.

In about 1934, the marriage of my mother and father was arranged through letters
between relatives and acquaintances. The marriage ceremony was performed in
China by proxy, because my father could not be there. A rooster stood in for my
father during the ceremony. After they were married my mother was put on a ship
bound for the U.S. to meet my father for the first time. The trip took about a
month. When she arrived, my mother was sent to Angel Island for processing.

The immigration authorities decided to detain my mother there until her
paperwork was verified or straightened out. My mother was detained on Angel
Island for 18 months before she was denied access and ultimately sent back to
China. While she was being detained, my father would come up every week for the
18-month period she was there. When she arrived back in China, she had to live
with my father's mother because she was recognized as my father's wife. She
could not go back to live with her own family.

My mother lived with my grandmother for 15 years. Even though the Chinese
Exclusion Act was repealed in 1943, it wasn't until 1949 that my father tried
again to bring her into the U.S. This time he was successful. Five of us kids
were born after my mother arrived. All of us were born in the 1950s. There were
three boys and two girls in my family. We all grew up on a farm that my father
and mother purchased in 1954.

See next week for Part 2: Life on a crhysanthemum farm.

Chow's story is part of the Sunnyvale Public Library's digital story telling
project made possible through a grant form the California State Library. For
more information, go to stories.in sunyvale.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Sociologist urges better integration of foreign-trained nurses

BYLINE: By LJ Anderson For The Daily News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 964 words


Sheba George was just 10 years old when she stood at an airport window in
Bangalore, India, and tearfully watched her mother leave to work as a nurse in
the United States. It would be two years before George and the rest of the
family would be reunited with her. This experience would play out for thousands
of other Indian families as nurses immigrated to the United States in greater
numbers   spurred by passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965
which encouraged entry of skilled professionals.

Today, Sheba George, Ph.D., is a sociologist who studies health care, and in
particular, the immigration patterns of Indian nurses. She is an assistant
professor at the Charles Drew University of Medicine and Science in Los Angeles.
George holds a doctorate in sociology from UC-Berkeley, and is the author of
"When Women Come First: Gender and Class in Transnational Migration."

Q: How did your childhood and family influence your career in nursing research?

A: While I am not a nurse, I have lived among nurses all of my life. As a person
of Indian origin, I grew up in a community of Indian nurses in the United
States. My mother, several of my aunts, the mothers of many friends   and now a
new generation of cousins and friends   are nurses. As a sociologist, I have
studied the experiences of Indian immigrant nurses to the United States
specifically, Christian nurses from the state of Kerala   and understand their
experiences in a broader context.

Q: What has defined the immigration of Indian nurses to the United States?

A: The nurses I interviewed had tremendous challenges to overcome before they
could work in their full professional capacities in the U.S. From language
comprehension difficulties to prohibitively expensive costs for preparatory
classes and the taking of licensing exams, they faced many hardships in passing
their board exams.

Even after obtaining their licenses, they faced other barriers   which were less
expected by many of them. In U.S. hospitals and nursing homes, they confronted a
racialized division of labor. Before passing the state boards, they were forced
to work as nurses' aides with other mostly minority women. With registrations in
hand, they were more likely to be recruited for inner-city hospitals, and to
work in wards that were physically labor-intensive and had a high burnout rate
for American-trained nurses. On the ward floor, immigrant nurses faced
discrimination from patients, doctors and hospital administration, as well as
from their peers. Many of the nurses spoke of their experiences of being
rejected by patients who outrightly asked for "white nurses."

Q: Were there any positive aspects to the immigration experience?

A: Despite the limitations they encountered, the Indian immigrant nurses I
interviewed brought up "total patient care" as a nursing practice that was
different from what they were accustomed to in India. As patient-care managers,
teachers, students, or consultants, immigrant nurses talked about how they were
able to practice their profession in new and varied ways. In spite of racism and
the devaluation of their work, they were able to appreciate the positive and
empowering aspects of work in the United States.

Q: What was the effect on the families of immigrating nurses?

A: The nurses in my study immigrated first and established themselves before
bringing their families over. This was a huge challenge for nurses who came from
a society where traditionally women do not tend to travel alone, particularly to
faraway lands to establish themselves as breadwinners. When their families
arrived, there were more complicating factors. Whereas their wives were able to
find stable and better-paying jobs, the majority of the men were not able to
transfer their skills or work experiences to the United States. Many of the men
that I interviewed were reluctant to tell me exactly what they did for a living.
But most of those who did, revealed that they worked in occupations that were of
less status and lower pay than their wives, which was often a reversal of their
situation in India. So in addition to getting settled in a new society, nurses
and their husbands had to deal with unexpected tensions resulting from dramatic
changes in gender relations in their homes and communities.

Q: How could U.S.-trained nurses, physicians and administrators better
understand the experience of immigrant nurses?

A: The work force is getting more diverse   racially, linguistically, culturally
and nationally. And there are unspoken burdens that are often carried by this
global work force. Emotionally and mentally, these burdens place further limits
on these workers' ability to function effectively and enhance the quality of
care in their workplaces.

To support the integration of foreign-born nurses into their U.S. work settings,
I believe that standardized orientation programs (in all settings) are needed to
introduce them to the U.S. health care system and its legal, technological and
professional standards. They should also be provided with training in cultural
competency and cross-cultural communication skills.

Secondly, with foreignness comes the questioning of qualifications and
credentials and the implication that nurses from other countries may bring down
the professional nursing standards of the host country. Yet recent U.S. census
data shows that immigrant nurses have, on average, higher educational levels
than their U.S.-born counterparts and the technical qualifications necessary to
do the job. Health-care organizations who employ such workers should educate
patients, administrators and co-providers about the qualifications and
competence of foreign-trained nurses.

LJ Anderson writes on health matters every other Wednesday. She can be reached
at www.ljanderson.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 8, 2009 Tuesday

Opinion: Patrick J. Buchanan: Halting immigration would be an instant stimulus
package

BYLINE: By Patrick J. Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 595 words


At last week's Job Summit, there was talk of a second stimulus package, of tax
credits for small businesses that hire new workers, of an Infrastructure Bank to
select national priority public works projects like the Hoover Dam and TVA of
yesteryear.

But no one, it seems, advanced the one obvious idea that would have the most
immediate and dramatic impact   a moratorium on all immigration into the United
States.

Unemployment is at 10 percent, near the postwar high of 1983. Fifteen million
Americans are out of work. Ten million more have given up looking or are working
fewer hours than they would like.

We have been losing jobs every month for two years.

Why, then, are we still bringing immigrants into the United States at a rate of
125,000 a month to take jobs from fellow Americans and compete with our
unemployed for the jobs that open up?

In the last year, 1.5 million new immigrants have come to take up residence and
been issued work permits. Probably twice as many jobs have been taken by these
folks as the 650,000 the Obamaites claim were saved or created by their $787
billion stimulus package. How do Democrats justify this?

As for illegal aliens, it is estimated that 8 million still hold jobs in the
United States. Endlessly we are told that these hardworking folks are just doing
jobs that Americans refuse to do.

But Middle American News has taken a look at the Census Bureau data. In almost
all the occupations to which unskilled and semiskilled illegal aliens gravitate,
native-born Americans hold most of the jobs.

U.S. citizens account for well over half of all housekeepers, maids, taxi
drivers and chauffeurs in the U.S., almost two-thirds of all the butchers, meat
processors and ground maintenance and construction workers, and three-fourths of
all porters, bellhops and janitors.

We are told that many if not most of these are "dead-end jobs" Americans do not
want. Yet, how can that be true when American citizens are already doing most of
these jobs?

As related here in October, USA Today found that, invariably, when U.S.
authorities raid a plant site where hundreds of illegal aliens are working, and
send them packing, hundreds of Americans show up and apply for the jobs. Is this
not as it should be, if we are looking out for our own people first?

Why, then, is the Obama administration cutting back on job-site raids and
inspections? Why is the administration talking of moving in 2010 to legalize the
status of the 12 million to 20 million illegal aliens in the United States?

Nor is it only working-class Americans who are being shouldered aside by the
annual flood tide of immigrants.

As Jerry Woodruff, editor of Middle American News, writes: "Immigrants are
taking good, high-paying jobs from highly skilled Americans. The Census Bureau
found that 34 percent of all software engineers "... are immigrants. Yet, the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers reports that 48,000 U.S.
software engineers are unemployed."

If Obama wants to take executive action to assist Americans out looking for
work, he could take two strong and effective steps.

First, call on Congress to vote a moratorium on immigration until the
unemployment rate falls below 6 percent. Second, instruct Homeland Security and
the Justice Department to renew the raids and enforce the law against employers
who are taking jobs from Americans by illegally hiring undocumented aliens.

If Obama did that, suddenly folks would sit up and say, as they did after Ronald
Reagan busted the air controllers, "This man is serious."

Patrick J. Buchanan is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 11, 2009 Friday

Immigration agents arrest 280 with criminal convictions in massive sweep

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; News; State;
Local

LENGTH: 678 words


In the largest such operation in its six-year history, the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency arrested 280 foreign nationals in California with
criminal records in a three-day enforcement surge that ended Thursday night.

Of those taken into custody, 119 were from Northern California and 24 were from
the San Jose area.

Surprisingly, however, the operation drew little of the harsh criticism that has
accompanied past ICE raids. The reason: The operation was extremely targeted,
focusing solely on capturing immigrants with criminal records.

It signaled a shift in the enforcement priorities of ICE in the age of President
Barack Obama and the Department of Homeland Security under Janet Napolitano.

ICE reported that about 80 percent of the immigrants taken into custody had
prior convictions for serious or violent crimes such as rape, armed robbery and
assault with a deadly weapon. Also arrested were 30 convicted sex offenders,
many of whom had been found guilty of sexually assaulting children.

"These are not people we want walking our streets," John Morton, the Homeland
Security assistant secretary who oversees ICE, said at a Friday news conference
in Los Angeles. "We're going to focus on those people who choose to pursue a
life of crime in the United States rather than pursue the American dream of
education, hard work and success."

ICE had been under intense criticism for using its fugitive operations teams to
arrest illegal immigrants indiscriminately to meet quotas. A report released in
February by the Migration Policy Institute, a think tank in Washington, D.C.,
found that 73 percent of the nearly 97,000 people arrested by the teams from
2003 to early 2008 were undocumented immigrants without criminal records.

In stark contrast, all but six of the 286 people arrested in this week's
operation had criminal records. The only others arrested in the operation were
six people who had deportation orders, said Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman.

"It does seem like they did a lot more careful job of arresting just the people
they were targeting," said Doris Meissner, a senior fellow at the Migration
Policy Institute who headed the old Immigration and Naturalization Service
during the Clinton administration. "It sounds exactly the way a sophisticated,
federally led operation should take place."

Cesar Juarez, organizing director of the Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network in San Jose, said the group had gotten only a handful of phone
calls about the arrests. He said many immigrants are much more interested in an
immigration reform bill that could be introduced as early as next week by Rep.
Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat.

The special operation involved more than 400 agents from ICE, the U.S. Marshals
Service and several other state and local agencies, Kice said.

Of those arrested in the enforcement surge, she said, more than 100 have already
been removed from the country.

She said at least 17 of the people taken into custody will face further federal
prosecution, most for re-entering the country illegally after a formal
deportation. A felony conviction on that charge carries a penalty of up to 20
years in prison.

According to ICE, among those arrested in the South Bay were:


     ·    A 26-year-old Gilroy man convicted two years ago of lewd and
          lascivious conduct with a child under 14. He had entered the U.S.
          illegally in 1991.



     ·    A 47-year-old Mexican national from San Jose with a long criminal
          history that includes convictions for transporting and selling a
          controlled substance; carrying a loaded firearm and inflicting
          corporal injury on a spouse. He had re-entered the U.S. illegally
          after being deported in 1988.



     ·    A 35-year-old man from San Jose with convictions for unlawful
          intercourse with a minor under 16 and lewd and lascivious acts with a
          child. The Mexican national had re-entered the U.S. illegally
          following deportation in 2006.


Because immigration arrests are considered administrative rather than criminal,
ICE does not release the names of those taken into custody.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at 408-920-5552.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officer stands next to
a fugitive before entering a staging facility in Los Angeles, Wednesday, Dec. 9,
2009. The man was apprehended by ICE officers during their National Fugitive
Operations search. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong)
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers and Los Angeles police
officers enter a house as they search for a fugitive during ICE's National
Fugitive Operations search in Los Angeles Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2009. (AP Photo/Jae
C. Hong)
A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officer walks through an
apartment complex while searching for a fugitive during ICE's National Fugitive
Operations search in Huntington Park, Calif., Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2009. (AP
Photo/Jae C. Hong)
A nurse checks the temperature of a fugitive as a precaution against H1N1 swine
flu before entering a staging facility in Los Angeles, Wednesday, Dec. 9, 2009.
The man was apprehended by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
officers during ICE's National Fugitive Operations search Wednesday. (AP
Photo/Jae C. Hong)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 4, 2010 Monday

Feds charge record number of immigration crimes

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports; Crime; News;
National; Local

LENGTH: 854 words


As Israel Gonzalez-Reyes recently stood before a San Jose judge for sentencing,
his case had all the ingredients of the most common crime in the nation's
federal courts over the past year.

The 39-year-old defendant had been deported to his native Mexico on eight
separate occasions, repeatedly returning to the United States before winding up
in jail, usually charged with a variety of state crimes ranging from burglary to
drunken driving. Federal prosecutors had had enough   this time around,
Gonzalez-Reyes was charged under criminal immigration laws forbidding the
illegal re-entry of a deported alien back into the United States.

More than ever, federal prosecutors are using such felony charges and the threat
of serious federal prison time to make lawbreakers think twice before making
another trip across the border. In 2009, the U.S. Justice Department filed
nearly 92,000 immigration-related criminal cases in the federal courts. The
record-breaking trend accounted for more than half of all new federal
prosecutions in the country, according to Justice Department data maintained at
Syracuse University.

As of October, the latest figures available, federal prosecutors had filed
nearly 300 such cases in the Northern California federal courts, which include
San Jose. Syracuse researchers projected that figure would reach nearly 400 by
the end of the year, more than double the number filed in 2005. The Bay Area
federal courts ranked 10th out of the country's 93 districts in such filings.

Spurred by the relentless surge of illegal immigration in border states such as
Texas and Arizona, where immigration prosecutions total in the thousands, the
federal government has concluded that simple deportation is no longer an
adequate response to repeat offenders with criminal records. Experts attribute
the steady rise in prosecutions to several factors, including an increase in
immigration and border patrol agents during the Bush administration, and greater
emphasis on prosecuting cases that are often easy to prove.

There is ample doubt that criminal enforcement can put much of a dent in the
nation's illegal immigration problems. And critics worry that many routine
immigration matters are being transformed into federal felony charges with
increasingly lengthy sentences. There is also concern about a disproportionate
impact on Mexican nationals. A Mercury News review of 52 immigration cases filed
in the San Jose federal courts between January and October found every defendant
was from Mexico.

"It's riding and walking while Hispanic," said Barry Portman, the Bay Area's
federal public defender, whose office typically represents immigrants too poor
to pay for their own lawyers.

Supporters of the tougher enforcement approach say the prosecutions are needed
to target illegal immigrants with criminal backgrounds who keep re-entering the
country. Indeed, the review of the San Jose cases shows these defendants are
often unsympathetic. They have typically been deported numerous times, and they
carry rap sheets that run the gamut from drug and robbery charges to domestic
violence.

In some instances, they have even been prosecuted before in federal court,
serving time for immigration crimes before being deported, only to return to the
United States. One San Jose defendant charged this year, Esequiel
Sandoval-Ramos, has been deported eight times and was convicted four separate
times in San Diego federal court on illegal re-entry charges before his most
recent arrest here, court records show.

Prosecutors say they must deter illegal immigration by those with criminal
records, which is driving up the numbers.

"Does it always work? Of course not," said Brian Stretch, chief of the criminal
division for the Bay Area U.S. attorney's office. "But it's important to keep
trying."

Advocates for tighter immigration enforcement say such prosecutions are overdue,
but they caution criminal charges are only part of dealing with the sprawling
immigration issue.

"We need to have these prosecutions, but they are not the silver bullet," said
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
advocates stricter measures such as curtailing the ability of illegal immigrants
to secure jobs here.

For defendants such as Gonzalez-Reyes, the aggressive prosecutions mean a long
prison stay before deportation. In October, a defense lawyer argued that
Gonzalez-Reyes' sentence should only be about a year because he had returned to
the U.S. this time to earn money for a prosthetic for a child who'd just lost a
leg in an accident.

But Gonzalez-Reyes' record was too disturbing for U.S. District Judge James
Ware, who sentenced the defendant to 37 months in prison. The question now, as
with the tens of thousands of cases being prosecuted in the federal courts, is
whether the system will see him again.

"It seems to me like we're putting a finger in the dike," said Kevin Johnson, a
University of California-Davis law professor and immigration expert. "These
prosecutions are more a gesture than a meaningful attempt to deal with the
immigration problem."

Contact Howard Mintz at 408-286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Meg Whitman holds forth on guns, gays and government

BYLINE: By Ken McLaughlin Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; Local

LENGTH: 1120 words


WALNUT CREEK   Gays and lesbians should be allowed to adopt, but not marry.
Illegal immigration is a huge problem, but immigrant children shouldn't be
punished for the sins of their parents. And California is a mess, but that
doesn't mean it's going to fail.

In her first major interview since kicking her campaign into high gear, Meg
Whitman, the front-runner for the Republican gubernatorial nomination, revealed
her views on issues ranging from the "right to carry" movement to offshore oil
drilling, Sarah Palin, the state budget and education reform.

Whitman, the former eBay chief, has been under attack by Democrats and her
Republican rival, state Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner, for avoiding
debates and California political reporters and for not being specific enough on
issues.

But in a fast-paced, 40-minute interview with the Mercury News, Whitman said
she's trying to "be as accessible as I can be" while giving political stump
speeches around the state.

And she was far more polished than she appeared in a February 2009 interview
with the Los Angeles Times, during which the political novice often seemed
unschooled in the issues of the day   such as school vouchers, a key Republican
issue.

In Wednesday night's interview, conducted after a speech to a Republican group
in Walnut Creek, Whitman came across as a quick study   politically savvy and
surprisingly comfortable in her own political skin. After months of speculation
about just where she falls on the ideological spectrum, she described herself as
an "extraordinary fiscal conservative" who is "moderate to conservative" on
social issues.

Much of her opponents' criticism against her has focused on how she would close
the state's $20 billion budget deficit   a gap so huge that Intelligence
Squared, a British organization that holds debates around the world, recently
declared California America's "first failed state."

Whitman has called for the elimination of 40,000 state jobs, which would bring
the number of jobs in California government to the same level as five years ago.
She says the reduction could be done through attrition over her first four-year
term.

But skeptics have pointed out that axing those jobs would save only $3.3
billion, leaving more than $16 billion to go.

Pressed for details on where else she would cut, Whitman said the state could
also save enormous sums by reducing the pensions of new employees; cutting fraud
in social programs such as Medi- Cal, welfare and In-Home Supportive Services;
and updating computer systems to reduce fraud and increase efficiency.

"I want to go after the bureaucracy," she said, adding that she will do a
top-down review of the growth of programs and their effectiveness. "We have to
do more with less," she said. "And the only way to do that is through
technology."

No doubt, her political opponents   and voters   will demand more detailed
answers and harder numbers during the campaign. Many fiscal experts say
politicians shouldn't be allowed to get away with saying they'll solve enormous
budget problems simply by reducing "waste, fraud and abuse."

Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a left-leaning
think tank, said Thursday that Whitman is in for a few surprises if she becomes
the next governor.

"Been there, done that," she said. "Generalities don't balance the budget."

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, she said, made many of the same suggestions when he
was running in the 2003 election that recalled Gov. Gray Davis. Most of the
"low-hanging fruit" has already been cut, Ross said.

Whitman, however, insisted she'll do better.

"I have a lot of respect for Arnold Schwarzenegger," she said. "He's done a
number of very good things," such as reforming workers' compensation and the way
legislative districts are drawn.

"But I think he has not done as much as he had hoped," she said, in part because
he had never run a large organization before taking office.

If elected, Whitman said, she would move to Sacramento   unlike Schwarzenegger
and get to know every senator and assembly member by name, letting them know
what she "will and will not put up with."

Whitman also said she would set a goal of adding 2 million private sector jobs
in California during her first term, largely by creating a business-friendly
atmosphere in which unnecessary regulations are jettisoned.

Asked to reconcile her stance against same-sex marriage with her willingness to
allow gays and lesbians to adopt children, Whitman said she believes the term
"marriage" should apply only to the union of a man and a woman. Still, she's in
favor of granting equal rights to gay people through civil unions and domestic
partnerships.

And she approves letting gays adopt because "many kids need a great home."

On illegal immigration, Whitman said she disagreed with her campaign chairman,
former Gov. Pete Wilson, over Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative that was
ruled unconstitutional.

She said it was wrong to write an initiative aimed "mostly at children" by
denying them health services and an education. "The children did not come here
on their own," she said.

But she said the state has to draw the line when it comes to many other
services. For example, she doesn't believe illegal immigrants should   as is
currently the law   be entitled to in-state tuition at California's public
colleges and universities.

Despite media reports that have painted the Golden State as a basket case,
Whitman expressed confidence that California can be restored to fiscal health
through Silicon Valley innovation and the state's famed can-do spirit.

"Our destiny is more in our hands than most people believe," she said.

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5552.

WHITMAN in her own words

OFFSHORE OIL DRILLING: "Historically" she"s been against it. But "if I can be
convinced the environmental risk is near zero" because of new technology, she
would favor it.
TAX RETURNS: Says she "might" release them, but not as a result of pressure from
the "union front" groups supporting Jerry Brown, the presumed Democratic
nominee.
"RIGHT TO CARRY" MOVEMENT: Says she doesn"t oppose the movement but understands
why restaurants and other businesses might want to ban people from openly
carrying guns.
SARAH PALIN: Says she did a "remarkable job" after being named John McCain"s
running mate " but Whitman dodged a question about whether Palin was qualified
to be president.
EDUCATION REFORM: Says she wants to give all California schools a letter grade
so parents will push to reform schools that are not up to standards. Would
increase the probation period for teachers from two to four years before they
can get tenure.
ON eBay: Most recent purchase was a fishing reel, bought two weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOP gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman makes a campaign stop at the
Rossmoor Republican Club in Walnut Creek, Calif., on Wednesday, Feb. 24, 2010.
(Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
GOP gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman makes a campaign stop at the Rossmoor
Republican Club in Walnut Creek, Calif., on Wednesday, Feb. 24, 2010 as she
makes time for a one on one interview following her appearance. (Susan Tripp
Pollard/Staff)
GOP gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman makes a campaign stop at the Rossmoor
Republican Club in Walnut Creek, Calif., on Wednesday, Feb. 24, 2010. The number
one thing Whitman says she wants to work on is jobs. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Meg Whitman 'wows away' Latino crowd at San Jose campaign talk

BYLINE: By Julia Prodis Sulek jsulek@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 604 words


Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman reached out to Latino business
leaders at a San Jose luncheon Thursday, promising to create jobs, improve
education and cut spending.

She didn't mention a touchier topic: immigration. But after her
question-and-answer session with the Greater San Jose Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce at a Santana Row restaurant, Whitman told the Mercury News she is "100
percent against amnesty," wants to crack down on employers who hire illegal
immigrants and will eliminate "sanctuary cities" such as San Francisco that
don't enforce federal immigration laws.

Still, Whitman said, she hopes her plans to improve education and the economy
will appeal to a Latino population that is struggling with low graduation rates
and higher joblessness and juvenile incarceration numbers.

With Latinos making up 1 in 5 California voters, the former eBay chief and
Atherton resident considers the Latino vote "extraordinarily important."

"We cannot have an economic recovery in California without the Latino community
involved," Whitman said.

It appears she made headway among those who listened to her Thursday.

"I've never, ever voted Republican, but I might," Marisa Escalera, a 30-year-old
account executive at Spanish language Univision radio, said after Whitman's
speech. "I was wowed away."

Katherinne  Garzon, a Campbell real estate agent, was so moved by Whitman's talk
that she signed up afterward to help build the "MEGaMujeres" division of the
Whitman campaign's "MEGaWomen" coalition. And Garzon is a registered Democrat.

She said she appreciates Whitman's stand on education, which also affects real
estate values, and she has friends who worked under Whitman at eBay and who
speak highly of her.

"She's a strong leader, and I can't help but admire that," said Garzon, 39.

Whitman, who has already spent millions of her own to launch her campaign, has a
wide lead over state Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner for the Republican
nomination in June. Poizner has worked to position himself as tougher on illegal
immigration than Whitman, though on Thursday, Hispanic Chamber CEO Carlos
Figueroa said his group was more interested in the state's economy.

"Immigration is very dear to us, but it's not a focus," Figueroa said.

Whitman, a New York native, arrived at the luncheon Thursday with her husband,
Stanford neurosurgeon Griff Harsh IV, who listened to her speech, then joined
her with friends afterward at an outdoor table.

In her speech to the business group, she touted her success at San Jose-based
eBay, which she joined as a startup, and said she understands the dynamics of
the small businesses that have sprung up because of the online auction house.

If she wins in November, she said, she will work to streamline regulations,
pointing by way of example to the 21/2 year bureaucratic process it took to
break ground on a new building for eBay subsidiary PayPal.

She said she also would work to eliminate certain business taxes, including the
factory tax on manufacturing equipment that she said played a part in driving
600,000 manufacturing jobs out of California.

"I will be the chief sales officer," she said. "We will keep jobs."

On the other hand, she reiterated a pledge to eliminate 40,000 state jobs
through attrition, returning California's public payroll to its size of five
years ago.

Whitman said she favors giving local school districts block grants they can
spend at their discretion and grading schools   A to F   on their performance.
And she wants to increase the number of charter schools to give parents options
if their school is failing, while paying "great teachers" more money.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA - MARCH 18: California Republican gubernatorial candidate
and former eBay CEO Meg Whitman speaks to the Greater San Jose Hispanic Chamber
of Commerce March 18, 2010 in San Jose, California. Whitman is currently
campaigning ahead of the California Republican primary for governor. (Photo by
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
SAN JOSE, CA - MARCH 18: California Republican gubernatorial candidate and
former eBay CEO Meg Whitman speaks to the Greater San Jose Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce March 18, 2010 in San Jose, California. Whitman is currently
campaigning ahead of the California Republican primary for governor. (Photo by
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
JOSE, CA - MARCH 18: California Republican gubernatorial candidate and former
eBay CEO Meg Whitman smiles as she speaks to the Greater San Jose Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce March 18, 2010 in San Jose, California. Whitman is currently
campaigning ahead of the California Republican primary for governor. (Photo by
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
SAN JOSE, CA - MARCH 18: California Republican gubernatorial candidate and
former eBay CEO Meg Whitman speaks to the Greater San Jose Hispanic Chamber of
Commerce March 18, 2010 in San Jose, California. Whitman is currently
campaigning ahead of the California Republican primary for governor. (Photo by
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

Saratoga history photo: Hatakeyama House

BYLINE: Saratoga News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 190 words


Photograph courtesy of the Saratoga Historical Foundation

Hatakeyama House

When the Chinese Exclusion Act restricted the immigration of Chinese laborers,
Japanese immigrants took their place as farm workers in Santa Clara Valley. One
such immigrant was Frank Hatakeyama, who came to California in 1904. After
working a few years as a hand at various ranches, he took over the Chinese
laundry in Saratoga. He lived with his wife and son in a nearby home on Big
Basin Way. After Pearl Harbor, the Hatakeyama family was split up. Frank and his
wife returned to Japan, where they were imprisoned for a time as American spies.
Their son, now a Stanford graduate, remained and was sent to an internment camp,
as were all Japanese on the West Coast. Eventually their home was taken over by
Bank of America and donated to the city. It was moved to Wildwood Park and
served as Saratoga's recreation and youth center for many years. Later, it was
again relocated to Big Basin Way where it is today's Echo Shop, a charity resale
store.

Volunteer Katie Alexander submitted this information. Visit the Saratoga
Historical Foundation at www.saratogahistory.com .

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

May 4 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 737 words


What's so racist about showing ID?

1. I write a check to purchase some groceries, and am asked to show my drivers
license.

2. I am hired for a new job, and am asked to show my social security card.

3. I pay a visit to my doctor, and am asked to show my insurance card.

4. I am about to board a plane to go overseas, and am asked to show my passport.

5. I am asked to 'mail in my papers,' by an agent of the census bureau.

But now it is akin to Nazism and racism if I am asked to 'show my papers' after
committing some kind of infraction in the state of Arizona in compliance with
existing laws?

Mike Korn

San Jose

Immigrants should bring net worth

We are the land of equal opportunity. Nobody disputes that. We are not, however,
the land of the free lunch.

Australia has a good immigration policy; you must bring net worth with you to
immigrate.

That is what we should demand. I call on the federal government to do its job.

This is not racist, this is not anti-diversity; this is merely saying you have
to have a legal right to immigrate.

To be a proud American means we operate under the rule of law and we do the
"right thing" with ourselves in behavior as well as in contribution to our
society. Stop the free lunch.

Christopher Parkinson

Mountain View

Fast-food toy ban worth the effort

Stating that the "fast food ban won't stop kids from eating fast food," Steve
Hares (Letters, May 1) seems to believe that toys distributed at fast-food
restaurants have not become an effective marketing scheme aimed at children. If
so, why have toys remained a part of fast-food chains since the 1980s?

I agree with Christine Salib's comment (Letters, May 1) that kids should not be
rewarded for food that seems fun, only creating bad eating habits.

Kids may not always want the toys, but toys do get them thinking about fast
food.

The fast-food toy ban is yet another testament to California's role as a
proactive national leader. This ban should inspire surrounding counties to
follow suit.

There is no formula that will reduce fast food consumption by children. We must
try that which might work, until something does. Do not blame the county
supervisors for their hard work until you understand their valuable
contributions.

Pierre Gerard

Morgan Hill

Parents should be responsible on diet

The many letters supporting Santa Clara County's ban on toys in kids' meals are
enlightening.

I hadn't realized that so many people believe they are too irresponsible to
refrain from feeding their children a steady diet of fast food when faced with
the overwhelming temptation of a little plastic toy.

Of course, I assume these folks aren't so arrogant and condescending to believe
that, while they can make responsible choices, government must dictate what
"other people" can choose to buy, right?

Joe Greco

Los Altos

Get rid of every incumbent

The article regarding earmarks (Page 1A, May 3) illustrates the ongoing problem
in Congress that, according to the article, recently increased tenfold. Rep. Zoe
Lofgren prefers we evaluate the "nobleness" of her earmarks while ignoring the
real problem. And that is, earmarks/pork are methods politicians use to buy
support, among themselves, for larger, more disgusting legislation that would
otherwise never pass.

We need to say enough is enough to experienced politicians. Folks, the only way
we are going to correct this mess is to vote all incumbents out of office in
November. It is time for honesty and integrity in our government.

Dwight G. Black

San Jose

Where are experts on Gulf oil spill?

The approach of the Obama administration to the explosion of an oil rig in the
Gulf is curious. After eight days the president and his assistants addressed the
problem by sending several cabinet members, the head of NOAA and an assemblage
of lawyers to New Orleans. None of these people, however, appear to have any
expertise in mitigating the effects of oil spillage or its control. The head of
the one agency with such competence, the commandant of the Coast Guard, appears
absent. In the case of the Exxon Valdez, the Coast Guard was on the job
immediately. Moreover, there has been no reported effort to determine the cause
of the explosion. Crude oil does not explode; indeed it is difficult to even
ignite it. The cause of the explosion and mitigation/control of the spillage
would seem to be top priority, neither of which can be aided by lawyers.

Robert C. Whitten

National Director Emeritus Navy League of the U.S. Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Morgan Hill: Teen athletes entangled in debate over U.S. flag clothing

BYLINE: By Lisa Fernandez and Bruce Newman Mercury News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; Education; News; Local

LENGTH: 1023 words


Four students exposed raw feelings about race and immigration in a Morgan Hill
high school this week when they made the provocative choice to wear shirts and
shorts bearing the stars and stripes of the American flag to school on Cinco de
Mayo.

Now their actions   which an assistant principal at Live Oak High School labeled
"incendiary"   are spilling across the small town's borders, igniting a national
debate on cable television's 24-hour talkfest.

Wednesday, as the school's Latino pupils   nearly 40 percent of the Live Oak
student body   were celebrating the Mexican army's victory against France in
1862, many wearing Mexico's colors of red, white and green, the boys showed up
dressed in the American flag. Assistant Principal Miguel Rodriguez told them to
wear the clothes inside out or go home. At least two of the boys left campus
because they found the other option to be "disrespectful" to the flag, and the
others remained in school without changing, their parents said.

Rodriguez could not be reached for comment   the school referred all calls to
the district office   but parents said he indicated to them that he was
concerned about the boys' safety. The Morgan Hill Unified School District later
said what happened was "extremely unfortunate" and that there is no ban on
"patriotic" clothing. The new immigration law in Arizona, giving police broad
power to detain anyone suspected of being in the United States illegally, formed
the backdrop for the school drama.

"We're happy about Arizona's law, and you bet we're fired up," said Julie
Fagerstrom, whose son, Dominic Maciel, wore one of the shirts. Dominic's father,
who is no longer in his son's life, Fagerstrom said, is a first-generation
Mexican-American.

But the boys' action riled a number of the those who had celebrated Cinco de
Mayo.

By Thursday morning, Mexican-American students began texting each other in
class, and soon as many as 100 of them were standing in front of the school. A
few minutes later they were marching down the road to Morgan Hill's city hall.
"When we were marching, they would pass in their trucks and were flipping us
off," said Gerardo Cabralas, a junior, referring to some non-Latino classmates.
"And to be honest, sometimes we flipped them back."

A group of about a dozen Latino students expressed their dismay Thursday
directly to the school's white students   particularly the boys who wore the
flag clothing. "We respect them on Fourth of July," said sophomore Biana Coreas.
"We don't go with our Mexican flags waving it up that day, so why can't they
respect us too?"

The struggle for respect went on most of the day Thursday, and no one was
certain when it would end.

"School was pretty crazy today," Dominic told the Mercury News. "I don't think
I'm a villain; I was just representing my country. But I don't know if I would
do this again. People took our message the wrong way. We weren't trying to start
anything at all."

He said he can't remember whose idea it was to wear the garb and when the
decision was made. Another boy   Matthew Dariano   also has some Mexican
heritage, Fagerstrom said. The other two, Daniel Galli and Austin Carvalho, do
not. "These are really great kids," Fagerstrom said. "They wear American flag
clothes all the time. For the Fourth of July, for Memorial Day. They want to
show their patriotism."

Diana Dariano, whose son Matthew wore a U.S. Constitution T-shirt, acknowledged
that the friends wore the clothes to make a point: They love their country and
believe in legal immigration.

"They heard that the Mexican kids were going to wear their colors so they wanted
to wear the colors of the American flag," she said. "You can never tell someone
in this country not to wear the American flag. It's America!"

Just as the school's administrators declined to punish the flag wearers, the
Latino students said they had not suffered any disciplinary consequences for
their march.

One free-speech expert said the boys should have been able to wear their
country's colors to school.

"In the 1960s, students expressed themselves by desecrating the flag," said
Peter Scheer, executive director with the First Amendment Coalition in San
Rafael. "Flash 50 years ahead and the students are now demonstrating with the
flag to show their patriotism. The same laws that protected the burning of the
flag also protect wearing it."

That wasn't the only symbolic protest on Cinco de Mayo. About 20 students showed
up at Pioneer High School wearing "Border Patrol" T-shirts. By the end of the
day, administrators asked them to remove the shirts, which they apparently did
with no problems, according to Karen Fuqua, spokeswoman for the San Jose Unified
School District.

But Scheer, while defending the rights of the boys, also said there are times
when a school principal can regulate students' dress.

"If the principal believes there will be a riot, then he can ban the shirts,"
Scheer said. "But if he thinks students are just going to be angry, it's not
good enough."

Fagerstrom said the parents met with an assistant superintendent Wednesday
evening who wanted to hear all the sides. At an earlier meeting, Principal Nick
Boden and Rodriguez indicated to her that they were worried about the safety of
the American-flag boys. "They said they heard from some students there was going
to be some drama," Fagerstrom said.

District Superintendent Wesley Smith issued a statement Thursday: "The Morgan
Hill Unified School District does not prohibit nor do we discourage wearing
patriotic clothing. The incident on May 5 at Live Oak High School is extremely
unfortunate. While campus safety is our primary concern and administrators made
decisions yesterday in an attempt to ensure campus safety, students should not,
and will not, be disciplined for wearing patriotic clothing. This matter is
under investigation and appropriate action will be taken."

Meanwhile, the school's junior-senior prom is Saturday. "I'm kind of nervous
about it," said senior Marina Schlaefli. "I'd rather this whole thing had never
happened. It's making our school look bad, and it's not a bad school."

Contact Lisa Fernandez atlfernandez@mercurynews.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: From left to right: Daniel Galli, Austin Carvalho, Matthew
Dariano and Dominic Maciel. These boys with friend Clayton Howard were asked to
turn their American flag T-shirts inside out or go home when they wore them to
Live Oak High School in Morgan Hill on Cinco de Mayo. (Julie Fagerstrom )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Opinion: Kids shouldn't be thrust into immigration conflict

BYLINE: By Toby Lieberman Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 513 words


On Cinco de Mayo, four students at Live Oak High School in Morgan Hill came to
school wearing American flag attire that touched off a very emotional discussion
about respect for others, the First Amendment and appropriate expression in the
schools.

During a time of heightened sensitivity about immigration, it is not surprising
that the initial act and the events that followed have catapulted this incident
in a small town in Northern California into the national spotlight. And it is
not an accident that this incident occurred as the country has become embroiled
in heated arguments over immigration in the wake of the new immigration law
passed in Arizona.

As the mother of a mixed-race 14-year-old, I find it profoundly disturbing that
parents would permit their children to antagonize their classmates by intimating
that the celebration of Mexican heritage makes Mexican-Americans "less"
American. Children should not be thrust into the midst of an extremely volatile
and polarizing debate. It is disrespectful, and someone could get hurt.

Maybe we need to be reminded that most of what is now the state of California
was actually a part of Mexico before westward expansion in the late 1800s. Many
Latinos who live in California are second- and third-generation Americans or
more.

In California and across the United States, it is common for people to think
that Cinco de Mayo is the celebration of Mexican independence. It is not. Cinco
de Mayo is a much more obscure celebration of the Mexican army's victory over
the French in Puebla, Mexico, in 1862. Cinco de Mayo is celebrated in Puebla but
is not of great significance anywhere else in Mexico. However, it is widely
celebrated in the United States and around the world to recognize Mexican
heritage.

According to an April 2009 report by the California Department of Finance, as of
2007, 37 percent of California's population was Hispanic, while a little more
than 41 percent was white. Asians were about 12 percent.

On Chinese New Year, we enjoy the parades and the pageantry as people of Chinese
decent celebrate their heritage. Imagine if a non-Asian child who attends school
with Chinese children were to arrive at school on Chinese New Year with the
American flag prominently featured on their clothing. Wouldn't we question the
timing and the motive for this?

Some have said that these children were simply expressing their patriotism and
invoking their right to free speech. That may be true. But context is
everything, and in choosing this day to advertise their patriotism, they implied
that their Latino classmates were somehow not patriotic.

We don't know the role of the four boys' parents in this, but it is probable
that they were either encouraging their children to promote their ideology in
this way or, at a minimum, did not consider the consequences of the boys'
actions. Parents should think twice before turning secondary schools into
ideological battlegrounds.

TOBY LIEBERMAN is director of the affordable housing loan program at the
Opportunity Fund in San Jose. She wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 24, 2010 Monday

Forget Arizona   California must confront its own race issue

BYLINE: By nick luther

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 695 words


Almost every major newspaper in California has published editorials regarding
Arizona's new highly controversial immigration law, criticizing everything from
its encouragement of racial profiling to its unconstitutionality in terms of our
nation's 14th Amendment. While I wasn't at all surprised at this large amount of
coverage, I was surprised by the fact that none of these articles addressed the
racial tensions in our state   especially in light of the eye-opening incidents
that took place at two Bay Area high schools on Cinco de Mayo. It seems we
Californians are so busy critiquing the problems of other states such as Arizona
that we are overlooking the racial tension between Mexican immigrants and
non-immigrants present in our own backyards.

First, the evidence. On Cinco de Mayo, a nationwide celebration of Mexican
heritage and pride, 15 students at Pioneer High School in San Jose attended
school wearing T-shirts with the title "Border Patrol" written across their
chests, an obvious allusion to the U.S. Border Patrol, which ensures that
Mexican immigrants do not enter this country illegally. At the end of the day,
the school administration told the students they must remove these shirts, which
they did. This was not the only incident, however. On that same day, four
students at Live Oak High School in Morgan Hill were sent home halfway through
the school day after refusing to remove their shirts, jackets and shorts bearing
the stars and stripes of the American flag.

Not that controversial, right? Wrong. According to Pioneer High's school
profile, available online, approximately 30 percent of the student population is
Hispanic while, according to the San Jose Mercury News, approximately 40 percent
of Live Oak High's student population is Hispanic. And to say that Live Oak's
Hispanic student body was offended is an understatement. In fact, 100
Mexican-American students marched toward Morgan Hill's City Hall on Thursday
morning, the morning after the incident occurred. Pioneer was fortunately spared
a similar uprising due to an apology issued by the students who wore the "Border
Patrol" T-shirts.

The motives of the students at these two high schools can be viewed from two
very opposite perspectives. One might argue that these students were simply
exercising their freedom of speech as American citizens and displaying their
American pride. On the other hand, their actions could also be seen as offensive
and disrespectful, with the intent to alienate Hispanic students. Regardless of
opinion, it is enough that these students demonstrated complete disregard for
their Hispanic classmates to deem them guilty and their actions inappropriate.

There is a very fine line between patriotism and bigotry. The students at Live
Oak and Pioneer have proven through their bold yet inappropriate actions that
many of today's teenagers   the "leaders of tomorrow," as it has been said   are
not afraid to tread this line or even cross it when they feel strongly about a
particular issue. And when this particular issue is our country's immigration
policy, there is the ever-present risk of offending not just a group of people
but an entire race. This applies not exclusively to rebellious teenagers but to
California citizens and non-citizens as a whole. Patriotism encompasses the idea
of national pride as well as all the American ideals of open-mindedness,
acceptance and respect for others. By displaying the opposite of these three
fundamental ideals, the "patriotic" students have actually proven themselves to
be just the opposite. In fact, they may have a thing or two to learn from their
Hispanic classmates, one of whom was quoted in the Mercury News as saying, "We
respect them on Fourth of July ... so why can't they respect us too?"

While it is disappointing and, to a degree, disheartening to witness such
hateful actions from such seemingly innocent high school students, the Cinco de
Mayo occurrences should serve as a wake-up call to an otherwise presumptuous
California. Arizona may have made the wrong move with its new legislation, but
at least it's confronting the issue.

Nicholas Luther is a junior at Mountain View High School.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

Opinion: Public generally less anti-immigrant than Arizona law suggests

BYLINE: By Gilbert Cedillo Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 565 words


Immigrant Day was acknowledged at the State Capitol last month, and though our
agenda aimed to protect and help integrate immigrants into California, the word
on my mind was "Arizona."

The now-infamous Arizona law, which many feel institutionalizes discrimination,
passed just weeks earlier. It has sparked many protests and counter-protests,
and seems to have only further polarized an already contentious arena of debate
that now lands everyone in one of two camps: pro-immigrant or anti-immigrant.

At least that's the picture of the country we are shown on TV news, with dueling
rallies, angry flag-waving crowds and people shouting. It's the high drama of
what we are told is a divisive issue, a possibly irreconcilable controversy. But
as always, reality is more nuanced.

I believe it is this: While the immigration debate rages on TV screens and via
public opinion polls, a strong majority agrees on the fundamentals of a solution
and perhaps not surprisingly, that solution is practical and moderate, having
nothing to do with either amnesty or mass deportation.

A recent New York Times poll bears this out. On the question of whether recent
immigrants to the United States contribute to the country or harm it, the public
is fairly evenly split   with 49 percent responding "contribute" and 31 percent
"harm." But on the question of how to solve the immigration puzzle, a resounding
two-thirds of the country agrees on the basic premise that illegal immigrants
already working in the country should be allowed to seek legal status and stay
working.

These results suggest that the country may not need to agree on a definition of
a problem in order to agree on the solution.

As strong advocates for immigrants in California, we have long argued that
immigrants contribute to our state in ways that are substantial and far
reaching. In fact, some of us argue that our future economic viability depends
on how we treat immigrants, since they make up a third of our work force,
contribute some $30 billion each year in federal taxes and will soon count for a
third of potential voters in California if you consider naturalized immigrants
and their adult citizen children.

Entrenched prejudices against recent immigrants, especially those who have no
viable way to obtain lawful status, can render these arguments ineffective as a
rationale for moving forward. This state of permanent inaction is hurting
California. It is getting in the way of our best thinking about the future of
our state, because as we know from our past and our present, immigrants help to
build what together we envision.

Our task is to consolidate our support for solutions, including a clear path to
legalization for those unauthorized immigrants who are currently in the country.
We must use our strength as one of the largest and most vibrant states in the
country to move us all forward.

So, by Immigrant Day 2011 we must be living in a post-Arizona era, when we have
achieved comprehensive reform of the immigration system and are finding ways to
promote our state's workforce, encourage our population to engage actively in
their communities, vote, and participate in our economy. This way and only this
way will we move forward together as Californians and fully value the
contributions immigrants make to our great state.

GILBERT CEDILLO, D-Los Angeles, is a state senator. He wrote this article for
this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Texas GOP inexplicably joins anti-immigrant crowd

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 685 words


Parents, you know how it is with kids. One acts up, and so you have to focus
your attention on the troublemaker and take your eye off the others. Then, when
you're not looking, another one gets out of line.

States are much the same way. The eyes of the nation are fixed on Arizona, the
undisputed problem child in the nation's immigration debate. But there are other
states where lawmakers are eager to follow Arizona's lead and blame Washington
for not solving a problem that, in truth, their own citizens (i.e., employers)
helped create.

At least a half-dozen of the states thinking about going on this suicide run can
perhaps be forgiven their ignorance because the experience of having a sizable
illegal immigrant population is still new to them. In Utah, Georgia, Ohio,
Maryland, Oklahoma and South Carolina, illegal immigrants are still a rather
exotic import.

But then there's Texas, which used to be part of Mexico and where lenient
immigration policies toward white settlers from the South and Northeast led to a
famous tenant dispute that included a dust-up at the Alamo in 1836. In Tejas,
Latinos are indigenous and as ubiquitous as bluebonnets. In the Lone Star State,
where my mother and grandparents and great-grandparents were born and raised and
where I spent five years writing about immigration and other issues for the
Dallas Morning News, legislators should know better than to even flirt with the
idea of adopting a divisive and dangerous law like the one in Arizona.

This was true even before U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton, in defense of the
Constitution, ripped the guts out of the Arizona law by striking down its most
egregious and indefensible parts. Bolton had her pick of seven different
lawsuits seeking to block the law's implementation, and she based her ruling on
the lawsuit filed by the Obama administration. The Justice Department argued
that Arizona had exceeded its authority and trampled on powers reserved for the
federal government.

Bolton agreed. She was particularly bothered by those elements of the law that
all but required racial profiling by forcing police to arrest people they
suspect are in the country illegally, made it a state crime for the undocumented
to seek work, required legal immigrants to carry papers proving legal status,
and allowed police to detain and arrest people who could not prove their legal
status. So the judge issued a preliminary injunction against those parts. The
rest of the law   which did things such as making it a state crime to transport
illegal immigrants   was allowed to go into effect.

So much for Gov. Jan Brewer's bravado in telling the federal government that
Arizona would "meet you in court." This battle is far from over, and the issue
is probably headed to the Supreme Court. But so far, it's Common Sense 1,
Arizona 0.

But, like the saying goes, common sense isn't always common   even in Texas.
State Rep. Leo Berman, a Republican, is drafting an Arizona-style bill for Texas
and plans to introduce it in the next session. He is bolstered by a recent
Rasmussen survey that found 69 percent of Texans support bringing the law to
their state.

Adding more fuel to the bonfire, Texas Republicans recently adopted an
over-the-top platform at their state convention that, among other things,
encouraged the Legislature to create a Class A misdemeanor criminal offense "for
an illegal alien to intentionally or knowingly be within the state of Texas,"
and to "oppose amnesty in any form." Texas Republicans also want to deny
citizenship to the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants, ban day-labor work
centers, limit bilingual education to three years and deny non-U.S. citizens
access to state or federal financial assistance to college.

In a state where, according to demographic estimates, Latinos could outnumber
whites by 2015, what the Texas GOP drafted was a pact with the devil.

All of which leads me to ask my friends in the Lone Star State the same question
my mom used to ask me growing up: "If all the other kids jumped off a cliff,
would you do the same?"

Apparently so.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday

Arizona immigration clash headed for controversial appeals court

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: CRIME; News; National

LENGTH: 1101 words


The epic legal struggle over Arizona's immigration crackdown has landed in a San
Francisco-based federal appeals court that is all too familiar with being the
center of the nation's attention -- and its inevitable label as the nation's
most liberal court

From once striking down the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools to
overturning death sentences with regularity, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals has long been a favored

But as the Arizona case reaches its marbled doorstep, having inflamed the
national debate over illegal immigration, the 9th Circuit is not so easy to
stereotype. While still considered more liberal than most appeals courts, this
is not former President Jimmy Carter's 9th Circuit. The appeal of last week's
decision by an Arizona judge blocking the most controversial provisions of
Arizona's immigration law is just as likely to be decided in the coming months
by the 9th Circuit's moderate to conservative judges as by its liberal wing.

"It's changed radically," said Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis law school
and a clerk during the 1980s for 9th Circuit Judge Stephen Reinhardt, the
so-called "liberal lion" of the federal judiciary. "It's a much more
conservative court. You've had eight years of President (George W.) Bush
nominating people, and he didn't nominate any liberals."

The 79-year-old Reinhardt, who has insisted for years that even former President
Bill Clinton's appointees were not liberal enough, bristles at the fact the 9th
Circuit remains tethered to its reputation as a liberal court.

"With the 9th Circuit, people get ideas," Reinhardt said. "It clearly is not a
liberal court. It clearly is a moderate to conservative court."

Of course, not everyone agrees, and the 9th Circuit is still dominated by
appointees of Democratic presidents, particularly Clinton. Even with an infusion
of seven Bush picks, Republican appointees make up just 10 of the court's 25
full-time judges, with four vacancies available for the Obama administration to
fill. (The White House has nominated Berkeley law professor Goodwin Liu and
Arizona federal Judge Mary Murguia to fill two of those, and Republicans have
targeted Liu as a potential liberal.)

The court shapes the law for nine western states, including California, and has
had a hand in deciding a host of crucial cases over the years, from California's
recall election and a challenge to Proposition 209, to blocking executions and,
of course, its infamous 2002 ruling barring the pledge in schools because it
contains the phrase "under God," a ruling later set aside by the Supreme Court.
The 9th Circuit, at some point, also will inherit the challenge to California's
same-sex marriage ban.

Is it still liberal? 9th Circuit Judge Carlos Bea, a Bush appointee, believes
so, saying overall it is "predictably more liberal in its decisions" than most
other federal appeals courts. Arthur Hellman, a University of Pittsburgh law
professor and 9th Circuit expert, says that challengers to the Arizona
immigration law would surely prefer to be in the 9th Circuit than anywhere else.

"The odds are better in the 9th Circuit than any other circuit," Hellman said.
"It is still a court that is more liberal overall than most, if not all, of the
other federal circuits."

But legal experts and the judges themselves also say the 9th Circuit is more
unpredictable than ever. While some of the Clinton appointees are decidedly
liberal, most are considered centrist and a few quite conservative, such as
Washington state's Richard Tallman.

One 9th Circuit Clinton appointee said the Bush judges have nudged the 9th
Circuit to the center but, as Bea puts it, "not all of them vote in lock-step."
It was a Bush appointee, Consuelo Callahan, who wrote a ruling last year
invalidating California's violent video game law, an arguably conservative cause
now before the Supreme Court.

On immigration issues, the 9th Circuit is generally in the corner of immigrant
rights, particularly in asylum cases. The court has frowned on immigration
restrictions that go too far, in 2000 ruling it illegal for the U.S. Border
Patrol to consider "Hispanic appearance" in making an immigration stop.

But in 2008, the 9th Circuit upheld another Arizona immigration law that revokes
the business licenses of employers who hire illegal immigrants. That decision,
written by Carter appointee Mary Schroeder, is being heard in the Supreme
Court's next term, a case some legal experts say will provide precedent for the
broader Arizona immigration legal fight now unfolding in the 9th Circuit.

In fact, the 9th Circuit, which for years has been ridiculed as the appeals
court most overturned by the Supreme Court, fared far better during the last
term. Some 9th Circuit judges don't put much stock in that development, but
others see it as evidence the 9th Circuit is no longer as much of a legal
renegade.

"I'm pretty happy with the balance of the court," said Chief Judge Alex
Kozinski, one of the court's few remaining Reagan appointees. "If you lined up
the conservatives and the liberals, you'd say it's pretty close. A number of
people, you just can't peg them."

In the 9th Circuit, a case such as the challenge to Arizona's immigration law in
the end may depend on the luck of the draw -- with so many judges, the random
makeup of a three-judge panel that will hear the case first can be crucial. This
is also true when the court votes to rehear a case with an 11-judge panel, a
frequent development in hotly contested matters. An 11-judge panel last year
heard a challenge to Alameda County's ban on gun shows, and it was an eclectic
mix of Republican and Democratic appointees.

Legal experts say that may well be the type of 9th Circuit panel that considers
Arizona's law and whether to uphold a Phoenix judge's preliminary injunction
preventing much of it from going into effect.

"This is the quintessential case where it's a close legal issue, and it's one of
those cases where the outcome on appeal will ultimately depend on the makeup of
the panel," Hellman said.

Contact Howard Mintz at 408-286-0236.

9TH CIRCUIT"S MAKEUP

The nation"s largest federal appeals court, while widely considered moving more
toward the center in recent years, remains a majority of Democratic appointees
and largely dominated by appointees of former President Bill Clinton.
Democratic
appointees: 15
Republican
appointees: 10
*Vacancies: 4

President Carter: 3
President Reagan: 2
President George
H.W. Bush: 1
President Clinton: 12
President George
W. Bush: 7

*President Barack Obama has two nominees pending in the Senate
Source: 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, Mercury News research

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An illegal immigrant is processed by Sheriff's Deputies working for
Maricopa County sheriff Joe Arpaio, after an operational sweep in Phoenix on
July 29, 2010. Protestors and police in riot gear clashed in several downtown
locations with demonstrations against a new Arizona immigration law just hours
after it went into effect. Demonstrators angrily denounced the law, even though
a judge has temporarily stripped it of key powers allowing police to spot check
the immigration status of all suspects. Civil rights groups were urging state
schools, town and city governments and local police departments not to comply
with the law, and began a march from a church to the courthouse and the offices
of tough county sheriff Joe Arpaio. AFP PHOTO/Mark RALSTON (Photo credit should
read MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty Images)(Photo Credit should Read /AFP/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Look who's doing the dirty work for Americans

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 617 words


SAN DIEGO -- Just in time for Labor Day, a reader critical of my views on
immigration sends along some career advice:

"You really need to find another line of work," he wrote. "You are not worth a
(expletive) at what you are doing now. I hear they need strawberry pickers."

He signed the note, "A white legal American citizen."

It's interesting that the reader felt it necessary to identify himself as white.
I plan to keep this letter -- and others like it -- handy for the next time
someone claims that the immigration debate isn't about race. It sure sounds like
it is to Mr. "white legal American citizen."

Yet what was really troubling was when the reader suggested I go out and pick
strawberries. This guy owes an apology -- to strawberry pickers.

He thinks he's insulting me, but he's really insulting agricultural workers. I
don't know whether a farmworker could do my job. But, coming from a family of
farmworkers, I'm absolutely sure I could never do his.

When President George W. Bush used to say that Mexican immigrants did "jobs
Americans won't do," a lot of his countrymen got their pride hurt and insisted
that this wasn't true.

Nonsense. Of course it is. Bush was right. The U.S. economy is full of
dangerous, dirty or distasteful jobs that Americans have outgrown. These are the
jobs that grandma and grandpa did -- tarring roofs, milking cows, cleaning horse
stalls, picking apples, shelling crabs, etc.

But were they to attempt any of it, most members of Generation Y wouldn't last
an hour. As a member of Generation X, I'm part of a heartier crew. So I can say
that, in my case, I wouldn't last 90 minutes.

Thus, when someone tells me to pick strawberries, I feel like that person might
as well have told me to become an astronaut and fly to the moon. Anyone who
thinks it's easy picking enough strawberries to support a family has obviously
never picked strawberries -- or, for that matter, anything else.

I remember seeing an interview with a strawberry farmer who said that, in 25
years of growing the crop, he had never had a single U.S. citizen approach him
for a job working in his fields.

It's just as well. What we often forget is there is an art form to this kind of
work. There are people, like my grandparents, who resembled machines as they
methodically plowed through those fields. They worked hard, but they also worked
smart and learned tricks along the way to become more efficient.

Farmworkers have a simple way of inspiring their children to stay in school.
It's called take your kids to work day. It did the trick for my parents, who
toiled in the fields alongside their siblings in 100-degree temperatures and
dreamed of one day simply working in an air-conditioned office.

An uncle told me a story about how, when he was a teenager, he worked his heart
out in the fields. At day's end, my grandfather told him that he had better hit
the books because, if he had to survive out there, he wouldn't last long. About
40 years later, my uncle's son -- who had a chiseled physique, spent many hours
in the gym and once tried out for a professional football team -- ventured into
the fields to see what it was like. As my cousin tells it, he couldn't keep up
with the Mexican workers and, after a while, was just trying not to pass out.

We should remember stories like these when we hear politicians talk about
whether U.S. immigration policy should be to let in the "skilled" or
"unskilled." Americans tend to think that skilled means educated and trained.
But what it really means is having the ability to do something that someone else
can't or won't do.

Such a skill is worthy of respect. On Labor Day, let's acknowledge this truth.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

Roundup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Washington

Boxer aide accused of pot possession: An aide to Democratic Sen. Barbara Boxer
has been arrested on charges that he brought marijuana into a Senate office
building.

The office of the California Democrat said Wednesday that 43-year-old Marcus
Stanley has resigned as an economics adviser to Boxer.

A summary report provided by the U.S. Capitol Police states that an officer saw
a man enter a Senate building Tuesday and remove from his pocket a green leafy
substance that later tested positive for the chemical compound in marijuana.

Capitol Police Sgt. Kimberly Schneider confirmed that police arrested Stanley.

A spokesman for Boxer said the senator accepted Stanley's resignation because
his actions, in the spokesman's words, "were wrong and unacceptable."

-- Associated Press

Riverside

immigrants rescued from house: Immigration authorities rescued more than three
dozen immigrants who were locked inside a boarded-up bedroom in a Southern
California drop house.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Wednesday that some of the 37
immigrants from six Latin American countries had been held for weeks in the
10-by-10-foot room in Riverside and had gone several days without food.

The immigrants, mostly men, had been stripped of their shoes and were found
lying on the floor. Three children under 3 years old were also found inside the
sweltering room, said Debra Parker, assistant special agent in charge for ICE
Homeland Security Investigations in Riverside.

Authorities also found seven other immigrants who were being smuggled across the
Los Angeles area through the same network. The 44 immigrants, who are currently
in ICE custody, are from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Ecuador and
the Dominican Republic.

Officials have arrested six suspected illegal immigrants for investigation of
the drop house, Parker said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday

Mercury News editorial: Dream Act should transcend immigration debate

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 514 words


Talking with the honors students at National Hispanic University can break your
heart.

Many graduates of the private San Jose college can go on to careers as
programmers or engineers in Silicon Valley industry, where educated workers soon
are expected to be in short supply.

But others with valuable skills will have to go looking for work at burger
joints or janitorial services, letting their degrees and knowledge go to waste.
These young people have managed to achieve academic success despite the stigma
of being, in the anti-immigrant parlance they despise, "illegals" -- brought
here by their parents, sometimes as infants, without documentation. Without
green cards, they have no hope of working for Intel or Adobe, or of getting a
scholarship to a University of California graduate school -- let alone gaining
citizenship.

This combination of individual tragedy and work force need is the reason for the
Dream Act, which U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid plans to bring back for
a vote as soon as next week, with the support of President Barack Obama. For the
sake of our economy, if not for our sense of decency, it should become law.

The Dream Act essentially carves out an exception in immigration law so that the
U.S. can benefit from young people who succeed in our public schools and have
the desire, ability and academic record to go to college, or who wish to serve
in the U.S. armed forces. Legislation would open up state colleges and financial
aid for those who qualify and would allow these highly motivated young people to
earn citizenship.

The high school dropout rate in this country terrifies business leaders, who
fear that in the coming decades we will not produce enough college graduates
with math and science ability to fill knowledge-based jobs. This is why the
Silicon Valley Leadership Group supports the Dream Act.

But it's not just for the tech work force. What great teachers young adults with
these experiences could become in disadvantaged neighborhoods, for example.

This is a difficult time to move any kind of immigration reform. The public
sentiment seems to be: Send everyone home. But the kids we're talking about may
not even remember their homelands. They see themselves as Americans.

We believe some path to citizenship should exist for adult undocumented
immigrants who have become part of the fabric of our communities and who
contribute to our economy. Deporting the estimated 11 million undocumented
residents just isn't practical. But we understand the concern that allowing them
to stay could provide others with an incentive to follow, if it's not combined
with better border security.

The Dream Act sidesteps that debate. It's not fair to apply adult rules to young
people who had no part in the decision to migrate and who have worked hard to
succeed, in the tradition of America. These kids deserve a chance, and the U.S.
economy needs their knowledge and ability. While we struggle to deal with kids
who don't want to be in school, shouldn't we be celebrating those who work hard
for an education and aspire to a professional career?

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 27, 2010 Monday

Citizens not exactly eager for farm jobs

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1100 words


VISALIA -- It's a question rekindled by the recession: Are immigrants taking
jobs away from American citizens? In the heart of the nation's biggest farming
state, the answer is a resounding no.

Government data analyzed by The Associated Press show most Americans simply
don't apply to harvest fruits and vegetables. And the few Americans who do
usually don't stay in the fields.

"It's just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and
move here to do," said farmer Steve Fortin, who pays $10.25 an hour to foreign
workers to trim strawberry plants at his nursery near the Nevada border.

The AP analysis showed that, from January to June, California farmers posted ads
for 1,160 farmworker positions open to U.S. citizens and legal residents. But
only 233 people in those categories applied after learning of the jobs through
unemployment offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona.

One grower brought on 36. No one else hired any.

"It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,"
said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department's
agricultural services unit. "If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they
might change their mind."

Sometimes, U.S. workers also will turn down the jobs because they don't want
their unemployment insurance claims to be affected, or because farm labor
positions do not begin for several months, and applicants prefer to be hired
immediately, Ruelas said.

Fortin spent $3,000 this year to make sure that domestic workers have first dibs
on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state, advertising in
newspapers and on an electronic job registry.

But he did not get any takers, even though he followed the requirements of a
little-known, little-used program to bring in foreign farmworkers the legal way
-- by applying for guest worker visas.

The California figures represent only a small part of the national effort to
recruit domestic workers under the H-2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a
snapshot of how hard it is to to get growers to use the program -- and to
attract Americans to farm labor, even in the San Joaquin Valley, where the
average unemployment rate is 15.8 percent.

The majority of farmers rely on illegal labor to harvest their crops, but they
can also use the little-known H-2A visa to hire guest workers, as long as they
request the workers months in advance of the harvest season and can show that no
Americans want the job.

Of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers in California, just 34,
including Fortin, petitioned to bring in foreign farmworkers on the visas,
according to government data for the first eight months of the year.

The Labor Department did not respond to a request for comment about the
findings, and state officials did not immediately provide figures showing the
number of domestic workers hired in July and August.

More than half of farmworkers in the United States are illegal immigrants, the
Labor Department says. Proponents of tougher immigration laws -- as well as the
United Farm Workers of America -- say farmers are used to a cheap, largely
undocumented work force, and if growers raised wages and improved working
conditions, the jobs would attract Americans.

So far, an effort by the UFW to get Americans to take farm jobs has been more
effective in attracting applicants than the official channels.

The UFW in June launched the "Take Our Jobs Campaign," inviting people to go
online and apply. About 8,600 people filled out an application form, but only
seven have been placed in farm jobs, UFW President Arturo Rodriguez said.

Some U.S. workers referred for jobs at Fortin's nursery couldn't do the grueling
work.

"A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absentee
problems, and we had people asking for time off after they had just started," he
said. "Some were actually planting the plants upside down."

Asked what the agency could do to get more U.S. workers into farm jobs,
California Employment Development Department spokeswoman Patti Roberts suggested
the UFW could refer applicants to the state or employers, and the state could
publicize the openings through public service announcements.

Economists have long argued over whether local workers would take jobs in the
field if wages rose.

Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural and resource economics at the UC
Davis, said because so few farmers participate in the H-2A program, it's hard to
draw national conclusions.

"Recruitment of U.S. workers in this program doesn't work well primarily because
employers have already identified who they want to bring in from abroad," Martin
said. "I don't think a lot of U.S. workers are going out there looking for a
seasonal job paying the minimum wage or a dollar more."

The Labor Department collects the same data about H-2A visa applications for all
50 states but does not make it publicly available.

In response to a Freedom of Information Act request from the AP, the agency
offered to provide some records for nearly $11,000 in copying fees, but it was
not clear whether the information would show how many Americans had applied for
farm labor jobs nationwide. The AP plans to file an administrative appeal.

Even California officials say the guest worker program needs fixing, despite a
reform effort announced in February by Labor Secretary Hilda Solis meant to put
more domestic workers in crop-picking jobs.

Benjamin Reynosa, who was picking ruby-colored grapes in 90-degree heat last
week near Fowler, just south of Fresno, said he often is the only legal U.S.
resident on seasonal crews. He said most people hear about the jobs through word
of mouth or signs tacked outside rural stores, not the electronic registry.

"I've been working in agriculture for 22 years, and I can tell you there are
very few gringos out here," said Reynosa, 49, of Orange Cove, about 30 miles
east of Fresno. "If people know English, they go to work in packinghouses or sit
in an office."

In Tulare County, where the unemployment rate is nearly 16 percent, job seekers
on a recent morning crowded around computers at the job development agency.

"We just don't advertise those kinds of farmworker jobs," said Sandi Miller,
program coordinator for the county's work force investment board.

Amid the U.S. Army flyers posted in the lobby, however, under the heading "HOT
JOB LEADS," was an ad for a farmworker position, preferring someone with Spanish
fluency and tractor maintenance skills.

Miller said later it was the first she had seen such a notice. She hadn't
received any applications, she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 1, 2010 Friday

Opinion: Nobody looks good in Meg Whitman's housekeeper flap

BYLINE: By Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 580 words


SAN DIEGO -- In California's gubernatorial race, thank goodness for domestic
workers. This contest was becoming so boring that it was getting difficult to
find people who cared about the outcome. Republican Meg Whitman is basically a
moderate who impersonated a fire-breathing conservative on immigration and other
issues in the GOP primary, and has spent the last few months trying to move back
to the center. Her opponent, Jerry Brown, has reinvented himself so many times
in the last three decades that his supporters can't be sure which version will
be sworn in if he is elected.

Now Nicky Diaz Santillan, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, has spiced things
up. She worked for Whitman as a housekeeper for nine years before being fired 16
months ago as the former eBay CEO was preparing to launch her campaign.

At a news conference with Gloria Allred, Santillan said she had been "exploited,
disrespected, humiliated and emotionally and financially abused" and that her
work wasn't appreciated or valued.

That's rich. You know what really wasn't appreciated or valued? The immigration
statute Santillan violated on her way into the United States.

Allred -- who has what CNN called an extensive history of contributing to
Democratic candidates -- plans to sue for unpaid wages.

The Whitman campaign immediately responded by providing immigration and IRS
forms that Santillan signed in 2000 when she first applied for a job as a
housekeeper, stating that she was a legal resident of the United States, and a
copy of a Social Security card that Santillan presented to Whitman. The
candidate claims that, as soon as she learned that her maid was an illegal
immigrant, she let her go.

Allred alleged that Whitman received, over several years, numerous letters from
the government informing her that her maid's Social Security number belonged to
someone else.

Santillan claimed that at no point did Whitman ever ask if she was in the
country legally.

That part I can believe. It's not against the law to hire an illegal immigrant.
It's only against the law to knowingly hire one.

Predictably, Brown pounced. The whole affair, he said, shows that Whitman
"thinks the rules don't apply to her." He also expressed the hope that Santillan
will be "treated with respect and dignity as this story unfolds."

That's also rich. Brown hasn't treated the immigration issue with respect and
dignity. He enjoys the support of both Latinos and organized labor, two groups
at odds in the debate since one favors comprehensive reform and the other
torpedoed it. It's no wonder that, in refusing to talk about the issue, Brown
has gone yellow.

Whitman also behaved badly, if even part of what Santillan says is true. It's
far-fetched to believe that Whitman didn't know or at least suspect that her
housekeeper was in the country illegally. It's more likely that she didn't want
to know. And yet, she tried to convince the GOP right wing that she was tough on
illegal immigration by suggesting a crackdown on employers. What hypocrisy.

Whitman has said that, if elected, she plans to use state and local police to
help federal agents squeeze employers who hire illegal immigrants by imposing
fines or stripping away business licenses.

Whitman has also promised that she would bar illegal immigrant students from
attending state colleges and universities.

Now we know why. We can't have illegal immigrants getting a college education
that gives them a shot at prestigious, well-paying jobs. Who would clean our
houses?



LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

Worker-status document system 'deeply flawed

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1007 words


SEATTLE -- They cost clothing chain Abercrombie & Fitch $1 million in fines,
tripped up Meg Whitman's campaign for California governor, prompted mass layoffs
across the country and have been at the center of countless other workplace
immigration disputes.

An obscure federal document called the I-9 form has emerged as a contentious
element in the national immigration debate since the Obama administration vowed
to go after employers who hire undocumented workers. Employers must fill out and
sign the form, which requires them to acknowledge, under penalty of perjury,
that they examined documents that allow an employee to work.

The Obama administration a year ago announced plans to ramp up I-9 audits -- a
shift from the notorious work site raids common under the Bush administration.

But most employers with questionable record-keeping aren't being punished for
failing to prove their employees have legal status, an analysis of documents
obtained by The Associated Press shows.

Most receive only warnings if the I-9s turn out to be based on fraudulent
documents. Some are fined. Few face arrest. And the analysis also shows that
many of the employers the government has targeted had no violations.

"The I-9 system is deeply flawed," said Daniel Costas, an immigration policy
analyst at Economic Policy Institute, a Washington, D.C., think tank. It "relies
on employer eyesight for the verification of government identification and
documents. "... If this is how the system is going to work, then it's a big
waste of time and money."

The system is meant to thwart illegal immigrants' ability to work in the U.S.,
where about 7.8 million illegal immigrants have jobs, according to a 2009 report
by the Pew Hispanic Center.

But at its foundation is a law that requires a promise that employers check
their workers' eligibility to work. Those forms are never submitted to the
government. Employers must simply keep them on hand in case the government
decides to audit the business and do a check of its workers' immigration status.
All employers are required to keep the forms -- no matter the size of the
business.

Whitman, the Republican hoping to become California governor today, has
struggled to overcome a scandal over her forced revelation that she had an
illegal immigrant housekeeper for nine years. The maid was required to fill out
an I-9 form when she was hired, and Whitman says she fired her last year when
she learned the woman had lied on the form.

During an audit, ICE agents go through the I-9 forms and check Social Security
numbers to make sure they're real, matching them against copies of other forms
of ID.

Early this year, the AP asked for each of the audits conducted since the changes
to the system were made. The U.S. Department of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement responded recently with limited details of a sampling of audits
covering a seven-month period.

The AP reviewed summaries of 430 audits conducted between July 1, 2009, and Jan.
31, 2010.

During the seven-month period, ICE agents found 22,000 "suspect" documents among
the more than 86,000 I-9s reviewed. Suspect documents mean the person's legal
authorization to work in the U.S. is questionable.

ICE audited more than 200 companies with fewer than 25 employees, including 50
businesses agents listed as having fewer than five workers. More than 250 of the
companies didn't have a single suspect form.

Administrative arrests, usually arrests of immigrants without the proper
documentation, dropped from nearly 5,200 in the fiscal year 2008 to 765 through
August of fiscal year 2010. Criminal arrests of employers rose slightly, from
135 in 2008 to 150 so far in that same time frame. Criminal arrests of workers
dropped from 968 to 208.

ICE officials say their I-9 audit efforts are part of a comprehensive strategy.

"We're trying to create a culture of compliance," said Brett Dreyer, the current
head of ICE's work site enforcement unit. "We're using the best tool available.
We believe in this work site mission as part of the entire strategy."

Dreyer said that in the mid-1990s, immigration agents would

But without large fines and arrests, it's hard to tell how much effect the
audits are having, said Julie Myers, a former Assistant Secretary at ICE during
the Bush administration.

ICE reported that it has collected more than $6.9 million in fines this year, up
from $1.33 million in 2009. But some of those fines come from cases initiated in
previous years, including the $1 million from Abercrombie & Fitch.

More than 200 companies were fined in fiscal year 2010 -- some fines were as low
as a few hundred dollars. There were also examples of harsher fines. Abercrombie
& Fitch will pay more than $1 million for failing to verify the employment
eligibility of its workers in stores in Michigan, authorities announced in
September, after the company agreed to have the case made public.

But most cases have gone unnoticed. For months, ICE said that it could not
release the names of the companies it had audited because of a pending U.S.
Supreme Court ruling. But earlier this month, ICE's legal counsel announced that
the agency will be able to release the names of companies that have had a final
audit order, ICE spokeswoman Gillian Brigham said.

The audits don't go unnoticed by the workers.

In September 2009, American Apparel said it laid off 1,600 workers with suspect
immigration documents after the company was audited.

Peter Schey, spokesman and attorney for American Apparel, said the audits result
in workers being pushed further underground. He said most workers don't leave
the United States -- life here is still better than in their home countries.

Schey, along with other immigrant-rights advocates, want to see ICE conduct the
audits in collaboration with the Department of Labor to hone in on employers
that are violating labor laws.

"If they're hitting the right people, why would they have 250 companies in total
compliance? Why would they only have arrested 135 criminal employers? They have
their targets on the wrong employers," Schey said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 2, 2011 Sunday

Class gives San Mateo County immigrants 'Passport to Employment'

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Pfeffer San Mateo County Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; News

LENGTH: 389 words


Looking for work is hard enough in today's unstable job market, but being an
immigrant in a country where the language and customs are unfamiliar adds new
challenges.

Martin Doerner, a teacher at the San Mateo Adult School, co-founded Passports to
Employment, a class that primes immigrants for the job hunt.

The program teaches key skills such as writing informative, succinct cover
letters and preparing polished résumés. The program also offers extensive
on-camera interview practice.

There is an art to successfully applying for jobs, said Doerner, who says the
same rules apply to non-native English speakers.

Students in the program's first year have had a placement rate of about 50
percent.

"For non-native speakers, it's difficult when you come to this country to learn
everything about etiquette, how to dress, what to do," Doerner said. "It's
really like the students have a mentor."

The program received a $100,000 grant from the Silicon Valley Community
Foundation for its second year; it got off the ground with a $65,000 award.

Luisa Miranda, 50, moved to the U.S. from Peru in 1985 but didn't work because
she was raising children. Today she lives in Burlingame.

Passports to Employment helped Miranda further her training in early childhood
education and get a job assisting a special-needs child.

"They were very professional and very patient with all the students," she said.
"I feel very confident now."

Adult education has been a low priority in the state budget, with cuts forcing
programs to find other funding.

This year was the first that the San Mateo Adult School had to charge tuition --
$30 per semester.

It's a problem for immigrants whose language skills would prevent them from
succeeding in community college, Doerner said.

"They have nowhere else to go," he said. "They're here to stay. They're not
temporary tourists."

About 30 adult schools have been shut down statewide because of funding cuts,
said Fred Thompson, assistant director of instructional services.

"California has always led the nation in adult education. Now we're at bottom,"
Thompson said.

In San Mateo County, however, adult education is still a priority, he added.

"Our school district sees the value in adult education," he said. "All school
districts are at the whim or the good graces of their particular governing
boards and district offices."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

California GOP delegation could have sway on immigration issues in Congress

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1068 words


Tied with Florida as the second-largest Republican delegation outside Texas,
California's 19-member GOP contingent in the House of Representatives could play
a key role this year in formulating an enforcement-focused tone in the national
immigration debate.

Some California Republicans wasted little time co-sponsoring a bill, introduced
Thursday, that would stop the United States from granting automatic citizenship
to children born in the country to illegal immigrants.

"It is unfair to grant birthright citizenship to children of illegal immigrants
because it undermines the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment, rewards those
that have recklessly broken our nation's immigration laws, and costs American
taxpayers billions annually," said Rep. Gary Miller, R-Diamond Bar, in a
statement Thursday.

The California Republican delegation represents a diverse constituency that
includes nearly 4 million Latino residents -- Miller's Southern California
district, for instance, is 27.5 percent Latino -- but the hard line that many of
its members espouse worries strategists concerned about the party's long-term
relevance in the state.

"I think a minority of Republican Congress members, especially in Southern
California, have hijacked this issue," said Alfonso Aguilar, director of the
Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a national advocacy group. "It
seems to me that some of them unfortunately don't want to have a constructive
discussion on immigration. However, I think it would be wrong for us to assume
the majority of Republicans think like them."

Aguilar, who was chief of the national Office of Citizenship in the Bush
administration, argues that Republicans need to transition their brand from the
"anti-illegal immigration party to the pro-legal immigration party.

"That's the only way the Republican party can survive in California," he added.

He said he doubted, however, that California's House Republicans would do much
to constructively engage with the state's Latino population, who vote
overwhelmingly for Democrats.

GOP consultant Hector Barajas was more optimistic, citing the moderate
immigration tone of new Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy, R-Bakersfield, whose role
will make him the most powerful California Republican.

"He is from (the Central Valley). He gets it. He understands the importance of
creating alliances, and not looking at this issue in a demonizing way," Barajas
said.

McCarthy was among a minority of California Republicans who did not sign on to
the birthright citizenship bill in the last Congress, and he and other Central
Valley moderates are unlikely to take the divisive measure up in the new
Congress, Barajas said. Lack of support from influential Republicans would leave
the bill a symbolic, rhetorical measure that would have no chance of passing, he
said.

The other Californians who do support it, Barajas warned, should heed the
demographic changes that could lessen their long-term relevance in the state. An
independent redistricting commission that will redraw congressional districts
this year could make changes that might doom Central Valley and Inland Empire
Republicans who do not engage Latino constituents.

"They may end up finding themselves with a whole new reality: A lot more
Latinos, a lot more people of color and minorities," Barajas said. Those
minority voters, he said, are "going to start paying more attention if they feel
like they're being attacked as a group."

Though California's Republican representatives are all white men, they are not a
monolithic voting bloc in Congress. Central Valley Republicans have tended to be
more moderate than their suburban Southern California counterparts, especially
on issues that involve agriculture. Illegal immigrants form the bulk of the farm
labor force in California.

But the Central Valley champion of an agricultural immigration bargain, Rep.
George Radanovich, R-Mariposa, retired this week and was replaced by Rep. Jeff
Denham, who has not yet articulated how his immigration views might differ from
his predecessor.

"The reality is that you are never going to get a reform bill unless they deal
with a guest worker program or a humane way to deal with the people here
already," Radanovich said this week. "I'm hopeful there's still a contingent of
San Joaquin Republicans who raise the flag for guest workers, but I think that's
still a question. I was the main one who did, and I'm not there."

Among the California Republicans who could have an influential role in drafting
immigration policy is Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Simi Valley, who last year was a
minority member of the immigration subcommittee when it was chaired by San Jose
Democrat Zoe Lofgren.

Gallegly aides said the composition of the new immigration subcommittee has not
yet been decided, but the Simi Valley congressman is likely to work alongside
Rep. Steve King, an Iowa Republican who is one of the most vocal critics of
illegal immigration in Congress. King was the one who introduced the bill this
week that would revoke birthright citizenship, and has long been expected to
chair the immigration subcommittee under a Republican majority.

Some influential lawmakers, such as Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Gold River, expressed
frustration last year with the Democratic approach to immigration, but it's not
yet clear what approach they will take with majority power.

California GOP chairman Ron Nehring declined to speculate how the delegation
would approach immigration policy, but he said several representatives,
including Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Solana Beach, and Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-Alpine,
are likely to take an active and influential role.

"California's delegation is very influential, number one, because of its size
and, number two, because you have so many people in senior leadership," Nehring
said.

But in a state where 36 percent of residents are Latino, liberal immigrant
advocates promise a Latino backlash if the delegation leans toward a hard-line
position.

The average Republican congressional district in California is about 28 percent
Latino, but many are not citizens or are citizens not yet old enough to vote.

"Even if you have 20 percent Latinos in your district, chances are they're only
going to be about 10 percent of your voters," said Lisa Garcia Bedolla, who
chairs UC Berkeley's Center for Latino Policy Research.

In the long term, however, many of those immigrants will eventually become
voters, she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 6, 2011 Thursday

Accepted at UC Berkeley, student and her family get reprieve from deportation to
Peru

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 748 words


An 18-year-old honors student who was set to be deported to Peru got a welcome
surprise Thursday when immigration authorities granted her a months-long
reprieve.

Just hours before a planned rally for Lowell High School graduate Elizabeth Lee,
her 16-year-old brother, Felix, and their mother, all of whom were set to be
deported Jan. 19, the family learned that their deportation was being put on
hold.



Immigration authorities said they would delay the deportation date until July,
leaving the family time to work with a lawyer on their case.

"We're all really relieved and really happy," Elizabeth Lee said.

The family came to the United States on tourist visas in 2001 and overstayed
those visas. Immigration authorities arrested the mother, Melissa Lee, in late
spring after she lost a claim for political asylum. Elizabeth Lee had been
accepted to UC Berkeley for the fall semester and planned to attend, but her
mother's arrest caused her to decline enrollment as her family tried to resolve
their legal problems. She has been studying closer to home at City College of
San Francisco. An electronic ankle bracelet monitors her whereabouts.

"We're losing a potential UC Berkeley future graduate -- who'd give back to the
community and contribute to the economy -- for no good reason," said Eric
Quezada, director of Dolores Street Community Services, which is representing
the family in immigration court. "These cases get replicated on a daily basis
throughout the country."

The Lee siblings are the latest young San Francisco residents from Peru to
become embroiled in a deportation case that has attracted wide protest.

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., last year intervened in the case of Steve
Li, another City College student who was arrested at his home in September and
jailed in an Arizona detention facility before the lawmaker filed a private
relief bill on his behalf. Li was born in Peru to Chinese immigrant parents, and
he was set to be deported to a country where he knew no one.

Advocates for Elizabeth and Felix Lee say they also have little connection to
Peru, which they left a decade ago when they were elementary school students.
Elizabeth Lee graduated in the spring with a 3.75 GPA from Lowell High,
considered San Francisco's top public high school, and would have had a
promising career in front of her in the United States, said her lawyer,
Francisco Ugarte.

The principal of Lowell High School and other advocates rallied Thursday
afternoon in front of Mission Dolores, the historic Catholic church in San
Francisco that the Lees attended.

When Immigration and Customs Enforcement released Melissa Lee from custody over
the summer, the federal agency allowed the mother and her children to stay in
the country until Jan. 19 as the case was resolved, Ugarte said.

There are few opportunities to halt a deportation, but lawyers were looking into
several options to keep the family in the country. They filed a request with
immigration authorities this week to continue to delay the deportation, at least
temporarily, on humanitarian grounds. Among the reasons, said Ugarte, is that
deporting the family now would disrupt the education of Felix Lee, a student at
Lowell High.

"This is just one example of so many we see of people who have very few
opportunities for relief, and who are really amazing people who shouldn't be
deported," Ugarte said.

Until last month, advocates had been hoping students such as Li and the Lees
could find a remedy with the passage of the Dream Act, a bill that would offer a
path to citizenship to illegal immigrants brought to the country before they
were 16 years old who graduate from high school and pursue college or military
service.

The Democratic-controlled House of Representatives passed the Dream Act on Dec.
8, but the bill was defeated after it came five votes short was of a
filibuster-proof supermajority in the Senate. Republicans who oppose the bill
took over the House majority and leadership this week, and most analysts
consider it highly unlikely that they will allow the bill to be taken up again.

With the temporary reprieve, Elizabeth Lee said she plans to continue classes at
City College, and if she can become a permanent resident someday she would like
to transfer to UC Berkeley to study sociology. For now, however, the ankle
bracelet she wakes up to every morning is a reminder that her future is in
limbo.

"It's just like a reminder of your problems everyday. You see that ankle
bracelet everyday," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday

Buoys added along border canal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1050 words


CALEXICO -- A government agency on the front lines of the immigration debate has
begun installing lifesaving buoys in a fast-moving canal along the U.S.-Mexico
border where migrants drown each year as they sneak into the country illegally.

The debate over the lifelines has long presented authorities with a moral
dilemma: Is it acceptable to do nothing when so many immigrants are dying in the
water? Or do lifesaving devices lull immigrants into a false sense of security
that they can conquer the channel while giving them extra motivation to enter
the country illegally?

The agency that manages the canal had waffled on those questions as board
members worried aloud that the buoys would encourage illegal immigration. But
the Imperial Irrigation District reversed course in August and has been bolting
105 lines across the 82-mile desert canal at a cost of $1.1 million. Crews are
also planting 1,414 bilingual signs on canal banks that read, "Warning:
Dangerous Water."

There was scant discussion about the sudden change of heart, but the catalyst
appears to be a CBS "60 Minutes" report that portrayed the agency as indifferent
and callous on the buoy issue.

The canal can pose extreme danger to people trying to swim across. Currents
moving at 25 mph to 30 mph can be no match for immigrants who can't swim. The
decomposing corpses of immigrants rise to the surface bloated with gases after
days underwater expanding like balloons.

More than 500 people have drowned in the All-American Canal since the waterway
was built in 1942 to bring Colorado River water to farms in California's
Imperial Valley. Twelve people died in 2009. The death toll peaked at 31 in 1998
after a Border Patrol crackdown in San Diego pushed migrants to cross in remote
areas.

Imperial County supervising deputy coroner Charles Lucas said the bodies are
found in "pretty horrendous" condition, so decomposed that they can't be
recognized. Migrants who drown and are never claimed by their families are
buried in the no-stoplight town of Holtville. There are about 400 graves at the
back of the town's cemetery, made of single bricks and often engraved "John
Doe."

Migrants interviewed at a shelter across the border in Mexicali, Mexico, said
the buoy lines will have little impact on whether people cross the canal.

Juan Avalos swam across the canal in 2001 and 2004 and planned to do it again
sometime this month with a few friends. They will use a ladder or rope to climb
over a nearby border fence before plunging into the canal.

The canal is entirely in the United States but hugs the border, at one stretch
only about 50 yards from the border fence.

"Anyone who knows how to swim really well is going to be fine," said Avalos, 40.
"Anyone who doesn't swim that well may have problems. It's easy for me."

Last time, Avalos swam across with one hand held high, carrying dry clothes.
After crossing, he walked more than a day to hop a freight train to Fresno,
where he had a friend pick him up.

Benito Ramirez crossed the canal in 2005 by grabbing a car tire with five other
migrants and paddling with one hand as the current took them 30 yards
downstream. He also once saw a Border Patrol agent save a woman who was drowning
in the canal.

"We're looking for the American dream," said Ramirez, 26. "We left behind our
families, our communities. The goal for many is to work in the United States."

The next time Ramirez crosses the border, he plans to do it by land because his
brother is uneasy about swimming through the treacherous canal.

They believe the trek is worth it, regardless of how they get here; relatives
tell them jobs are waiting at Nebraska meatpacking plants and that Pennsylvania
homes and businesses need gardeners.

The agency began installing buoy lines every half-mile along a 23-mile
concrete-lined portion of the canal in September, each one with 30 orange balls.
The lines will be a mile apart along the 59-mile earthen section by March. The
concrete section is more dangerous because water moves faster there.

The configuration of the buoys was controversial.

Some wanted the lines placed at 45-degree angles and pointed downstream toward
Mexico. That way, anyone who grabbed a line would be pushed by the currents away
from the U.S. and back to Mexico.

The angled buoy plan was eventually scrapped in a victory for John Hunter, a
suburban San Diego physicist who has been the leading advocate for the buoys.

Hunter, whose brother Duncan pushed for tougher immigration enforcement as a
U.S. congressman, argued that the angled lines would only be more deadly for
migrants who are determined to make it across. The lines are being placed
straight across.

The irrigation district made the decision to install the buoys after board
member Stella Mendoza faced withering criticism following the "60 Minutes"
report. She was quoted as saying more people were likely to die without changes
in a canal that some have dubbed "the most dangerous body of water in the U.S."

"It would be wrong to say that coverage didn't contribute to the decision," said
agency spokesman Kevin Kelley.

The San Diego County Water Authority, which gets water from the canal, is
balking at pleas to help shoulder the cost of the buoys.

"It is a very difficult equation to come up with the right approach to this to
improve human safety without going too far as to make it appealing to jump in,"
said Dennis Cushman, assistant general manager for the San Diego County agency.

Maria Contreras buried her son last year after he tried to swim across the
canal. Her athletic son was preparing to graduate high school and get married
when she last saw him.

"Don't do it," she said as she fought tears in the living room of her Mexicali
home. "It's very sad to lose a child. You can't get over it. All those dreams
are cut short."

Queneret's body showed up two days after he drowned, his back pressed against a
gate that catches debris flowing into one of the Imperial Irrigation District's
hydroelectric plants. According to the coroner's report, family members told
authorities that he helped smuggle illegal immigrants.

The body was so badly decomposed that it couldn't be identified with
fingerprints. Authorities showed his mother some jewelry they recovered,
including an earring stud with a marijuana leaf. She claimed his body on his
20th birthday.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 13, 2011 Thursday

USCIS to host free session on naturalization at Sunnyvale Public Library Jan. 28

BYLINE: By Alia Wilson, Sunnyvale Sun awilson@community-newspapers.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 257 words


As part of a larger initiative to help immigrants better understand the
naturalization process, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will host a
free information session at the Sunnyvale Public Library on Jan. 28.

During the workshop, USCIS officers will review the content of the
naturalization test and provide free educational resources and materials. The
San Jose field office hosts four workshops a year and naturalizes 1,400 people a
month, according to USCIS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

"We are trying to bring the workshops to different audiences in different
locations," Rummery said. "Having these workshops helps to take away the
intimidation of the whole process. Once they know what to expect, they find out
how easy it is. So many opportunities open up."

Rummery said the workshop will be done in English, but bilingual staff will be
on hand.

USCIS personnel will be available to discuss the naturalization process
step-by-step and provide information about eligibility and residency
requirements, application forms, fees, the background security check and
processing times. Participants will also see sample questions from the new test
and will receive an overview of U.S. history and civic principles. They'll also
watch USCIS officers act out a naturalization interview, and free educational
materials will be handed out while supplies last.

The workshop takes place on Jan. 28 from 1 to 3 p.m. at the library, 665 W.
Olive Ave.

For more information, visit www.uscis.gov/citizenshipsessions or call the
library at 408.730.7300.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 20, 2011 Thursday

USCIS to host free session on naturalization at Sunnyvale Public Library Jan. 28

BYLINE: By Alia Wilson, Sunnyvale Sun awilson@community-newspapers.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 438 words


As part of a larger initiative to help immigrants better understand the
naturalization process, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will host a
free information session at the Sunnyvale Public Library on Jan. 28.

During the workshop, USCIS officers will review the content of the
naturalization test and provide free educational resources and materials. The
San Jose field office hosts four workshops a year and naturalizes 1,400 people a
month, according to USCIS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

"We are trying to bring the workshops to different audiences in different
locations," Rummery said. "Having these workshops helps to take away the
intimidation of the whole process. Once they know what to expect, they find out
how easy it is. So many opportunities open up."

The workshop comes on the heels of the release of 2005-09 census data in
December, which declared Silicon Valley--primarily San Jose, Sunnyvale and Santa
Clara--as No. 2 on the list of Top 20 U.S. Cities with the Most Immigrants.

According to Language Services Associates, a professional language service
provider, Sunnyvale has one of the highest demands in the country for language
services support, including interpretation and translation services. Many
residents are working with interpreters on a daily basis, including health care
providers, teachers and legal professionals.

In recognition of the list and to mark Language Services Associates' 20th
anniversary, the company has comprised a list of 20 tips for non-English
speakers in the states and across the globe when working with interpreters. The
tips include speaking at an even pace and pausing after short segments. Also,
speakers should be aware that there may not be exact linguistic equivalents for
some concepts and should avoid using metaphors, idioms, complicated sentence
structures and sentence fragments as a result.

Rummery said the workshop will be done in English, but bilingual staff will be
on hand.

USCIS personnel will be available to discuss the naturalization process step by
step and provide information about eligibility and residency requirements,
application forms, fees, the background security check and processing times.
Participants will also see sample questions from the new test and will receive
an overview of U.S. history and civic principles. They'll also watch USCIS
officers act out a naturalization interview, and free educational materials will
be handed out while supplies last.

The workshop takes place on Jan. 28 from 1 to 3 p.m. at the library, 665 W.
Olive Ave.

For more information, visit www.uscis.gov/citizenship sessions or call the
library at 408.730.7300.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

Oakland police change vehicle impound policy

BYLINE: By Cecily Burt

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


Undocumented immigrants caught driving without a license in Oakland used to pay
hundreds -- sometimes thousands -- in tow and impound fees, often racking up
lost wages before getting their cars back.

But the police department quietly changed its policy in November, and motorists
whose immigration status prevents them from obtaining a license now are allowed
to sign a waiver and leave their car parked nearby. That also can call a friend
or family member to come pick the car up immediately.

Oakland City Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente, who represents the Glenview and
Fruitvale districts, said the new policy ends a practice that unfairly netted
unintended targets during traffic enforcement operations.

"The purpose was to get drunk drivers, or people with warrants or with guns, but
the unintended consequence was most of the drivers who got cited were unlicensed
immigrant drivers," De La Fuente said. "I remember one night last fall on
Foothill Boulevard and 34th Avenue, about 29 cars were impounded. One was a
family with a baby in the back, and they had to walk home.

"The law is the law, but we can apply it with some sensitivity," De La Fuente
added. "The intent of these actions is definitely to get criminals, not people
who are just trying to work and feed their family."

Berkeley adopted a similar policy in November, and San Francisco did so a year
earlier.

The change in policy applies only to drivers who never have had a license, not
to motorists whose drivers licenses have been suspended or allowed to expire.
The new policy also does not apply to drivers who are putting the public at risk
by participating in sideshows or speeding, or have warrants or are driving under
the influence.

Youth leaders with Oakland Community Organizations had pushed for the change in
policy for a few years, community organizer Emma Paulino said. Through research,
the groups found that, on average, more than 50 cars owned by undocumented
drivers were towed and impounded every month, and that drivers paid an average
of $2,500 to retrieve their vehicles. The policy also made the immigrant
community feel unfairly targeted and distrustful of police.

"It's amazing how many immigrants were caught up in this," she said. "It took
three years of work, with different police chiefs, to get it done."

According to Lt. Mike Poirier, who gave a report at the Jan. 11 Public Safety
meeting, first-time offenders receive a citation.

If they agree to sign a waiver holding the city blameless for any damage, they
can park their car on a city street and have someone pick it up later if there
is no licensed passenger in the car. If someone is stopped more than once in a
six-month period, the car will be towed, Poirier said.

Last year the city earned $360,000 in revenue from tow-and-impound release fees,
but that figure will go down because of the change, Poirier said.

Some towing companies also have seen their business drop since the city changed
its policy.

Ismael Santoyo, of Ismy's Towing in East Oakland, said the new policy, combined
with other changes, gives an individual more time to pay before a tow is called
and has impacted his business. The new policy also requires fewer checkpoints,
fewer sideshows and fewer cars being booted for nonpayment of parking tickets.

"We used to do 100-200 tows a week, now we do 25-50 a week," Santoyo said,
adding that undocumented tows and impround fees represented about 50 to 60
percent of his business. "I've had to lay off three drivers and a mechanic and
cut my overhead. I had to stop insurance on three trucks. Before the city used
the boot only until the tow was called, but now people have 72 hours to pay."

Santoyo recognizes that a big part of his problem will result in a better
situation for fellow Latinos.

"We feel bad, because this business is our life," he said. "But people drive
without a license because they have to work, they have families and they have to
drive."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

In brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words


north carolina

Teen suspect in standoff fatally shot by police

A teenager who detained several people inside a suburban bank Thursday emerged
from the building holding a gun to the head of one of his captives and was shot
dead by police after three hours of tense negotiations helped by a hidden
hostage who was feeding authorities information.

The gruesome final scene on the western edge of Cary, a booming suburb west of
Raleigh, played out live on TV during the dinner hour. None of the hostages nor
any of the officers involved were injured, authorities said.

Arizona

Sen. Jon Kyl announces he will retire next year

Sen. Jon Kyl announced Thursday he will step down next year after three terms in
office, creating yet another vacancy in a chamber about to undergo a significant
makeover with several incumbents either stepping down or facing tough
re-election challenges.

The decision to retire by Arizona's junior senator set off an immediate scramble
for what will be Arizona's first open Senate seat in 18 years.

Kyl, who has become a leading conservative voice on foreign affairs, said at a
news conference it was time to give someone else a shot at the seat he's held
since 1994.

In other news


     ·    Gov. Jan Brewer sued the federal government Thursday for failing to
          control Arizona's border with Mexico and enforce immigration laws, and
          for sticking the state with huge costs associated with jailing illegal
          immigrants who commit crimes. The lawsuit claims the federal
          government has failed to protect Arizona from an "invasion" of illegal
          immigrants. Brewer's court filing serves as a countersuit in the
          federal government's legal challenge to Arizona's enforcement law.


From The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 10, 2011 Thursday

De Anza College exhibit follows story of woman detained at San Francisco's Angel
Island

BYLINE: By Matt Wilson mwilson@community-newspapers.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 461 words


For many Asian immigrants, Angel Island was both a gateway to the American way
of life and a place to be feared. A new exhibit at De Anza College's California
History Center tells the story of one woman who was trapped between a Chinese
and an American life on the island.

"Detained at Liberty's Door: The Story of Liberty Lost on Angel Island, and a
Legacy Regained" highlights the story of Mrs. Lee Yoke Suey, the wife of an
American-born citizen who was detained for more than 15 months on Angel Island.
The exhibit tells of how she gained her freedom through an association with one
of California's most powerful and iconic families. The tone is set with
background information about the Angel Island Immigration Station and much of
the anti-Chinese sentiment and immigration policies from the early 1900s.

Last year marked the centennial of Angel Island Immigration Station, which is
often referred to as the Ellis Island of the West. The exhibit remarks on the
period from 1882 to 1943, when the Chinese were banned from citizenship and
naturalization.

In January 1924, Suey was the widow of an American-born merchant, returning home
from China with her American-born children. The exhibit tells the story of how
her citizenship was no longer valid since her husband had died. She was
separated from her children and would spend the next 15 months in a legal battle
for her citizenship.

The story of her quest for freedom is told through eight information panels
using photographs and text. The exhibit also features items belonging to Suey,
including a traveling trunk, photographs, letters and other memorabilia.

De Anza College is the first institution to host the small exhibit outside of
the Chinese Historical Society of America Museum in San Francisco's Chinatown.

"We are very proud to have this come here," said Tom Izu, executive director of
the California History Center.

The South Bay premiere of the traveling exhibit also features information from
San Jose's original Chinatown, known as Heinlenville. The planned
Chinese-American community was established in 1887 near what is today referred
to as Japantown. The exhibit features maps, photos and artifacts gathered from
recent archeological excavations.

Community historian Connie Young Yu of Los Altos Hills helped develop the
exhibit with the Chinese Historical Society of America and with the support of
the California History Center at De Anza College. Young Yu is Suey's
granddaughter.

The exhibit runs until June 24, Tuesday to Thursday from 9:30 a.m. to noon and
again from 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free.

The California History Center is housed in Le Petit Trianon at the college,
21250 Stevens Creek Blvd.

For more information, call Tom Izu at 408.864.8986 or visit
www.deanza.fhda.edu/califhistory .

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tom Izu, executive director of De Anza College's California History
Center, looks at items from the Center's new exhibit titled, "Detained at
Liberty's Door: The Story of Liberty Lost on Angel Island, and a Legacy
Regained." This exhibit traces the formation of the Angel Island Immigration
Station through the experiences of Mrs. Lee Yoke Suey,the wife of an
American-born citizen who was detained on Angel Island for over 15 months. Only
an association with one of CaliforniaÕs most powerful and iconic families
secured her freedom. The South Bay premier of this traveling exhibit will also
feature a look at one of San JoséÕs Chinatowns. Known as Heinlenville, this
planned Chinese American community was established in 1887 near todayÕs
Japantown. Using maps and photos, and through the interpretation of artifacts
gathered from archeological excavations, this exhibit provides a glimpse into
the daily life of those immigrants who gained their freedom and settled in the
South Bay area. Local community historian Connie Young Yu (Los Altos Hills)
helped develop this exhibit with the Chinese Historical Society of America with
the support of the California History Center at De Anza College. Young Yu is the
granddaughter of Mrs. Lee Yoke Suey. The exhibit will run from January 28, 2011
through June 24, 2011. (photo Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN/February 3, 2011)
Items on display at De Anza College's California History Center new exhibit
titled, "Detained at Liberty's Door: The Story of Liberty Lost on Angel Island,
and a Legacy Regained," include these bound foot shoes, circa 1924, worn by Mrs.
Lee Yoke Suey. This exhibit traces the formation of the Angel Island Immigration
Station through the experiences of Mrs. Lee Yoke Suey, the wife of an
American-born citizen who was detained on Angel Island for over 15 months. Only
an association with one of CaliforniaÕs most powerful and iconic families
secured her freedom. The South Bay premier of this traveling exhibit will also
feature a look at one of San JoséÕs Chinatowns. Known as Heinlenville, this
planned Chinese American community was established in 1887 near todayÕs
Japantown. Using maps and photos, and through the interpretation of artifacts
gathered from archeological excavations, this exhibit provides a glimpse into
the daily life of those immigrants who gained their freedom and settled in the
South Bay area. Local community historian Connie Young Yu (Los Altos Hills)
helped develop this exhibit with the Chinese Historical Society of America with
the support of the California History Center at De Anza College. Young Yu is the
granddaughter of Mrs. Lee Yoke Suey. The exhibit will run from January 28, 2011
through June 24, 2011. (photo Jacqueline Ramseyer/SVCN/February 3, 2011)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 17, 2011 Thursday

Quality of life fuels rapid growth of immigrants in the East Bay suburbs

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Paul Burgarino Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1687 words


ANTIOCH -- Immigrants attracted by better schools, bigger homes and a quiet
atmosphere are changing the face of many of the East Bay's suburbs, adding
diversity to communities that had far less of it just a decade ago.

Newly available census data shows that the most dramatic growth in the
foreign-born population since 2000 happened not in traditional immigrant
gateways such as San Francisco and Oakland, but in the suburbs -- with some of
the biggest changes in Antioch, San Lorenzo and the Tri-Valley.

These communities were not necessarily the first stop on an immigrant's journey
to the United States, but they are places where thousands of immigrants already
established in the region chose to move for a better quality of life.

"When I arrived from Nicaragua, I was living in San Francisco. It was too noisy;
too much people," said Lissette Aragon, who moved to Antioch in 2000. "Here,
it's nice and quiet and I had an opportunity to buy a property. I was trying to
get a better place for my son."

An estimated 9,000 immigrants moved to Antioch in the past decade, one of the
largest increases in the foreign-born population of any Bay Area city during
that time. They hailed from Mexico, Central America, the Philippines, South Asia
and West Africa, and many had lived in other Bay Area cities.

"Pretty much all the people I know that moved to Antioch was through
word-of-mouth," Aragon said. "People told me housing was cheap, and you can
afford it."

Finding the proper red beans for a gallo pinto dish was an impossible task for
Walter Castro when he moved to Antioch more than a decade ago. Nicaraguan food
was an unheard-of commodity, and other Nicaraguan immigrants who shared his life
experiences were also hard to find.

But with about 2,000 Nicaraguan-Americans, about half of them immigrants,
Antioch now boasts California's fifth-largest Nicaraguan community -- behind Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Daly City and San Jose.

Castro has met fellow Antioch residents who were his high school classmates in
Managua, Nicaragua's capital, and one who went to the same kindergarten. The
region still lacks Nicaraguan food -- the closest restaurant is in Pittsburg,
and he relies on the handful of Mexican groceries that carry the products he
desires.

The family lives in a two-story stucco house with a big backyard and a telescope
to look at stars. A bust of Nicaraguan poet Ruben Dario gazes over the living
room. Castro believes that his children, now in their 20s, benefited from having
attended suburban schools. The distance from San Francisco can be tough -- his
wife, Zoila, a Federal Reserve analyst, abhors her commute. But the couple say
their move was worth it, and they are not surprised that thousands of other
immigrants did the same thing.

"I don't complain about San Francisco," said Castro, who lived in the Mission
district after fleeing Nicaragua's political turmoil in the 1980s. "But Antioch
has much better weather, a better environment, more quiet, and it's more secure
to leave the kids on the street and in the backyard to play."

Immigrant families with similar preferences gravitated to the newer,
southeastern part of Antioch, where spacious homes sold quickly and relatively
cheaply in the early part of the past decade. The median value of a Bay Area
home was about $354,000 in 2000, according to the census, but the Antioch median
was $197,000 at that time. The housing crash and recession halted some of that
movement, but it did not stop the growing diversification.

Tri-Valley growth

Indian, Chinese, Taiwanese and Filipino immigrants drove the rapid demographic
transition in the wealthier Tri-Valley, where more than 18,000 immigrants moved
to the cities of San Ramon, Dublin, Pleasanton and Livermore in the past decade.

Today, more than 1 in 4 San Ramon residents -- about 27 percent -- was born in
another country, up from about 1 in 6 residents in 2000. Dublin and Pleasanton
experienced similar shifts.

Indian immigrant Rohit Vij and his family moved to Dublin from Burbank in 2009
for the schools, proximity to Silicon Valley jobs, quiet and well-maintained
streets, and the accepting Bay Area culture. The family wanted a place where
there were enough Indians to generate demand for ethnic groceries and cultural
networks, but not so many that it was overwhelming, Vij said.

Months after he arrived, Vij founded a website called Tri-Valley Desi to help
South Asians network and share information about local events and cultural
services. Its popularity is a reflection of the growing local demand for
activities ranging from cricket matches to house concerts and lessons in
Bharatanatyam, a classical dance from South India.

"Many already moved to the Bay Area to work in the IT industry, and as they felt
more settled, they wanted to move into places that had a nice family atmosphere,
newer houses and very good schools," Vij said. "That made them move a little
further out of the core Bay Area."

Demographic changes were also dramatic in the unincorporated Alameda County
suburb of San Lorenzo, which is beginning to reflect the ethnic diversity of its
bigger neighbor, Hayward.

Visible changes

Built during the 1940s as one of America's first master-planned suburbs, San
Lorenzo Village once excluded minorities. Posted bylaws announced that the
community of thousands of one-story tract houses was restricted to people of the
"white or Caucasian races."

Much has changed in the past 65 years -- especially in the past 10. The suburb's
predominantly white population of original homeowners has dwindled. There were
just a few hundred of them at the 50th anniversary of San Lorenzo Village in
1995 and even fewer at the 60th anniversary celebration, said Nancy Van Huffel,
administrator of the homes association.

Immigrant families attracted by the suburban atmosphere and looking for starter
homes have taken their place, she said. The median value of a San Lorenzo home
was $223,000 at the turn of the 21st century, well below the regional average.

Today, nearly 31 percent of San Lorenzo residents were born in another country,
up from 21 percent in 2000. Most came from Mexico and the Philippines, and
others from Vietnam and China.

"Most of my neighbors are Filipino now," said Nelida Santos, a San Lorenzo
resident who owns Pinoy's Place restaurant. The others, she said, are from
Mexico.

Santos moved to the village in 1991, opened a Filipino video store around the
corner from her house in 1994 and expanded the space into a restaurant in 2002.
She has watched as more Filipinos moved into town in the past decade, keeping
her business viable. Elders come to the cozy, family-run diner to chat. Busy
young parents stop to pick up 16- or 32-ounce takeout boxes of home-style
Filipino food.

The demographic shift in San Lorenzo boils down to one key factor, Santos said.
"Housing prices is No. 1," she said. "Plus, it's still a place where I can leave
my door open. It feels so safe."

Sources of friction

The rapid arrival of so many immigrants to East Bay suburbs is not without
challenges. In Antioch, especially, the explosive change has caused some
friction in a city "that really started losing its homogeneity only some two
decades ago," said Walter Ruehlig, a trustee of the Antioch Unified School
District. Antioch is now about 21 percent foreign-born, up from 13 percent in
2000. The city has also experienced a simultaneous growth of its black
population.

In anonymous online forums and private conversations, it is not uncommon to hear
some Antioch residents associate their concerns about crime and blight with the
changing racial composition of the city.

Ruehlig relishes the diversity. He counts immigrant neighbors from Fiji, Great
Britain, India, Mexico, Nicaragua and the Philippines on his street in southeast
Antioch.

At the same time, he said, language barriers and other social factors have
widened the achievement gap in local schools. Latino student enrollment grew to
34 percent in the 2008-09 school year, up from 23 percent a decade earlier.
Black and Asian enrollment also grew as the white student population dropped. He
said federal statistics show that many of the Latino students are falling
behind.

"It's something we have to be aware of and work extra hard at," Ruehlig said.

The school leader believes those who resist change are avoiding the inevitable,
and he said the population transition likely will strengthen Antioch.

"It's all what we make of it," Ruehlig said in an e-mail. "The ethnic
transformation could become our greatest asset with upward-striving families and
a young, multilingual work force, or it could tear us apart if we live in silos.

"Because we are not a city with well-marked cultural ghettos, because schools
and neighborhoods are so integrated, I am betting that we will overcome the
transitional bumps, adapt and go with the flow."

Contact Matt O'Brien at 925-977-8463 or mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com .
Contact Paul Burgarino at 925-779-7164 or pburgarino@bayareanewsgroup.com .

About the data

The estimates of the immigrant population in the East Bay do not come from the
2010 decennial census, which did not ask residents about immigration status or
place of birth. Instead, the data is an aggregation of census surveys taken over
a five-year period between 2005 and 2009. The U.S. Census Bureau sends the
American Community Survey to 3 million American households each year. Because it
is a sample, combining the data over a five-year period significantly increases
its accuracy for small areas. Because the surveys, unlike the full census, ask
for place of birth, they are one of the only sources of information about where
immigrants live.
The immigrant population includes any person born in another country, no matter
how they got here or when they arrived, but those living in the United States
illegally tend to be wary of participating in the government surveys and more
likely to be underrepresented in the figures.
The five-year American Community Survey data was released to the public in
December and is online at www.census.gov . The California results of the 2010
census have not been released, but will be in a few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 20, 2011 Sunday

Rep. Mike Honda calls for U.S. apology for Chinese Exclusion Act

BYLINE: By Sharon Noguchi snoguchi@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
Education; Crime; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 485 words


On Sunday, a day after the 69th anniversary of the executive order incarcerating
Japanese-Americans, Rep. Mike Honda called on Americans to end the blaming of
immigrants and called for an official U.S. apology for the Chinese Exclusion Act
of 1882.

Honda, D-San Jose, spoke to about 200 people gathered for the "Day of
Remembrance" that solemnly commemorated federal Executive Order 9066, issued
Feb. 19, 1942. It authorized the imprisonment of 120,000 Japanese and
Japanese-Americans during World War II in internment camps.

Sounding like the high-school teacher he once was, Honda tied together events
from American history. Years of scapegoating foreigners for economic woes, he
said, led in 1882 to the Chinese Exclusion Act. "1882 was the culmination of
things that happened before," he said.

He called for an official U.S. apology for the act, which suspended Chinese
immigration, made Chinese living here permanent aliens ineligible for
citizenship, and later was extended to other Asians and to bar aliens from
owning property.

He and other speakers at the forum at the San Jose Buddhist Church Betsuin noted
the similarities between the treatment of Japanese-Americans 70 years ago and
today's anti-immigrant sentiments as well as the post-Sept. 11, 2001, reaction
against Muslims, Middle Easterners and South Asians in the United States.

"Imagine having to prove being an American, having to prove that you belong, and
not knowing how to do so," said Zahra Biloo, executive director of the Council
on American-Islamic Relations, San Francisco Bay Area.

Many in the audience, including former internees, their families and Muslim
community representatives, understood. Biloo called the U.S. Patriot Act, just
renewed by Congress, the "modern day 9066" that creates a mentality of fear.

With a theme of "Fighting Against Fear," the program organized by the Nihonmachi
Outreach committee invited parallels between 1942 and 2011. Yasmin Vanya of the
South Bay Islamic Association thanked Japanese-American organizations, which she
said were the first groups to reach out to the Muslim community in San Jose
after the 2001 terror attacks. "You stepped up and are making sure this will not
happen again," she said.

After hearing several speakers, the crowd participated in a candlelight
procession around Japantown, accompanied by San Jose Taiko.

Samir Hamsafar, 20, toured the Japanese-American Museum with his De Anza College
Asian-American studies class before the forum. Hamsafar's father, an Afghan
immigrant, was questioned by the FBI after Sept. 11 because he came from a
village where the Taliban was active.

Even now, Hamsafar said, in the Afghan community, "people fear discrimination."

Biloo said that last year attacks on Muslims individually and in places of
worship increased.

"We must fight this fear. We must learn from our history, and we should say
never again."

Contact Sharon Noguchi at 408-271-3775.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 24, 2011 Thursday

Police help deport criminals

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1226 words


MARTINEZ -- The federal immigration agency has finally linked all California
police agencies to reveal immigrants -- legal or not -- arrested for violating
laws and subject to deportation.

The action, to be announced Friday morning in Southern California, enables U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, to tag arrests and travel to all of
the state's county jails to pick up immigrants accused of committing crimes.

In essence, local police, willingly or not, have become an arm of the federal
immigration agency.

The fingerprints of everyone arrested by local police are now sent automatically
to an electronic database reviewed by ICE, whose agents go to county jails to
pick up immigrants thought to be deportable, including illegal immigrants and
legal immigrants who may have committed a crime.

Since San Diego County became the first in the state to join in spring 2009, and
the 57 other counties gradually followed suit, immigration agents say the
network has helped bring in and deport 32,645 immigrants from California,
including 23,712 who were convicted of a crime.

The program has the support of most of the Bay Area's nine county sheriffs, who
oversee the local jails. More than 6,400 people arrested by Bay Area police
departments have been delivered to ICE custody in the past year.

"It's more consistent. Fewer people are slipping through the cracks," said
Alameda County Sheriff Greg Ahern.

Other local law enforcement leaders contend the program casts too wide a net,
and erodes the relationship between police officers and the communities they are
supposed to protect.

"It's not a program I'm enthusiastic about because an arrest is not a
conviction," said Richmond police Chief Chris Magnus. "It's clear there's a
very, very broad net of people who are getting swept up."

Magnus was surprised by the figures for Contra Costa County, which joined the
network in April and has the Bay Area's highest number of immigration arrests
and deportations. ICE has picked up nearly 2,000 immigrants from the county
jails in Martinez and Richmond since April, and deported 657 of them by the end
of January. Of those already deported, 367 were convicted of a crime.

In the four-month period ending Jan. 31, only Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego
counties had more immigration arrests than Contra Costa.

The Obama administration considers Secure Communities an important tool in
combating illegal immigration, and the program contributed to record-high
deportations in recent years. ICE has described the program as targeting the
"worst of the worst," capturing immigrants who committed crimes -- known as
criminal aliens -- and removing them from the country.

Immigrant advocates say ICE's own data contradicts that argument. Serious
criminals are a minority among the thousands caught through the system and
deported. They point out that 27 percent of the Californians picked up by Secure
Communities have no criminal records and that some were sent to deportation
proceedings for violations as minor as running a stop sign.

"S-Comm has had a chilling effect on immigrants who would like to report crimes
to police, but understandably are afraid to do so," said Angela Chan of the San
Francisco-based Asian Law Caucus.

Marc Rapp, the acting national director of Secure Communities, countered that
ICE prioritizes the people it chooses to pick up, and even those with no
criminal record might be wanted for overstaying a visa or illegally re-entering
the United States after being deported.

"Clearly we're not arresting and removing everyone we receive a match on," Rapp
said.

The network has the support of Gov. Jerry Brown, who as state attorney general
ratified and repeatedly defended the agreement with ICE to launch the network
statewide.

"Some activist groups have come to talk to me about being a part of this. I
simply told them that it's federal law, and we comply," said Ahern, the Alameda
County sheriff. "And it was the opinion of then-Attorney General Brown that it
was just for public safety, and the interest of justice."

Ahern said Alameda County's jails in Dublin and Oakland have long checked
inmates' immigrant status. Previously, however, "we had to manually scan
documents of people we suspected were foreign-born," he said.

All of the Bay Area counties joined Secure Communities last year, though two --
San Francisco and Santa Clara -- resisted. They eventually were told they had no
choice because the state had an agreement with ICE. This week, six rural
Northern California counties -- Alpine, Del Norte, Lassen, Sierra, Siskiyou and
Trinity -- became the last of California's 58 counties to link up. The agency
plans have to Secure Communities activated nationwide by 2013.

Criticism of the program, especially in the Bay Area, caused consternation among
federal immigration officials, according to internal ICE e-mails made public
last week.

In May last year, responding to questions raised in Santa Clara, one ICE
official wrote of "defusing the situation before it escalates," and another
wrote that Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, "is up in arms about this," according
to e-mails obtained by a group called Uncover the Truth, which opposes the
Secure Communities program.

A branch official with ICE, after giving Santa Clara authorities a more detailed
explanation of the program, e-mailed that "our sense was that they were looking
for political cover." But local officials continued to fight back, and other
states and cities across the country increasingly were joining them.

Amid months of hand-wringing discussions, ICE tried to rework its national
message about the program, and also sought to harden the federal government's
arguments about the program being mandatory. In one undated document that is
described as a "guide to handling sensitive jurisdictions," ICE officials were
advised to create a "ring of interoperability" around local governments that
resist Secure Communities, pressuring the detractors to join their neighbors.

"Deliberative, internal correspondence should not be confused for final policy,"
ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said in a statement about the released documents.
"Because Secure Communities is fundamentally an information sharing partnership
between federal agencies, state and local jurisdictions cannot opt out from the
program, though state and local jurisdictions can opt not to receive the results
of immigration queries."

The top-down process has frustrated some law enforcement leaders.

"Local communities have been largely left out of the decision-making," said
Magnus, the Richmond police chief. "The way that this has been rolled out
nationally has not been done in a particularly open or transparent way, and
there has not been a really thoughtful discussion about the unintended
consequences."

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, introduced a bill Feb. 18 that would
force California to reconsider the language of its agreement with ICE. Ammiano
wants cities and counties to be able to opt in or opt out, and also wants more
statewide protections preventing domestic violence victims and other vulnerable
immigrants from being taken into federal custody.

"California was one of the earliest states to sign on to it, but their
memorandum is very generic," Ammiano said. "What we've agreed to in California
is basically a boilerplate without any protections."


 ecct0223scommMAP

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Californians' financial assessment improving

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


SACRAMENTO -- A majority of Californians say their personal financial status is
stabilizing compared with previous years, but fewer than half say the state
remains "one of the best places to live," according to the results of a Field
Poll released Friday.

In four successive Field Poll surveys between 2008 and 2010, majorities of
Californians -- ranging from 52 percent to 63 percent -- reported declining
personal finances.

In the most recent poll, half those who responded said there had been no change
in their financial status, 12 percent said it had improved and 38 percent said
their financial situation had declined.

The last time Field asked the question, in September, 52 percent said they were
worse off.

About half said California's growing immigrant population has no real impact on
the overall quality of life in the state, compared with about four in 10 who
believe immigrants have reduced the state's quality of life.

Ten percent say immigration has made it better.

Voters who have seen their personal financial fortunes fall in the past year are
more likely to see recent immigration as having a negative effect, as are those
over 40 years old and white, non-Hispanics, said Field Poll director Mark
DiCamillo.

Californians' assessments of the quality of life in the nation's most populous
state have waxed and waned since Field first began surveying opinions about it
in 1967, he said.

In 1978, a record 78 percent said the state was one of the best places to live,
but the number reached its lowest level yet in 1992, when California was in the
midst of another deep recession.

Just a third called it one of the best places to live at the time.

In the poll released Friday, 39 percent said California was one of the best
places to live, 29 percent called the state "nice, but not outstanding," with 20
percent saying it was average. One in 10 voters said California was a poor place
to live.

The poll surveyed 898 registered voters by telephone from Feb. 28 to March 14.
It has a sampling error margin of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 19, 2011 Saturday

Asians pushing immigrants to become citizens

BYLINE: By ??? Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 958 words


LOS ANGELES -- Inspired by a highly publicized Latino naturalization drive,
Asian-Americans are fanning out to help immigrants across California -- and
eventually the country -- become U.S. citizens.

Asian-American advocates say getting more immigrants to naturalize is crucial to
flex the political muscle of the state's fastest-growing ethnic group and give
the community a louder voice. And it has become even more pressing since the
country ramped up immigration enforcement, making citizenship a requirement to
get more government contracts and to avoid deportation if convicted of a crime.

The task is daunting. In California -- home to a third of the country's Asian
population -- dozens of languages are spoken, in addition to dozens of dialects,
and myriad often-competing Asian-language media outlets reach diverse segments.

"Everything we have to do is multiple in terms of the amount of resources and
effort," said Karin Wang, vice president of programs at the Los Angeles-based
Asian Pacific American Legal Center, which is spearheading the drive.

The campaign -- which starts next week with a workshop in the San Gabriel
Valley's sizable Chinese and Vietnamese communities -- is modeled after the "Ya
es hora" citizenship campaign launched by a close-knit partnership between
community groups, Spanish-language media giant Univision and the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

That program, which consists of in-person workshops broadcast on television, has
helped nearly 40,000 people fill out their naturalization applications and
nearly 100,000 get their citizenship questions answered via a bilingual hotline
since 2007.

Since then, Wang said she has often fielded questions about why Asian-American
advocates can't mount a similar campaign, which led her group to draft a plan to
create a naturalization network.

Under the program, Asian-American advocates will host six large-scale workshops
across California to offer free assistance in multiple languages filling out
naturalization forms. The goal is to initially help several hundred immigrants
apply for citizenship, and have local community organizations help hundreds more
after getting training from immigration lawyers on how to process the paperwork,
said Connie Choi, an attorney with APALC's immigrant rights project.

California is home to about 5 million Asians who account for about 13 percent of
the state's population.

Advocates hope to eventually expand the effort to other states with large Asian
communities such as Texas, Georgia, Nevada and Ohio, said Karen Narasaki,
president of the Washington-based Asian American Justice Center, an APALC
affiliate.

Asian immigrants are already more likely to naturalize than Latinos and more
than 60 percent become U.S. citizens within a decade of getting a green card,
according to 2005 statistics from the Department of Homeland Security.

But advocates say many still need help with forms that are closely scrutinized
by immigration officials, especially older immigrants who may have difficulty
with English.

Peggy Santis, a 59-year-old Thai immigrant who became a citizen last month, said
having someone help fill out the paperwork makes a big difference. The insurance
agent from Anaheim applied to naturalize last year after living in this country
for decades when she realized she felt like an American.

"It is better to become a citizen," said Santis, who got help filling out the
paperwork through a local citizenship program.

"You work and you pay taxes and then you don't have a right to vote."

Janelle Wong, a political science professor at the University of Southern
California, said once Asian immigrants naturalize, they are relatively
high-propensity voters.

They are also more likely to get involved in politics in other ways, for
example, by contacting their elected officials.

One of the challenges to getting a naturalization or civic engagement campaign
off the ground in the Asian-American community is that immigrants often identify
more closely with their distinct ethnic background, and often care about
different issues, she said.

"The more ground work that is done, the more of a voice they will have in future
elections," Wong said. "The only issue is: what will that voice be saying? ...
There's not necessarily a shared political agenda across every community."

Advocates say the children and grandchildren of Asian immigrants who arrived
after immigration rules were relaxed in the 1960s have a stronger tie to the
community beyond their ethnic group since they grew up here and many have
married across immigrant groups.

Many immigrants, from all countries, are reluctant to apply to become citizens,
fearing their English isn't good enough. Others are thrown off by the $680
expense -- often more if they seek help from a lawyer.

Narasaki said Asian-Americans have led naturalization campaigns in the past. In
the 1990s, advocates ran a program to help people naturalize when the country
scaled back the public benefits available to immigrants.

But they didn't follow up to see what happened after people naturalized. In the
California drive -- which is funded by $250,000 in private donations --
advocates plan to follow up with new U.S. citizens to make sure they are
registered to vote.

Asian immigrants have shown a strong interest in learning how to become
citizens, though many are skeptical about asking questions of the U.S.
government. That's one of the reasons federal authorities rely on community
organizations trusted by immigrant communities to help promote naturalization,
said Jane Arellano, district director for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services in the Los Angeles area.

"That is how we reach our ethnic communities," she said. "They trust their
leadership."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

East Oakland tenants win judgment against landlord

BYLINE: By Sean Maher Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


OAKLAND -- Tenants in four East Oakland apartment buildings who say their
landlords are negligent and abusive, letting basic utilities like water and
power be shut off and threatening immigrant families with deportation, won a
court judgment against the landlords this month.

Married couple Hong and John Gardner are not longer allowed to collect rent on
the properties and may not evict any tenants until they've brought the buildings
up to a livable condition, according to an order from Judge Gail Brewster
Bereola. They will also have to pay relocation costs for any tenants who are
displaced while the improvements are made.

The buildings contain a total of 55 units and house a variety of tenants,
including immigrants, low-income residents, children and seniors, said Jesse
Newmark, an attorney at the city's Neighborhood Law Corps who represents many of
the tenants.

According to Newmark, the Gardners have subjected their tenants to all manner of
abuses, leaving power and water off for months at a time, letting cockroach
infestations thrive, threatening to have immigrant tenants deported, leaving
units without heaters for as long as four years, illegally evicting tenants and
ignoring numerous legal demands for change.

The city began working with the Alameda County District Attorney's office in
March 2010, when the sheer volume of complaints, involved agencies and ignored
demands prompted Newmark to seek help from a stronger authority, he said.

"It's flabbergasting how nothing seems to do anything," Newmark said. "It's
completely unfair to the tenants who have to live there and suffer through it,
and that's sort of the bottom line."

Hong Gardner painted a different picture, describing herself as the victim of
lawsuit-happy opportunists who move in, pay one month's rent to get in and then
pay nothing more. Eviction hearings can take as long as six months and landlords
cannot collect rent while they are ongoing, so the tenants get more than half a
year's worth of housing for just one month's rent before moving on and
performing the same scam in another property, Gardner said.

In addition, she said, she believes many tenants intentionally damage the
property, tearing up toilets, starting fires and then calling in tenants rights
lawyers to sue her for the poor conditions.

Only about half her tenants are currently paying rent, Gardner said, which has a
drastic impact on her monthly revenue and makes it hard to pay the mortgages on
the buildings, let alone the utility bills.

The buildings are in the Fruitvale district and parts of East Oakland. Their
addresses are 1501 23rd Ave., 2011 Rutherford St., 5142 Bancroft Ave. and 1733
Seminary Ave.

Contact Sean Maher at 510-208-6430.

Tenants in the four buildings subject to the judge's ruling and local tenants
rights attorneys are invited to a seminar at 11 a.m. Saturday at Centro Legal de
la Raza, at 3022 International Blvd. in Oakland. The event will inform tenants
about whether and when they should be paying rent and what other options they
have under this new court order.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 7, 2011 Thursday

Census: Cupertino, Sunnyvale see increases in foreign-born population

BYLINE: By Matt Wilson mwilson@community-newspapers.com

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 533 words


Cupertino and Sunnyvale continue to be a prime spot for immigrants looking to
settle down and live the American dream.

Cupertino's foreign-born population jumped dramatically in the last decade,
making up approximately 47 percent of the city's total population, according to
the 2010 census. In 2000, it was estimated to be at about 22 percent.

Meanwhile, Sunnyvale's foreign-born population rose from 39.4 percent to 43
percent.

"What we have always believed and continue to believe based on the data is that
[Cupertino] is an immigrant community and reflects the vitality of Silicon
Valley," Cupertino city spokesman Rick Kitson said. "Our surveys show that the
No. 1 reason people come [to Cupertino] is its proximity to Silicon Valley jobs
and the schools."

In terms of sheer population, Cupertino is up to about 58,000 residents,
according to Kitson. The rise from about 52,000 residents in 2000 was a
surprise, Kitson said, because there had been little housing and residential
development in the city. However, he added that in the past decade, the Garden
Gate, Rancho Rinconada and Monta Vista neighborhoods had been annexed from the
county and become part of Cupertino. Those neighborhoods were not counted in the
2000 census.

John Pilger, city spokesman for Sunnyvale, said Sunnyvale's total population is
instead tabulated based on projections by the California State Department of
Finance. Population totals from 2009 have Sunnyvale at 138,826 residents. In
2005, it was at about 132,000. Pilger said the city prefers the state
department's numbers because they are updated more regularly.

Most of Sunnyvale's ethnic demographics remained about the same compared to the
2000 census, with the white population dropping to about 40 percent compared to
53.3 percent in 2000. The city's Latin American-born population rose from 17.4
percent to 21.9 percent.

Cupertino's demographics also stayed roughly the same. The white population
dropped from about 50 percent in 2000 to 35.3 percent in the latest data, while
the Asian population accounts for the majority of residents at 55.7 percent, up
from 35 percent a decade prior.

However, Kitson said the statistic does not provide much insight because it does
not account for or distinguish among residents of Indian, Japanese, Chinese or
any other Asian origin.

"It's a rookie mistake to try and draw any conclusion from that," Kitson said.

The median household income in Sunnyvale based on the time the census data was
gathered was $82,622 and Cupertino's was $118,635. In 2000, those numbers were
$74,409 and $100,411 respectively.

Median home prices at the time the information was gathered for the recent
census were $705,200 in Sunnyvale and $948,200 in Cupertino. Those numbers were
$495,200 and $649,000, respectively, 10 years ago.

Both cities occasionally refer to census data for city planning and as
benchmarks for comparison when conducting city studies or contracting for
third-party studies. They also help the government when allocating money.

"Census numbers are important because they are the benchmark for a lot of
grants, both state and federal and private, so it becomes important to both the
city and business community," Pilger said.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 19, 2011 Tuesday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Feisty Hispanic Republican makes waves in Arizona

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 649 words


SAN DIEGO -- In these times, it's not easy being a Hispanic Republican.

Take it from DeeDee Garcia Blase of Scottsdale, Ariz. The 39-year-old
Mexican-American political activist and Air Force veteran is a force of nature.
She is the founder of Somos Republicans, a grass-roots Hispanic Republican
organization that acts as a guerrilla insurgency against the GOP establishment.
After just two years, the group claims 6,000 members in a dozen states.

While the marquee Latino organizations on the left are AWOL in much of the
immigration war because they don't have the stomach to criticize President
Barack Obama for breaking promises and for increasing deportations, Garcia
Blase's group is always spoiling for a fight. It battles against Arizona's
immigration law, which recently sustained another legal defeat when a federal
appeals court affirmed a lower court ruling that struck down most of it, and
copycat versions around the country. It lobbies in favor of the Dream Act, which
would give those immigrant students who Obama claims are not being deported
(when they are) a shot at a legal status. And it pushes for what it is calling a
"Compact with America," which urges lawmakers across the country to engage the
immigration debate in a mature, civilized and constructive way.

For one thing, she lives in the intolerance capital of the United States. The
most recent offering from Arizona: a "birther" bill that would have required
presidential candidates to produce birth certificates. The measure was
mercifully vetoed by Gov. Jan Brewer.

Being a Latino Republican in Arizona is like being a deer in favor of hunting
season. In fact, Garcia Blase is often asked: "How can you be in a party that
hates you?" Answer: Because she loves her party, and she doesn't think the
haters constitute a fair representation of the GOP.

"I started the group so people would know that not all Republicans are like
(Maricopa County Sheriff) Joe Arpaio and (state Senate President) Russell
Pearce," she told me.

Somos Republicans doesn't play favorites. Garcia Blase likes challenging fellow
Republicans as much as tweaking Democrats.

"I put people before party," she said. "The uber-liberals want to cooperate with
us. They say, 'DeeDee has backbone.' Democrat or Republican makes no difference.
If you're trying to hurt my people, I'm going to (expletive) you up."

Lately, Garcia Blase has been taking calls from Arizona Democrats who are upset
that some of their legislative leaders are trying to regain the support of Anglo
voters by trying to out-demagogue the Republicans on immigration. While up to
the task, she complains that this really should be someone else's job.

"Where are the Democratic organizations?" she asked. "I have enough on my plate
going after racist Republicans. I don't have time to police racist Democrats
too."

Garcia Blase rankles the leaders of the Maricopa County Republican Party
because, in media interviews, she states the obvious: that Arizona Republicans
such as Brewer and Pearce are, for short-term political gain, dooming the party
to eventual irrelevance. Just as America is becoming more Latino, the Arizona
GOP is becoming more hostile to Latinos. Not smart.

The maddening part is that the group being turned away by Republicans is
conservative -- on taxes, abortion, gay marriage, defense and other issues. In
1984, when San Antonio-based Hispanic advertising pioneer Lionel Sosa told
President Ronald Reagan that he had to persuade Latinos to vote Republican,
Reagan responded that Latinos were already Republicans but "just don't know it."

Reagan called for legalizing the undocumented in the 1984 presidential campaign
and eventually signed an amnesty bill in 1986. Were he alive today, he probably
wouldn't make it out of the Arizona primary. But, you'd better believe, he'd
have one feisty guerrilla leader at his side.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 25, 2011 Monday

Farmers concerned about federal employment verification program

BYLINE: By Jason Hoppin jhoppin@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 687 words


Farmers are growing increasingly concerned about a federal employment
verification program that could have vast implications for local agriculture,
Santa Cruz County's top industry.

Some Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives have called for expanding
a Department of Homeland Security program known as e-Verify, which allows
employers to immediately check, electronically, a worker's employment status
against federal immigration databases.

But many speculate that the program - if implemented without Congress taking up
the politically sensitive task of providing a path to citizenship for immigrant
workers - would effectively wipe out the county's, the state's and the nation's
agricultural work force.

"To say that we're going to use e-Verify without giving you a legal means to
citizenship, the message there is, 'We want (consumers) to buy foreign food,'"
said Thomas Nassif, president and chief executive officer of Irvine-based
Western Growers, adding that U.S. agriculture "couldn't survive."

United Farm Workers spokeswoman Maria Machuca shares a similar assessment.

"If you deport all those farm workers, it's basically the collapse of the
agricultural industry," she said.

During a hearing of the House Government Oversight Committee held last week in
Salinas, growers aired longstanding complaints about burdensome regulations to
Rep. Darrell Issa, a Vista Republican who chairs the committee, and Rep. Sam
Farr, a Carmel Democrat. The meeting included several local agricultural groups,
who also voiced concern about e-Verify.

"It's just going to cause some problems," said Carolyn O'Donnell, a spokeswoman
for the Watsonville-based California Strawberry Commission.

In operation for several years, e-Verify is still voluntary for most employers.
But it is up for reauthorization next year, and with Republicans recently
retaking control of the House, some are calling for it to be expanded, including
House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican.

Smith has been a vocal opponent of illegal immigration, disputing that U.S.
citizens aren't interested in working the fields. He cites figures that 50
percent of agricultural workers are here legally - a figure many dispute.

"Statements that Americans are not willing to do these jobs demean the
hardworking Americans who actually do this work on a daily basis," Smith said at
a January hearing. "Citizens and legal immigrants should not be forced to
compete with illegal workers for jobs."

Some say the percentage of undocumented agricultural workers is closer to 80
percent. And while employers are required to file employment status forms and
check two pieces of employee identification, it is widely acknowledged that
those papers are frequently borrowed from others or forged - a fact that Nassif
said everyone understands but no one will do anything about.

"Why a government would prefer that we hire them illegally is beyond my
conception," Nassif said.

An alternative guest worker program known as H2-A is fraught with problems and
delays, growers say. Since crop readiness changes from year to year, a program
heavy on paperwork and restrictions, such as a requirement to provide foreign
workers with housing, is not workable in the agricultural industry, they say.

Grower groups, including the Strawberry Commission and Western Growers, as well
as the United Farm Workers and many California lawmakers, including Farr and
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, have thrown their support behind a slate of immigration
reforms known as the AgJOBS Bill.

The bill allows workers who've already worked the fields to pay a fine in
exchange for a path to citizenship. They would have to continue to work the
fields for a period of time, and would be required to start learning English.

As long as AgJOBS passes, many growers have no specific concern with e-Verify -
just on its implications for the agricultural work force. But AgJOBS isn't
currently under consideration in Washington, D.C.

"We're always optimistic and we know that sometimes things can change," Machuca
said. "We know legislation takes some time before people realize that it's the
right thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 28, 2011 Thursday

Latino congressman says Obama administration has failed on immigration

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 362 words


OAKLAND -- U.S. Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., blasted the Obama administration
Thursday night for deporting record numbers of people from the country and for
breaking promises made to immigrant voters during the 2008 presidential
campaign.

"He came to our neighborhoods, he came to our communities, he gave speeches,"
Gutierrez said, interspersing Spanish and English on a visit to an East Oakland
school.

A predominantly Spanish-speaking crowd of several hundred people packed into the
gymnasium of the Cesar Chavez Education Center to hear Gutierrez speak. Some
shared stories of how immigration arrests had divided their families.

"When I was 15 years old, I felt my life was over," said Richmond resident
Bianca Rojo, describing how her parents were deported to Mexico nearly six years
ago.

Gutierrez, who hails from the president's home city of Chicago, began his speech
by quoting directly from Obama's 2008 campaign statements about fixing an unjust
immigration system and ending raids that split families apart. Then, Gutierrez
explained how he felt those pledges had not been met.

Gutierrez said the immigrant community made a mistake when "we attached our
fight for rights to a political group." He told listeners to ignore those who
say Latinos should prioritize maintaining Democratic loyalty over standing up
for human rights.

The Obama administration has said it cannot act unilaterally in overhauling the
complicated immigration system, and that reform must come with congressional
action. Gutierrez countered Thursday that the Obama administration's own lawyers
wrote a memorandum explaining how they could use executive power to delay
certain deportations of students and other priority groups.

"The president cannot legalize their status, but the president can protect them
and say, `The students cannot be deported,'" Gutierrez said.

Gutierrez said the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, of which he is a member, is
also scheduled to meet with Obama to talk about immigration on Wednesday. The
Democratic congressman has been visiting 20 cities, including seven in
California, as part of a national campaign to pressure Obama to act more
urgently on immigration matters.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday

Massive immigration protest on San Jose streets

BYLINE: By Lisa M. Krieger lkrieger@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 510 words


SAN JOSE -- More than 2,000 pro-immigration and labor demonstrators mobilized in
San Jose on Sunday in a powerful display of the persistent dream of American
citizenship, despite federal inaction. The outpouring of demonstrators was
organized by a loose coalition of community, church and labor organizations
calling themselves the May 1st Coalition.

On the fifth anniversary of a 2006 National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice,
turnout in San Jose, Los Angeles and other cities was significantly lower than
for that historic event, when about 1 million demonstrators marched in scores of
cities across the nation.

San Jose's march was equally passionate, and more ethnically diverse, compared
with the original event, with American Indian, Chinese, Muslim, Jewish, Catholic
and Protestant activists joining in song, chants and placard-waving. They were
joined by clusters of union activists who vowed to fight the spread of
anti-labor efforts seen in Wisconsin and elsewhere.

"They all have perseverance in common," said Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave
Cortese, who has spoken at all five San Jose rallies. "There's frustration, but
not resignation.

Calling for legal protection for illegal immigrants and workers' rights,
demonstrators took part in a three-mile march that ended with a rally at San
Jose City Hall.

"People are definitely frustrated that Obama and Congress have not delivered on
what was promised," said organizer Cesar Juarez, who was an 18-year-old
Evergreen Community College student during the first march. He now holds a
degree from San Jose State and is pursuing a career in community organizing.

"There is definite excitement about next year's presidential election," he said.
"And if everyone today talks to two to four family members, we've influenced
thousands."

Samina Sunas of American Muslim Voice said the Prophet Muhammad instructed his
followers to give half their food and water to newcomers.

"There should be no 'illegals' here," said Yasmin Vanya, also of American Muslim
Voice. "We're here to show our support on behalf of the whole Muslim community,
to ask President Obama to honor his election campaign promises."

Meanwhile, millions of workers and immigrant laborers around the world took to
the streets to celebrate May Day, demanding rights for those "who toil in the
sun" while others pocket the profits.

Underlying Sunday's gatherings was seething anger over the rising cost of living
and growing disparities between rich and poor -- exacerbated by the global
economic squeeze.

In Turkey, some 200,000 protesters flooded a central plaza in Istanbul, making
it the largest May Day rally there since 1977, when at least 34 people died and
more than 100 were injured after shooting triggered a stampede. Turkish unions
weren't allowed back until last year.

Across Germany, about 423,000 people took to the streets to demand fair wages,
better working conditions and sufficient social security, the country's unions'
umbrella group, DGB, said.

Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Lisa M. Krieger at
408-920-5565.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday

Thousands at immigration protest on San Jose streets

BYLINE: By Lisa M. Krieger lkrieger@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; Peninsula; Special Reports; Education;
Health; Science; News; Local; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 464 words


More than 2,000 pro-immigration and labor demonstrators mobilized in East San
Jose on Sunday in a powerful display of the persistent dream of American
citizenship, despite federal inaction. The outpouring of demonstrators was
organized by a loose coalition of community, church and labor organizations
calling themselves the May 1st Coalition.

On the fifth anniversary of a 2006 National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice,
turnout in San Jose, Los Angeles and other cities was significantly lower than
for that historic event, when a million demonstrators marched in scores of
cities across the nation.

But San Jose's march was equally passionate, and more ethnically diverse,
compared with the original event, with Native American, Chinese, Muslim, Jewish,
Catholic and Protestant activists joining in song, chants and placard-waving.
They were joined by clusters of union activists who vowed to fight the spread of
anti-labor efforts seen in Wisconsin and elsewhere.

"They all have perseverance in common," said Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave
Cortese, who has spoken at all five San Jose rallies. "There's frustration, but
not resignation.

"We've been asking for five years. These are hardworking men and women, and we
need to create a path to citizenship," he said. "The federal government has
failed to tackle this."

Calling for legal protection for illegal immigrants and workers' rights,
demonstrators met at the intersection of King  and Story roads, then streamed
down King and turned onto Alum Rock Avenue, ending their three-mile march with a
rally at San Jose City Hall.

"People are definitely frustrated that Obama and Congress have not delivered on
what was promised," said organizer Cesar Juarez, who was a mere 18-year-old
Evergreen Community College student during the first march. He now holds a
degree from San Jose State and is pursuing a career in community organizing.

"There is definite excitement about next year's presidential election," he said.
"And if everyone today talks to two to four family members, we've influenced
thousands."

Amid a sea of Mexican flags, clergy members offered voices of support.

"It is a test of a society, how it treats its immigrants," said Rabbi Melanie
Anon of Shir Hadash synagogue in Los Gatos. The Rev. Jose Pedigo of San Jose's
St. Julie Billiart Parish said, "We are the foundation of change. "... We are
all in this together."

Samina Sunas of American Muslim Voice said the Prophet Muhammad instructed his
followers to give half their food and water to newcomers.

"There should be no 'illegals' here," said Yasmin Vanya, also of American Muslim
Voice. "We're here to show our support on behalf of the whole Muslim community,
to ask President Obama to honor his election campaign promises."

Contact Lisa M. Krieger at 408-920-5565.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 4, 2011 Wednesday

At the Spindrift - 'Boxcar' by Silvia González highlights innocence along the
devil's highway

BYLINE: By Jean Bartlett Pacifica Tribune arts correspondent

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News; Local

LENGTH: 537 words


"Is it a crime to improve your life?" asks the character Manuel in the play
"Boxcar"   surely a question pondered by anyone who has left a homeland in
search of the possibilities provided by a free society.

Written by Silvia Gonzalez S. and currently on stage at the Spindrift (through
the nonprofit's edgier theatre group "Stage 2"), "Boxcar" (El Vagon) takes the
audience on a journey of five immigrants from "south of the border," who are
hoping for a better life, for themselves and their families, in the United
States. These men travel northward in a steel-walled boxcar based on the advice
of their "coyote," a border term for a shadowy figure who guides illegal
immigrants, generally for a hefty fee, past U.S. immigration authorities.

Once the boxcar door seals, and the train travels the tracks to hope, these
fleeing individuals relax a little and get to know each other. They find
commonality in singing songs and discussing dreams. Their worries, close to the
surface, keep them at a constant struggle with fear and hope. Anger for some is
a problem but there is one guy, Manuel, who has crossed the border so many
times, it is hard not to relax with him as he shows his absolute savvy in
telling the greatest b.s. stories. When train trouble keeps the car sealed on
the track for far too long and the heat from the desert bears down on the
windowless riders, the audience must face with every man onboard that boxcar, a
thinning line between hope and death.

Directed with passion and honesty by David Acevedo, "Boxcar" is a condensed
version of a number of impossibly difficult real-life stories researched by the
playwright which present the brutal truths of pursuing the American dream from
the Mexican side of the U.S. border. The play is about the human spirit,
bribery, compassion, the unquestioned life, humor despite the odds, prejudice,
and the slippery slope of moral ambiguity. With the exception of an unnecessary
lead-in video, the Stage 2 production moves at the speed of desire.

The five men in the boxcar are played by Ramon Bustos (Manuel), Glen Caspillo
(Pepe), Sam Valenzuela (Noel), Jason Bustos (Huero) and Mauricio Suarez
(Francisco). The border guards are played by Steve Ortiz (Roberto) and Gary
Pugh-Newman (Bill).

Ramon Bustos as Manuel is a powerhouse   loaded with personality and loaded with
life. Sam Valenzuela as the young college boy Noel is smart and innocent. Jason
Bustos as Huero is cagey, a tiger ready to spring. Glen Caspillo as Pepe is
fatherly and body tired. Mauricio Suarez as Francisco is quiet and thoughtful.

Gary Pugh-Newman as border guard Bill explodes with a dichotomy of rage at
refugees and a desire to not see too deeply. Steve Ortiz as border guard Roberto
is the compassionate eyes for the needed change.

Acevedo's direction is crisp, playful at times, and pulsing   like the music he
chose to take those men up the tracks.

What: "Boxcar" (El Vagon), by Silvia González S. Directed by David Acevedo.

Presented by: Stage 2.

Where: Pacifica Spindrift Theatre, 1050 Crespi Drive.

When: May 6 and 7 at 8:30 p.m. May 8 at 2 p.m. Doors open 30 minutes before
show.

Admission: Free. Donations welcome. Seating limited. Call: 359-8002. (
www.pacificaspindriftplayers.org .)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo by Jean Bartlett Stage 2 director David Acevedo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Santa Cruz council votes against opt-out of immigration reporting system

BYLINE: By J.M. Brown jbrown@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 701 words


SANTA CRUZ -- The City Council on Tuesday voted not to support state legislation
that would allow local authorities to opt out of a federal immigration
reporting-and-detention program opponents say is designed to deport undocumented
residents rather than just violent offenders.

The 4-3 vote demonstrated a shift in the council majority that has been under
way for the past several years, with city leaders now less likely to weigh in on
controversial national issues in favor of focusing on problems within the city's
jurisdiction.

The decision not to support Assembly Bill 1081, which would require local
jailing authorities to decide whether to participate in the Department of
Homeland Security's Secure Communities program, also stands in contrast to the
city's status for three decades as a so-called sanctuary city, where resources
won't be used toward deportation.

The city is not directly subject to the Secure Communities program because the
Sheriff's Office is the agency charged with relaying fingerprint information
from people booked in County Jail to state and federal officials who check their
immigration status. Still, dozens of the bill's supporters left shaking their
heads Tuesday after a series of symbolic resolutions failed to bring the split
council together.

"What it says to me is that the council does support injustice and racial
inequality in Santa Cruz," Krysta Villeda, a fourth-year UC Santa Cruz student.

Villeda was among several dozen people holding signs that expressed sentiments
such as "No One is Illegal" and "Justice for All." One of them, Karina
Cervantez, a daughter of immigrants, said, "For someone to tell me that fear
doesn't exist" of police working with federal authorities, "we feel it."

Mayor Ryan Coonerty and Councilmembers Lynn Robinson, David Terrazas and Hilary
Bryant said they were reluctant to pass a resolution by Councilman Tony Madrigal
that urged county officials not to detain people on immigration holds unless
they are suspected of a serious or violent crime and have access to an
immigration attorney.

Although the county Board of Supervisors has supported revising Secure
Communities, the council majority said it did not believe the city should advise
the sheriff on the federal program.

"This is not a good way to do policy," Coonerty said about the resolution
Madrigal authored in concert with a local advocacy group called Immigration
Action Group.

Instead, Coonerty offered a general statement urging federal, state and county
officials "to protect public safety and civil liberties." The council
unanimously passed it, though Councilwoman Katherine Beiers said it was largely
meaningless considering the council often takes more positioned stances on other
state legislation.

Beiers, Madrigal and Vice Mayor Don Lane voted in favor of Lane's follow-up
motion to simply support AB 1081 without adding language about when the sheriff
should comply with immigration holds. But the majority also voted it down.

Explaining her vote, Bryant said, "Our country is in desperate need of complete
immigration reform. We can't have a policy that asks them to do jobs and then
throw them out. But it needs to start at a different level."

Opponents of Secure Communities say the policy was designed to pursue violent
felons but has been used as a tool for deportation of nonviolent undocumented
residents.

Daniel Dodge Jr., son of Watsonville's mayor, said Secure Communities is
"eroding trust between the immigrant community and local law enforcement"
because immigrants who are victims of or witnesses to crimes will fear
deportation if they cooperate with police.

However, resident Michael Becker urged the council not to support the opt-out
option, saying cooperating with immigration authorities helped track drug
dealers who frequented the Pogonip, as well as suspects in the 2009 gang-related
slaying of teenager Tyler Tenorio.

"For public officials to attempt to undermine the law of our land seems
problematic at the least," Becker said.

Chief Kevin Vogel said the drug dealers and homicide suspects were not
apprehended through the Secure Communities program, but rather a separate
operation on gangs conducted by local police and immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 11, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion: On border debate, Obama plays to both sides of the fence

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 613 words


SAN DIEGO -- This week, in El Paso, Texas, President Barack Obama again pledged
to fix a broken immigration system, but not without an assist from Republicans.
And again, he bragged about cracking down on illegal immigration. We're a nation
of immigrants, but also a nation of laws.

Blah, blah.

It's a song that Latinos have committed to memory, and they usually hear it
whenever Obama speaks to Latino audiences on or near Mexican holidays. Happy
belated Cinco de Mayo!

In a more honest rendition, Obama would acknowledge that, for Democrats, the
utility of the immigration debate is to give Republicans a chance to alienate
Latino voters.

Ten days before the speech, I was sitting in a pew in a barrio church in Los
Angeles waiting for remarks by Rep. Luis Gutierrez. The Democratic congressman
from Chicago has been urging the White House to develop a fairer and more humane
immigration policy. To push this message, he went on a 20-city tour: "The
Campaign for American Children and Families."

The tour kicked off with a news conference. Several members of Congress,
including Rep. Mike Honda, D-San Jose, have said that administration officials
called them beforehand to dissuade them from attending. Once the tour was under
way, the White House scheduled a showy reception for Latino celebrities,
possibly to distract the media.

There was no distracting the 150 or so angry people in the church. What angered
them most were the deportations.

Obama -- who once bemoaned when communities are "terrorized" by Immigration and
Customs Enforcement raids, "when nursing mothers are torn from their babies,
when children come home from school to find their parents missing" -- is on
track to deport more illegal immigrants than any U.S. president since Dwight D.
Eisenhower and "Operation Wetback" in 1954. That crackdown resulted in the
removal of nearly 1 million people. The Obama administration deported about
800,000 people in its first two years.

I asked Gutierrez why he thinks Obama has developed a knack for deportations.

"He responds to the restrictionists," Gutierrez said. "If you hear the
restrictionists, they say: 'We will win through attrition. Just enforce the
law.' Well, every discretionary tool that this president has used helps them
reach that goal."

And, in return, Obama gets to establish his credentials as a tough guy on
illegal immigration in time to run for re-election.

As someone who believes that illegal immigrants should be deported, what
concerns me is that Obama is being cynical and dishonest. For example, after
suing Arizona over the principle that enforcing immigration law is the job of
the federal government and not local or state law enforcement agencies, the
administration is using those agencies as a force multiplier and scooping up
illegal immigrants arrested by them to boost the deportation tally.

Gutierrez wants Obama to spare two groups of people with an executive power
known as "parole-in-place" -- illegal immigrants who have U.S.-born children,
and college students who might have qualified for legal status under the Dream
Act.

Obama has refused to do either of these things, insisting that he lacks the
legal authority to stop deportations.

What Obama really lacks is nerve. It's an article of faith at the White House
that nothing loses an election faster than being soft on illegal immigration. So
the administration is extra hard.

That strategy wasn't lost on the people in the church, many of whom bought into
Obama's promise of "change" three years ago. As I exited, on a table near the
door, I noticed a handwritten sign with a message: "Mr. President, Real Change
Requires Courage."

Amen.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 18, 2011 Wednesday

Elderly Berkeley man recovers scam money

BYLINE: By Doug Oakley Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 247 words


An 80-year-old Berkeley man who was scammed out of $53,000 by Canadian con
artists got $15,000 of it back after he contacted authorities.

The man, who Berkeley police and federal investigators in the U.S. and Canada
are not naming, first sent a check for $38,000. The con artists then demanded he
send another $15,000. He sent the second check, but then decided to contact
police who intercepted the check in the mail.

No arrests have been made.

Finding the check in the mail was aided by Berkeley police and U.S. and Canadian
federal agents working on a joint operation to combat telemarketing fraud, said
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lori Haley.

Involved in the joint operation were the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police and the Canadian Security and Investigation Services.

A statement from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said a man from Quebec
called the Berkeley man and told him he won seventh prize in a sweepstakes, but
first he needed to send money to pay the taxes on the prize, which the victim
promptly did.

The statement said con artists often pose on the telephone as sweepstakes or
lottery officials, relatives, lawyers, government representatives, police
officers and accountants.

Anyone suspecting such a crime can call 888-495-8501 or go to
www.phonebusters.com .

Doug Oakley covers Berkeley. Contact him at 510-843-1408. Follow him at
Twitter.com/douglasoakley

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 19, 2011 Thursday

Elderly Berkeley man recovers scam money

BYLINE: By Doug Oakley Berkeley Voice

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 249 words


An 80-year-old Berkeley man who was scammed out of $53,000 by Canadian con
artists got $15,000 of it back after he contacted authorities.

The man, who Berkeley police and federal investigators in the U.S. and Canada
are not naming, first sent a check for $38,000. Then the con artists demanded he
send another $15,000. He sent the second check, but then decided to contact
police who intercepted the check in the mail.

No arrests have been made.

Finding the check in the mail was aided by Berkeley police and U.S. and Canadian
federal agents working on a joint operation to combat telemarketing fraud, said
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman Lori Haley.

Involved in the joint operation were the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, the U.S. Postal Inspection Service, the Royal Canadian Mounted
Police and the Canadian Security and Investigation Services.

A statement from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said a man from
Quebec called the Berkeley man and told him he won seventh prize in a
sweepstakes, but first he needed to send money to pay the taxes on the prize,
which the victim promptly did.

The statement said con artists often pose on the telephone as sweepstakes or
lottery officials, relatives, lawyers, government representatives, police
officers and accountants.

Anyone suspecting such a crime can call 888-495-8501 or visit the web at
www.phonebusters.com .

Doug Oakley covers Berkeley. Contact him at 510-843-1408. Follow him at
Twitter.com/douglasoakley

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2011 Monday

Children of recent immigrants lead America's scientific competitions

BYLINE: By Lisa M. Krieger lkrieger@mercurynews.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Communities; Peninsula; Special Reports; Education; Health;
Science; News; Local; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 755 words


Quantifying what has long been obvious in Silicon Valley, a new analysis shows
the majority of America's top high school science competitors are the children
of new immigrants.

The report, released Monday by the nonpartisan National Foundation for American
Policy, found that about two-thirds of the finalists at the Intel Science Talent
Search -- the Nobel Prize of high school science -- were born to parents who
hailed from either China or India.

Only 12 of 40 finalists at this year's competition -- a national contest based
on solutions to scientific problems -- had parents who were born in America.

"The benefit America derives from the children of immigrants in science and math
is an additional advantage the country reaps from being open to talent from
around the world," said author Stuart Anderson, director of the organization and
a former head of policy at the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The results are evident in Silicon Valley classrooms: Children of immigrant
parents, particularly those with skills-based H-1B visas, are abundant in the
top tiers of academia.

"You see it here in Silicon Valley. It's like planting a vigorous sapling and
giving it Miracle-Gro," said Menlo Park father Vivek Wadhwa, a visiting scholar
at UC Berkeley's School of Information and a native of India.

"Here you take the cream of the crop," from their birthplace abroad, "then put
them in some of the best schools in the world "... these students are really,
really competitive and work very hard, inspired by their parents, and represent
all the American ideals."

The winner of this year's competition was a home-schooled youth of American-born
parents from Danville named Evan O'Dorney.

But the largest number of Intel finalists -- 16 -- had parents who hailed from
China. Ten were born to Indian parents. There was also one finalist whose
parents were from Iran, and another from South Korea.

To put the numbers in perspective, Chinese comprise only 1.0 percent and Indians
0.8 percent of the American population. So if contest winners were proportionate
to their population, there would only be one child of an Indian or Chinese
parent every 2.5 years -- not more than 10 in one year.

Of the finalists' immigrant parents, almost all came to the United States on
H-1B visas, which allow highly skilled foreign nationals to work here. Most H-1B
visa holders hold at least a bachelor's degree, and many have advanced degrees.

Three of Silicon Valley's 2011 finalists were born to parents from India: Amol
Aggarwal of Saratoga; Rohan Mahajan of Cupertino; and Nikhil Parthasarathy of
Mountain View. One local finalist, Andrew Liu of Palo Alto, has parents from
China.

"It doesn't surprise me if you look at the quality of people coming here," said
Wadhwa, who is also director of research in the Center for Entrepreneurship and
Research Commercialization at Duke University. "They tend to be highly educated.
And the vast majority have STEM-related (science, technology, engineering and
math) degrees."

For instance, both of Nikhil's parents have Ph.D.s. His father works at
Microsoft, studying signal processing. His mother, an organic chemist, teaches
chemistry at the Harker School.

There is another characteristic linking families here on H-1B visas: the
motivation to regain status at the top of the economic ladder, lost when they
immigrated to the U.S., Wadhwa said.

"The families are upper echelon. They leave their country at the top of the
social ladder, then come here at the bottom," he said. "As an immigrant, you are
treated differently, and you have to struggle, and work harder, to catch up
again.

"They watch their parents work hard and struggle and then they gain the same
motivation," he said. "They seek to prove themselves to their families."

Having a foot in more than one culture may inspire new ideas and interests in
young people, noted author Anderson.

Finalist Rohan Mahajan, whose Indian father works for Cisco, researched methods
of improving the efficiency of photo-electro-chemical cells, which could improve
solar energy. Something much more simple also motivated him.

"I got interested in energy production,'' he said, "because whenever we went to
India the power always went out."

Contact Lisa M. Krieger at 408-920-5565.

ORIGINS of YOUNG SCIENTISTS

A new analysis of 2011 Intel Science Talent Search finalists shows the vast
majority have parents who are new immigrants. Here are their countries of
origin:
China: 16
United States: 12
India: 10
Iran: 1
South Korea: 1

Source: National Foundation for American Policy.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Saratoga High School senior Amol Aggarwal, a finalist in this years
annual Intel Science Talent Search, is cited in the study.
Andrew Liu sits in a science classroom at Gunn High School in Palo Alto on
Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2010. Liu, a 16-year-old senior at Gunn, will travel to
Washington, D.C., next month to compete for a $100,000 award in a prestigious
national science competition. (Kirstina Sangsahachart/ Daily News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Today's Willow Glen atmosphere harkens back to its European
immigrants

BYLINE: By Cookie Curci

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 727 words


The community of Willow Glen is an eclectic mix of houses and people that
reflect a unique blending of styles and cultures. Much of this is due to the
fact that our area was the chosen home for many European immigrants who came to
America during the great migration in the late 19th century and early 20th
centuries.

The different styles and backgrounds they brought from Europe grace our area
with family heritage, pride and memories. Subsequent generations followed the
traditions and heritage of their families while at the same time assimilating
into the American/California culture. Between 1927 and 1936, our small community
of Willow Glen was even incorporated as a city of its own.

The community was made prosperous by the area's fruit orchards, which for the
most part were owned and operated by Italian immigrants.

Like most of the country at the turn of the century, San Jose was the melting
pot of numerous ethnic groups, in particular the Italian Americans whose
children followed their parents' dream, climbing out of poverty and searching
for a better way of life.

Like most Italian American residents, I have a keen awareness and reverence for
things past, as well as a feeling of pride in my present community. The
neighborhood I grew up in has undergone many changes and upheavals. There have
been some losses of our Old World ways and landmarks, and that causes me to
cherish those that still remain. My dad, Rocci Curci, was the proprietor of the
Pronto Pup creamery.

For over 30 years Dad operated the unique creamery that not only served
hamburgers, sodas and fries, but also spaghetti, ravioli and meatballs. If those
walls could talk, they would tell how many local families passed through the
shop's familiar doorway, how many kids grew up sitting at its counters, and of
the long leisurely afternoons spent visiting this haven for local foot traffic.

La Villa Deli is one shop that provides a glimpse of old Willow Glen's downtown.

This aromatic, bustling shop has long been a part of Willow Glen's main street
scenery. Longtime residents can remember the deli's original owners, Frank and
Anna Giacomelli, who wanted to go into business for themselves after World War
II. Anna's brother, Louis Pasquinelli, suggested a delicatessen, since he and
his family had enjoyed fine Italian cuisine at the Giacomelli home.

So it was only natural that they encouraged them to open a restaurant filled
with their tasty recipes. In 1947, Frank and Anna took the big leap, picked out
a vacant lot and built a shop, launching the La Villa Deli at 1319 Lincoln Ave.
In 1967, the Giacomellis sold their business to Ed and Rita Palestro, who ran
the deli for 20 years. Today it is owned and operated by Patty and Dave
Bertucelli, who continue to operate in small town fashion, preserving its rich
ethnic background and original recipes.

The deli's outstanding foods have been bringing customers to Lincoln Avenue for
more than 50 years. Many customers praise the foods: "They have the best ravioli
you've ever tasted. It melts in your mouth," is often heard from customers
chatting among themselves. Older residents say La Villa Deli keeps Willow Glen
feeling like the old Italian community it once was. And it's one of the few
stores they can remember from their youth.

There is and always has been a rich ethnic mixing in our community. As children
we all played together at the corner vacant lots; we raced our bikes along the
sidewalks, speeding past the tall maple trees that lined the avenues; we
organized games, picked out our leaders and established our own rules.

So many decades later, and I still treasure the memory of my old neighborhood
and the tiny moments in time shared with these old friends and neighbors. Over
the years we've lost some of our landmarks and houses, but most of my family's
ancestors who came here almost a century ago have remained in the area.

They carry on traditions and replace those that have gone. New faces and new
places will, in time, leave their own imprint on the passing generation. It's my
hope that our Willow Glen community will keep its unique balance of shops and
traditions, as well as its historical blending, and that it will continue to
thrive and endure, preserving the quaintness and ambiance of that little corner
of the world we call home.

Cookie Curci can be contacted at cookies2011emails@comcast.net .

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday

Richmond gives nod to city ID cards

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 525 words


RICHMOND -- Since moving to this city from her native Mexico 15 years ago,
Gloria Munguia has raised six children and established a network of friends, but
has had no way of proving that she lives here.

Without government-issued photo identification, Munguia, an undocumented
immigrant, cannot borrow a book from the library or cash a check. Last year, she
had to plead with a pharmacist to fill her pregnancy medication.

But Munguia and others like her are about to get an assist from the city in the
form of a community identification card that will allow residents to open bank
accounts and gain access to municipal services regardless of immigration status.


The City Council unanimously endorsed a municipal ID proposal Tuesday, and will
vote on a final ordinance July 5.

In recent years, at least five cities have approved these kinds of
identification programs. Cards generally include an official photograph and city
imprint.

So that it does not become a scarlet letter for illegal immigrants, the card is
designed to appeal to all residents by combining access to libraries, pools,
public transportation and other services.

Richmond is placing special emphasis on issuing cards to the indigent,
transgender people and runaway youth, as well as immigrants.

The Richmond police department is supporting the program on the grounds that it
will give mainstream-shy people who fear detection or deportation more
confidence about reporting crimes. The city already has a policy forbidding
local law enforcement or other officials to assist with immigration enforcement.

Nearly a third of Richmond's 104,000 residents are immigrants, according to the
2009 American Community Survey. Many do not have legal immigration documents,
advocates say.

About 300 residents poured into Civic Center Plaza ahead of Tuesday's meeting
and several said that while they themselves had driver's licenses, they support
the program as a way to make the community safer for everyone.

Critics, a few of whom spoke before the council Tuesday, argue that the local
identity cards will entice illegal immigration and undermine border security.

The cards, which will pay for themselves, do not grant legal residency, driving
privileges or the right to work.

About 40 percent of Richmond is now Latino, according to the 2010 U.S. Census.

City leaders tabled an ID card proposal in 2008, saying they wanted to wait
until after a council election and watch how San Francisco implemented its
program.

The San Francisco ID initiative faced its share of legal challenges, but Oakland
passed a similar program this fall with little fanfare.

Supporters say the Richmond ordinance shows that the Bay Area is coming together
to help fold undocumented immigrants into the fabric of the community. They have
pledged to make San Pablo the next stop on the ID bandwagon.

On Tuesday, Munguia watched a band of mariachis play outside of City Hall as
little boys swirled underfoot, playing intricate games of tag.

"It makes me feel hopeful, for my children more than anything," she said. "We
need to be able to identify ourselves."

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her at Twitter.com/hannahdreier

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday

Opinion: Deportation policy is making local communities less safe

BYLINE: By Tom Ammiano Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 651 words


Before entering politics, I was a schoolteacher for decades, and I always taught
my students how important it is to tell the truth. So it has amazed me to watch
a government agency like ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) ignore that
basic lesson repeatedly with its misleadingly named "Secure Communities" program
to deport undocumented immigrants.

From the beginning, ICE has misled Californians about the harmful effects of the
program. Despite ICE's claims that it targets only serious offenses, the facts
tell a very different and very painful story.

Before anyone has their rightful day in court, the program automatically
cross-checks fingerprints of everyone arrested with immigration databases. The
program then separates immigrants from their families and pressures local police
to turn them over for deportation. ICE's own records underscore the
inconsistency here: Seven out of 10 Californians deported under the program
weren't convicted of anything or faced minor charges such as traffic violations.

Fortunately, the truth is coming out. The governors of Illinois, New York and
Massachusetts have suspended or declined to participate in Secure Communities,
calling it ill-conceived and misguided. Their decisions followed damaging
revelations regarding ICE's deceptive communications.

One example showing ICE's lack of transparency: ICE approved information for
Santa Clara County about opting out of S-Comm by phone, not in writing, giving
ICE "plausible deniability" in case things "went south" with the county,
according to a May 2010 internal email. One year later, the Department of
Homeland Security's own Inspector General announced it will investigate S-Comm
over allegations of deception.

As a result the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General
recently announced it will investigate Secure Communities over misinformation
about whether states could opt out of the program.

I can tell you what the investigation will find. The program has damaged
relations between police and immigrant communities and has not achieved the
goals it was designed to achieve. It is having a devastating impact on
communities.

Immigrants want to live in safe communities, but Secure Communities discourages
victims and witnesses of crime from coming forward due to the fear of family
separation and deportation. Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said the
program faces a "crisis of confidence" and can be a "...detriment when it causes
the vast majority of the immigrant population, who are here as nonviolent,
non-crime-committing individuals, to lose trust in police."

ICE has changed its tune several times about whether local governments -- who
never had a say in designing the program -- could opt out of it. Community
groups had to sue to break through the information stonewalling. The thousands
of documents they obtained suggest ICE manipulated answers to questions from
Congress, media, and local officials, leading U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose,
and U.S, Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J., to call for an investigation.

It's time for California to rein in this rogue agency and its misguided program.
That's why I introduced the TRUST Act, AB 1081, which will be heard in the
Senate Public Safety Committee at 9:30 a.m. Tuesday in the State Capitol.

It offers practical solutions to boost public safety and prevent victims of
crime from being targeted by this flawed program. It empowers counties moved by
concerns for their residents' safety to opt-out of the program and requires
jurisdictions that opt-in to have a strong plan for preventing and documenting
any racial profiling.

Our police are our greatest asset to our public safety. The TRUST Act will make
sure they can stay focused on that job while respecting the rights of all
Californians.

TOM AMMIANO (D-San Francisco) represents the 13th District in the California
Assembly. He wrote this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday

Opinion: Federal agencies are going after fraudulent immigration advisers

BYLINE: By Tony West, Alejandro Mayorkas and Edith Ramirez Special to the
Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 690 words


It is a lesson that many victims of immigration services fraud learn too late:
The wrong kind of help can actually hurt.

Across the country, scam artists are targeting immigrant communities --
deceiving and defrauding hardworking individuals who are trying to navigate the
system. Sometimes known as "notarios," they pose as lawyers or offer
"professional" assistance with applications for immigration benefits -- all in
exchange for large upfront fees. They may advertise on the Internet or at a bus
stop, or find clients via word-of-mouth. But these fraudsters are not licensed
or qualified to offer the services they advertise. And unsuspecting clients who
invest their trust, time and money end up with nothing.

One victim of this type of scam was "Aaron," a U.S. citizen and a member of the
U.S. Army in the Los Angeles area who wanted to help his father, who had lived
legally in the U.S. for many years, gain permanent residence status. Aaron was
hopeful when someone recommended an immigration lawyer. When they met, the
person gave Aaron an official-looking business card and a contract. He said he'd
take the case for $500, assuring Aaron that it was an easy one.

When his father's day in court came, however, the lawyer was nowhere to be
found. Only after his father lost his case did Aaron learn he had been dealing
with a man using a fake name and impersonating a licensed attorney.

Fighting this kind of fraud is at the heart of the Combating Immigration
Services Scams Initiative, a new multi-agency partnership announced last week
by the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security and the
Federal Trade Commission. We will be working together to educate people about
how to avoid immigration services scams, empower victims to come forward and get
help, and take action against the fraudsters themselves. By sharing information
and aligning priorities, we will greatly increase our effectiveness at stopping
these predators.

As part of this initiative, over the past year, U.S. Attorneys' Offices across
the nation have vigorously prosecuted dozens of cases like Aaron's. In addition,
the Department of Justice's Civil Division, through its Office of Consumer
Protection Litigation, is pursuing civil and criminal cases against people who
make false and misleading promises. The justice department is also working to
train more attorneys to help victims of immigration services fraud while helping
people get honest and competent legal help from the start.

At the same time, Homeland Security's U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
has entered into an agreement with the FTC to use the FTC's Consumer Sentinel
database, a secure online database, as the central repository for consumer
complaints and law enforcement leads about immigration services fraud. By
funneling critical data into one place, the agreement will greatly enhance
information-sharing among federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.

Immigration Services has worked diligently with stakeholder groups in seven
partner cities -- Los Angeles, Fresno, San Antonio, Detroit, Baltimore, New
York, and Atlanta -- to develop materials to alert immigrant communities about
these scams, inform them about the legal process and provide information about
where to find legitimate legal advice and representation.

Despite these efforts, we still need your help.

Before paying for immigration services, check www.uscis.gov/avoidscams and learn
how to verify any claims being made. And if you are already a victim of someone
posing as an immigration "professional," report the crime to your state attorney
general and to the Federal Trade Commission at www.ftc.gov/complaint . Working
together, we can stop these scams, prosecute those who are responsible and make
sure people can find the legitimate help they need.

TONY WEST, who grew up in San Jose, is assistant attorney general for the Civil
Division of the Department of Justice. ALEJANDRO MAYORKAS is the director of
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services of the Department of Homeland
Security. EDITH RAMIREZ is a member of the Federal Trade Commission. They wrote
this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 13, 2011 Monday

Once charged with 100 criminal counts, San Jose restaurant owners feel
vindicated

BYLINE: By Mark Gomez mgomez@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 1163 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 7/9/2011, page A2)
A story and accompanying photo caption about a controversial immigration case
did not make clear the differences between the initial indictment of Paula Luna
Alvarez and Carlos Del Carmen and their final plea. The two San Jose restaurant
owners originally faced a 108-count indictment, including allegations of money
laundering, wire fraud and transporting illegal aliens. Eventually most of those
charges were dropped, but 39 acts of Social Security fraud were combined into a
single charge of conspiracy, to which the couple pleaded guilty. They received
five years of probation. Attorneys for Alvarez and Del Carmen said the charge of
conspiracy to commit Social Security fraud rests on a number of letters the
couple received from the Social Security Administration, indicating that Social
Security numbers provided by employees of their restaurants did not match the
records on file.

The FBI portrayed Paula Luna Alvarez as the leader of a human-trafficking
operation who forced Mexican immigrants to work as modern-day slaves in her East
San Jose restaurants. They claimed she coerced one worker to have an abortion
and kidnapped another employee's baby and shipped the child to Mexico.

Yet, on Monday, nearly three years after dozens of federal agents raided her
Rose Garden home and later charged her and her husband with 100 criminal counts
-- from money laundering to wire fraud to transporting illegal aliens -- Alvarez
and her husband, Carlos Del Carmen, left federal court with all but one of the
charges dropped.

The couple pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit Social Security
fraud and were sentenced to five years of probation.

How could what seemed like a success story of a woman who started by selling
tamales in the Tropicana Shopping Center parking lot turn so tragically wrong?

"You wonder why they went after these people," said defense attorney George
Benetatos, who interviewed about a dozen witnesses who contradicted claims made
by prosecutors. "This case should have had better judgment at some point in the
investigation. Certain parts of the story were just fantastic."

Benetatos and family friends say the FBI trusted former employees who had it in
for Alvarez, including one she said she fired for selling fake Social Security
cards out of her tamale cart.

A probation report recommended a two-year prison sentence for the couple, but
federal Judge Ronald Whyte instead opted for probation. Whyte said the plea deal
led him to believe that the government acknowledges it couldn't prove the
immigration offenses -- which brought a swift and emphatic denial from the
prosecutor.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas O'Connell said the government could have proved
its case but agreed to the plea deal for myriad reasons, including the "massive
cost" of paying for witness depositions in Mexico. He later declined further
comment.

Vilified by press, FBI

Alvarez and Del Carmen, who have four children, said they feel grateful justice
prevailed.

"We're happy with the system," Alvarez said in Spanish. "It allowed us to
investigate and demonstrate our innocence."

The family was vilified in the Spanish-language press, and business suffered at
their El Naranjo restaurant and El Mezquite Taqueria.

The FBI accused Alvarez and Del Carmen of routinely smuggling Mexican men, women
and children into the U.S. to work in the restaurants, according to court
documents. At one point, they faced charges of money laundering, wire fraud,
harboring and transporting illegal aliens and Social Security fraud.

Prosecutors alleged the couple forced some of the immigrants to work 17-hour
days and live in squalid conditions in Alvarez's garage.

The investigation began after a former employee, Humberto Contreras Soreano,
told San Jose police about the alleged smuggling, according to court documents.
He told authorities that the workers were recruited from the same small town,
Puebla, where Alvarez's mother owned the local store. Some of the workers were
minors and most were told they would be obligated to work until the debt for
paying coyotes for smuggling them into the country was settled.

Alvarez said Soreano was upset about being fired after she learned he was
selling fake Social Security cards.

Benetatos traveled to Mexico and interviewed numerous people, all of whom
refuted the allegations, he said. People who allegedly had been smuggled into
the country by Alvarez told Benetatos they instead made their own way here and
only met Alvarez after applying for a job at her restaurant.

One of the accusers said Alvarez sent his 16-year-old sister's newborn baby back
to Mexico because the infant was interfering with the sister's work. Benetatos
interviewed the woman in Mexico; she said she brought the baby back to Mexico
because the brother felt she was not taking care of the child.

Benetatos also interviewed the woman who allegedly was forced to have an
abortion. The woman said she had an ectopic pregnancy that required the
termination of the pregnancy and provided medical records from O'Connor Hospital
in San Jose to verify her account.

Benetatos said the "wild accusations" should have alerted prosecutors their
witnesses were not credible.

"I honestly believe they were not guilty" of any of the accusations, he said.

Allegations' human cost

Federal prosecutors had accused Alvarez of wiring more than $1.5 million to a
Latin American music distribution company, Ritmo Latino. Prosecutors later
acknowledged the accusation was a mistake and dropped the money-laundering
charges.

The FBI refused to comment on the case.

Following her arrest in 2008, Alvarez spent more than four months in jail until
a family friend put up $500,000 for her bond.

"They thought they had a big fish," said Fernando Gonzales, a friend and former
landlord who put up his duplex as security for a $500,000 bond. "They spent
millions of dollars going after this big fish, which turned out to be fake."

In the end, Alvarez and her husband admitted to just one criminal count.

The guilty plea stems from Alvarez receiving multiple "no-match" letters from
the Social Security Administration telling her that Social Security numbers
provided by her employees did not match records on file. Essentially, Alvarez
was hiring people who were using false social security numbers on their job
applications. In court papers, Alvarez's lawyers wrote that her "apparant
failure" to tell employees to respond to the Social Security Administration
exposed her to criminal liablity.

The couple has incurred attorney fees and expenses of $95,000 and borrowed
$60,000 from family and friends to pay their legal bills. They no longer own
their home and are now staying with family.

Now, Alvarez hopes the end of her legal woes will give her a chance to get back
to concentrating on her restaurants.

"Now I will do what I know: Cook food and take care of my customers," Alvarez
said. "I'm very happy I'm still standing and we're going to continue."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Lt. to Rt.) Attorney Ben Benetatos, is thanked by his clients Carlos
Del Carmen and wife Paula Luna Alvarez, of San Jose, after they were both
sentenced convicted of only one count of Social Security Fraud,out of 108
federal charges, at the United States Federal Courthouse in San Jose Monday June
13, 2011. (Maria J. Avila Lopez)
(Lt. to Rt.) Paula Luna Alvarez, of San Jose, is congratulated by her Attorney
Alex Park, while her husband Carlos Del Carmen joins in the joy, after they were
both sentenced convicted of only one count of Social Security Fraud,out of 108
federal charges, at the United States Federal Courthouse in San Jose Monday June
13, 2011. (Maria J. Avila Lopez)
(Center) United States District Attorney Thomas O'Connell, who only was able to
prove one count of Social Security fraud on Paula Luna Alvarez, of San Jose, and
her husband Carlos Del Carmen, out of 108 counts. He was photographed outside
the Federal Courthouse in San Jose after Alvarez and Del Carmen were both
convicted of only one of the federal charges, at the United States Federal
Courthouse in San Jose Monday June 13, 2011. (Maria J. Avila Lopez)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 15, 2011 Wednesday

Watsonville to offer green cards to foreign investors

BYLINE: By Donna Jones djones@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 414 words


WATSONVILLE - For decades poverty-stricken immigrants have come to Watsonville
to work in the surrounding strawberry fields.

Tuesday, the city took a step toward attracting more well-heeled foreigners - or
at least their money.

The City Council on a 4-1 vote agreed to support a program that enables
foreign-born investors to obtain green cards in exchange for funding commercial
ventures in the United States.

"I don't see a downside," said Councilman Lowell Hurst. "It attracts wealth and
creates jobs."

The two-decade-old EB-5 Visa program requires an investment of $1 million in a
project that creates at least 10 jobs. But in areas of high unemployment, such
as Watsonville, the required financial stake is cut in half.

The program offers potential immigrants a path to permanent residency and
citizenship if after two years they can prove the jobs are permanent.

The council's vote was in support of creation of the California Sunshine
Regional Center, which would market the program to investors, primarily in Asia,
and pool proceeds to fund projects in six counties: Santa Cruz, San Mateo, Santa
Clara, Merced, Alameda and San Joaquin.

There are more than 240 centers across the United States, but none covering
Santa Cruz County.

Federal officials must approve the creation of the center, and Watsonville's 27
percent unemployment rate is expected to be a point in its favor.

City Economic Development Manager Kurt Overmeyer said investment isn't
guaranteed but participation provides the city with another tool to generate
business activity. Being named in the application with specific projects will
give the city a leg up, he said.

City projects could include development of the Manabe-Ow business park off
Ohlone Parkway or in the downtown, conversion of the former Metro bus depot at
Sakata Lane to commercial purposes, or reuse of a former aluminum manufacturing
facility on Lee Road.

Councilman Manuel Bersamin and Councilwoman Nancy Bilicich were not present for
the vote.

Vice Mayor Eduardo Montesino dissented, saying the program unfairly favored some
immigrants.

"I am an immigrant," Montesino said. "People are put in the front of the line
just because they have money to invest. It is a principle I would not support."

Councilman Oscar Rios, also an immigrant, said he understood Montesino's
position, but Watsonville needs jobs.

"This is an effort to stimulate the economy," Rios said. "I talk to a lot of
people who are barely surviving. They are losing jobs and barely making it.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 4, 2011 Monday

Mercury News editorial: San Jose needs feds' help to rein in gang violence

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 519 words


Short of the death of an officer, the exodus of 66 young San Jose cops laid off
Thursday had to be one of the saddest things ever experienced by the department
-- and one of the most unsettling for San Jose neighborhoods. Nobody pretends
that the elimination of more than 150 filled and vacant officer positions,
however necessary to deal with the budget deficit, will make the city safer.
Gang violence already has been spiking here, perhaps in part because word of
continued reductions in the police force has spread.

Grasping for ways to combat the violence, including 14 gang-related murders so
far this year, police Chief Chris Moore is bringing in an elite team of federal
gang investigators to help put a lid on the surge. Unfortunately, this has
raised anxiety among San Jose's undocumented immigrants and their families,
friends and advocates: The federal unit is under the Department of Homeland
Security, whose separate immigration enforcement arm lately has been more
aggressive in seeking out and deporting people who came here illegally.

But the San Jose Police Department has a long history of separating itself from
immigration enforcement so that residents can trust officers, call them for help
when they're victims of crime and come forward when they're witnesses. This wise
policy makes everyone, citizens or not, safer. Will the department abandon it
overnight?

Moore says he will not, and we believe him.

Shane Folden, the acting special agent in charge of the federal gang unit in
Northern California, says the two agents coming to San Jose will follow the same
practices regarding immigrants as city police -- "absolutely." Moore adds: "I
will be watching them like a hawk."

Let's give them a chance.

The neighborhoods with the most to gain from stepped-up gang prosecutions are
the very ones where immigrant families, documented or not, cluster. Gangs don't
rule the Almaden Valley or Silver Creek streets. It's in areas like East and
Central San Jose where kids fear getting beaten up or caught in crossfire as
they walk home from school, and families sleep on the floor for fear of stray
bullets shattering windows in the night. It may be America, but it is hardly the
good life.

Zach Friend, a spokesman for the Santa Cruz Police Department, says activists
there were worried when the federal gang team was invited in a year ago. But by
last fall, with more than 40 gangsters arrested and huge volumes of drugs and
weapons taken off the streets, nobody was complaining.

San Jose has to get its finances under control and rebuild its police
department, including the gang unit, as well as restore library hours and other
programs that offer kids a safe haven. Part of that is pension reform, which the
police union agrees is needed. At some point voters may be willing to pay more
in taxes to bring their police department closer to a proper size for a city
like San Jose: As of this month it has 100 fewer officers than it had two
decades ago, while the city has 200,000 more people.

If the feds can help city neighborhoods, including immigrant communities, stay
safer in the meantime, bring them on.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

Herhold: Why we should find a way for Sergio C. Garcia to practice law

BYLINE: By Scott Herhold Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Columnists; Columnists

LENGTH: 538 words


Sergio C. Garcia has played by all the American rules of hard work and success.
He went to junior college, Chico State and then law school. He passed the bar
exam in July 2009 and applied to be admitted as a lawyer.

He has just one problem: He is an undocumented immigrant, born in Mexico and
brought to this country by his parents when he was 17 months old. A state bar
panel is considering whether to accept him.

Because this fight is about the right to practice law, it will inevitably be
waged on legal grounds, which I'll get to.

But first, let's consider what's right and wrong. This one is simple: Barring
unforeseen problems, this guy deserves to get his license.

If ever there were a poster figure for the Dream Act, which would give a path to
citizenship to people brought to this country as children, it would be Garcia.

And it is more than passing strange that the State Bar of California, which did
not ask the question about immigration status before 2008, is now essentially
being dragooned into acting as an arm of ICE (U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement).

Garcia didn't respond to my attempts to reach him. But the Daily Journal, a
legal newspaper in San Francisco, reported that Garcia is being sponsored for
legal status by a relative and has already waited 17 years for a green card.
Given the long wait for Mexicans, he estimates it will take another five to 15
years to get one.

Here's the moral argument: Garcia had no choice when he came here as a toddler.

He grew up in a new land through no decision of his own to disobey the law. As
he told the Daily Journal, "What was my moral duty at 17 months?"

He has done what we believe immigrants should do -- study hard and attempt to
improve himself. Sending him back to Mexico now would mock all the reasons we
spent money to educate him here in America.

The governing federal law is the 1996 Personal Responsibility and Work
Opportunity Act, which says that illegal immigrants, with some exceptions, are
ineligible for a professional license issued by a state or local government
agency.

Technically, there's a question about whether the California Supreme Court, the
ultimate authority behind the bar, is an "agency" as defined by the law. This is
deep in the weeds, a debate that invites sleeping sickness for anyone who is not
a lawyer.

Being in this country illegally, particularly when you have been brought here as
a child, is not an act of "moral turpitude," the sonorous legal language that
describes an act disqualifying someone from the bar.

That the State Bar of California never even asked the immigration question until
a few years ago suggests that it did not see it as terribly relevant.

The Journal reports that a clutch of illegal immigrants has been accepted to
practice law.

I'm on record as being skeptical of comprehensive immigration reform, which
faces too many forces invested in the status quo to succeed.

But this is not comprehensive. It's one man's plight. And we ought to be a big
enough and generous enough land to find a way to let him practice his calling.

Contact Scott Herhold at sherhold@mercurynews.com or 408-275-0917.

Infobox Text Black. See how a period ends the black text.
More black, comma ends the black.
Black: colon ends it, too.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 15, 2011 Friday

San Jose activists demand meeting with ICE agents helping cops with anti-gang
campaign

BYLINE: By Sean Webby swebby@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 637 words


As anger in the immigrant community grows against San Jose Police Chief Chris
Moore's alliance with the federal immigration agency, a broad band of advocacy
groups gathered Friday to demand a meeting with two ICE agents who recently
began working with the Police Department to fight gang violence.

Activists said they want direct assurance that the agents will not be involved
in deporting law-abiding residents as the ICE agents help the city combat rising
gang violence.

"Now, more than ever there needs to be a culture of trust between immigrant
populations and the Police Department, and this program will invariably damage
that trust," said Jazmin Segura, of Services, Immigrants, Rights and Education
Network, or SIREN.

Moore has repeatedly vowed the agents will

But the distrust and fear of ICE in the immigrant community is so deep that
activists say Moore's assurances aren't enough.

It was unclear Friday if a face-to-face meeting is forthcoming. Moore, who was
in Washington, D.C., on business, texted the Mercury News to say he was asking
for such a meeting. Lori Haley, an ICE spokeswoman, said that officials were
"open" to such a meeting, but nothing had been decided.

The pointed demands were made during a news conference held by groups such as
SIREN, People Acting in Community Together, Silicon Valley De-Bug and sponsor
Sacred Heart Community Services, which joined forces to announce their shared
disappointment.

Protests began soon after the Mercury News reported that Moore had invited the
agents from the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration Control and
Enforcement department to help combat the spike in gang violence. The agents
would bring free and powerful federal resources into a department that just laid
off 66 officers. But many leaders in the immigrant community, already wary of
ICE, are furious with the feds for forcing local municipalities to cooperate
with a fingerprint sharing program they believe leads to racial profiling and
deportation of noncriminals.

So now Moore, who has made a point of saying his officers do not cooperate with
federal deportation efforts, faces a difficult choice. He can continue to employ
the two agents and potentially lose more credibility and trust in the community
he has worked so hard to win over. Or he can back down and lose important
weapons in his efforts to stem the rising tide of bloodshed in the neighborhoods
whose residents are so upset with him.

A prayer vigil earlier this week and Friday's news conference underlined the
community discontent he must face down. People held protest signs Friday,
including one that said in big block letters: "ICE OUT, FUERA."

Speakers echoed these sentiments.

Miranda Flores said her brother was deported two months ago after an arrest.

"For people to come and tell me to trust the police, it's like making fun of me.
They were the ones that took my brother," Flores said.

Flores added the community wants to believe in Moore and work with him.

"But he has to know that for us, things are not OK. Our families are being
divided. We are scared. And a lot of times we are victims of crime or witnesses
and we don't have the trust to report that."

Contact Sean Webby at 408-920-5003.

Both of the male agents, who have not been identified by police or their home
agency, have "extensive investigative backgrounds and have previously
participated in cases targeting transnational criminal street gangs," according
to ICE. Both currently serve on San Francisco Homeland Security Investigations
Special Response Team.
One of the agents is a graduate of Michigan State University, where he majored
in criminal justice. The second received a business management degree from San
Jose State and holds a master's degree from SJS in criminal justice.
When asked about them, Chief Chris Moore said they are "excellent" agents

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

Mercury News editorial: Stop the visa mills

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 517 words


Mercury News reporter Lisa Krieger's story on Sunday -- "Universities or visa
mills?" -- revealed an alarming development in higher education. Sham colleges
all over the country, including in Silicon Valley, are luring thousands of
unqualified foreign students with the promise of education and a good job, then
providing them with a visa and little else.

Krieger's reporting shows that federal regulations governing the 10,000 colleges
that admit foreign students are too easy to flout. They need to be tightened,
and enforcement needs to be stepped up. Several senators, including California's
Dianne Feinstein, have proposed stronger oversight.

The most egregious example of the problem here, Pleasanton's Tri-Valley
University, has been shut down, but many other schools attract students with
misleading or fraudulent claims.

Abuses like these -- and the government failures that contribute to them -- sap
public support from legitimate programs that provide educational and work
opportunities to exceptional immigrants who can enrich this nation. It would be
tragic if outrage over sham colleges further weakened our commitment to weaving
the talents of immigrants into our national fabric.

The country issued more than 950,000 visas to foreign students in 2009, a jump
of more than 55 percent in five years. The intent of the program was to bring
students to places like Stanford, where they can acquire the knowledge and
connections to contribute to American life -- not to end up working as a liquor
store clerk.

Legitimate efforts to lure smart immigrants could face further risk because of
botched enforcement at visa mills.

Opposition to expanding the number of H-1B visas for highly skilled workers
already runs high. With unemployment above 9 percent, it's hard to argue for
raising the cap now, but it will be essential to the innovation economy. A
recent study showed that the vast majority of the country's top high school
science competitors were children of H-1B visa holders. America needs these kids
-- and their parents.

The Dream Act also faces opposition at the federal level that now could
intensify, even though it's unrelated to the visa mills. The act would make
citizenship possible for children who were brought here illegally if they
qualify and want to attend U.S. universities or serve in the military. These
kids have worked hard and done nothing wrong. It's a waste to educate them
through high school and then cast aside their talents.

Feinstein and her colleagues propose that the Department of Homeland Security
and U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services develop a list of warning signs for
colleges breaking visa rules, then investigate the schools at highest risk. That
would be a good start.

But the most obvious need is the simplest: Enforcement agencies need to
communicate. Apparently, the State Department was approving thousands of visas
for Tri-Valley students even though Homeland Security had authorized only 30 a
year.

Cranking out visas for unqualified students harms the young people themselves
while it makes a mockery of U.S. immigration rules. It's got to stop.



LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 22, 2011 Friday

Opinion: Navarrette: A sorry record on immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 725 words


SAN DIEGO -- President Barack Obama is returning to the scene of the lies.

He is scheduled to speak in the next few days at the annual meeting of the
National Council of La Raza, one of the nation's largest Latino advocacy groups.
The event, in Washington, is expected to draw 25,000 people.

It was during a speech to this same group in July 2008 that then-candidate Obama
played the role of simpatico to the Latino community. He condemned immigration
raids where "communities are terrorized," declared that it was time for a
president who "won't walk away from something as important as comprehensive
(immigration) reform," promised that he would make it "a top priority" in the
first year of his presidency, and insisted that the United States "cannot and
should not deport 12 million people."

Now, Obama has become what he once criticized. He walked away from immigration
reform, continued the raids that terrorize immigrant communities and deported
nearly 1 million people. And he has done this not to clear the way for
comprehensive reform, but because he sees a political benefit to being tough on
illegal immigrants. In the United States, most of the undocumented population is
from Mexico, and -- as the head of an immigrant advocacy group told me bluntly
-- "no one ever lost an election by being hard on Mexicans."

Lately, more and more Latinos are returning the favor and being hard on Obama. A
recent Gallup Poll found Latino support for the president has fallen to 52
percent, and only about two-thirds of those who support him plan to vote for him
again in 2012.

I'm surprised the figure is that high. Here are just a few things that the
president and his administration have done that hurt, insulted, or disappointed
Latinos:

It began with appointments. When Bill Richardson withdrew his nomination for
commerce secretary, Obama missed the chance to replace him with another Hispanic
-- which would have given Latinos a historic third Cabinet post. He chose as his
chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, who butted heads with the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus and helped keep immigration reform off the Democrats' agenda. And he
installed Cuban-born Carlos Pascual as ambassador to Mexico despite the fact
that the diplomat had scant experience with Latin America. Pascual was a
disaster, lasting less than two years.

In navigating his way through the health care debate, Obama quickly threw
illegal immigrants overboard. In an August 2009 radio address, he reiterated
that providing health care coverage to illegal immigrants was not part of his
plan and "has never even been on the table." Nor are illegal immigrants even
allowed to purchase coverage under Obama's plan.

While claiming to be a full partner with Mexico in a drug war that has resulted
in the deaths of more than 34,000 Mexicans, White House officials scuttled a
proposal from the Justice Department that would have required gun-shop owners on
the U.S. side of the border to report bulk sales of high-powered semi-automatic
rifles -- the preferred weapons of drug dealers. More recently, the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives -- in a sting it called Operation Fast
and Furious -- let nearly 2,000 guns flow into Mexico where they fell into the
hands of drug traffickers; three-fourths of those weapons are still unaccounted
for.

Finally, on immigration,  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has
boasted in speeches that the administration has deported more people than its
predecessors. During the 2010 census count, the administration broke with
tradition and refused to put a moratorium on raids that might make illegal
immigrants less likely to step forward and be counted. U.S. Customs and Border
Protection prevented 4-year-old U.S. citizen Emily Ruiz from re-entering the
United States after a trip to Guatemala; instead, Ruiz was sent back to
Guatemala. Obama signed an enforcement-only border security bill into law,
undermining the push for comprehensive immigration reform. And pressured by Rep.
Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., to issue an executive order that would stop at least
some deportations, Obama refused.

I don't suppose any of this will make it into Obama's remarks to the National
Council of La Raza. But this is part of his record with regard to Latino
constituents. And it's nothing to be proud of.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 29, 2011 Friday

July 30 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 1168 words


President Barack Obama addressed the annual meeting of the National Council of
La Raza on Monday and blamed the Republicans for blocking any progress on
immigration reform in the United States. He said he needed a dance partner here
(immigration reform) and the floor is empty, indicating that Republicans did
nothing to help further the cause.

There is no one to blame other than the president himself for not moving this
issue along. He campaigned diligently in 2008 for what he called finding a
pathway for immigration reform but has remained silent in moving ahead with a
solution. It is only when he can find an audience like La Raza that he will
speak so stridently about the need for action. Otherwise, he is doing nothing.

Is it treason to sacrifice your country's economy for political gain? I think it
is. But why not ask Eric Cantor, John Boehner et al., why the debt limit must be
increased "in steps"? Do they really believe it is for the good of the country?
Don't make me laugh.

Here is advice for the 11 to 18 percent of citizens not possessing a photo ID
(Opinion, July 28). Budget $25, go to the DMV and pose for a photo. You'll
receive a beautiful, color, government-issued ID that works at the airport, too!
Maria Teresa Kumar and Hector E. Sanchez complain of a bill requiring voters to
prove they are who they say they are. The nerve of that bill! We are required to
provide ID for a host of lesser transactions each day. Comparing this to the
poll taxes and literary tests of the Jim Crow era really cheapens the argument.
You would think there was a bill requiring proof of citizenship at the polls.
Most citizens seeking to preserve the integrity of the electoral process would
be glad to do so.

I read your report on Saratoga parks. What bald and dry patches they have
created within areas of green. All this in the name of saving "tons of water."
What is the percentage of water saved as compared with the park as a whole? The
utility of a bed of grass does not lie on how many people walk on it; a bed of
green grass is something beautiful to be seen and enjoyed. It cools your eyes,
mind and soul. I feel these patches are an eyesore. Saratoga does not have as
many parks as other cities. So whatever we have should be kept green so everyone
can come and enjoy them.

Thank you for running the story (Page 1B, July 23) about the new Sunnyvale
children's dental clinic. How tragic, according to Dr. Brindha Subramanian, that
it's common for 6-year-olds to need multiple root canals. Anyone who has had
tooth pain can attest to its severity, and one can only imagine the suffering of
a child needing eight root canals at once. Your paper has run several editorials
in favor of fluoridation of the local water supply. Why are we still debating
the known merits of fluoridation? How many more children need to suffer? If
stories like this don't motivate action on the part of the Santa Clara Valley
Water District to move forward on fluoridating our local water supply, what
will?

Morris Chassen (Letters, July 29) asks us to consider "entitlements" that
benefit the wealthiest in America, such as tax loopholes. While I agree with him
in principle, the term "entitlements" has become confused beyond recognition. An
entitlement is a benefit you are entitled to by virtue of paying into the system
and satisfying some condition, such as attaining a certain age. Subsidies and
tax loopholes are not entitlements; they are favors bestowed by government for
some reason (not always, but often, corrupt). The fact that our entitlements
such as Social Security are now on the chopping block, while tax benefits and
subsidies favoring giant corporations and the very rich are not, should have us
all up in arms. Make no mistake: When John Boehner talks about entitlements
causing the present debt crisis, he is not only lying, he is also talking about
your Social Security and Medicare benefits. Why some welcome this fleecing is
beyond me.

James G. Christenson

I was disappointed by Scott Herhold's piece on Barry Chang (Page 1B, July 24).
His column would have been more helpful if it had been about the issue of
Lehigh's plans to expand their open pit mine, despite a long list of
environmental violations, instead of focusing on personality. I have been
associated with Barry through Bay Area Clean Environment, and I know him to be
passionate, tireless, knowledgeable, honest and, yes, at times aggressive. Barry
campaigned on his promise to fight Lehigh, and he has done just that with
positive results. We should all support a politician who will take a risk for
the good of the community. On important issues in life, I'll take substance over
style any day.

Scott Herhold's column on Cupertino Councilman Barry Chang's behavior
demonstrates a zealous, "single factor analysis" politician bent on forcing an
outcome on the Lehigh Southwest Cement Quarry even though it has met its
environmental responsibilities. As a previous school board member and serving
council member, he should know that his abrasive and intimidating behavior is
inconsistent with civil discourse.

It seems that Councilman Chang is the "odd man out" in this enclave of civility
and competence. There is a book titled "All I Really Need to Know I Learned in
Kindergarten" that revolves around treating ourselves and others with kindness
and exploring everything with wonder. Councilman Chang, I found it helpful, as
might you.

A couple of days ago the AB 130 section of the California Dream Act was passed.
Although AB 130 is only one small section of the California Dream Act, it is one
small step toward a better future for immigrant college students.

As a daughter of an immigrant father, I grew up hearing my father lecture me on
the importance of an education and the opportunities that it would provide.
Nobody should ever be deprived of the right to an education, and with the help
of the California Dream Act, the number of people who do not have access to
financial assistance for an education will be lower.

I hope to see favorable improvement and change in the area of education for my
immigrant college friends so that the future of our country is built by strongly
diverse and enriched minds.

Melissa A. Rueda

The "tea" in tea party stands for "taxed enough already." It doesn't stand for
"end debt already." I'm confident that most of these tea party adherents had no
objections to the Bush tax cuts and the Iraq War, two policies that contributed
to a massive increase of the national debt. Conservatives, tea party or
otherwise, never cared about deficits until Barack Obama was elected president.
The debate about the debt ceiling shows that the tea party has more allegiance
to maintaining low taxes than reducing the debt. When Obama and John Boehner
were negotiating a deal that would have reduced the debt by more than $4
trillion in the next decade, tea party Republicans balked. Instead, they
insisted that loopholes be maintained for large corporations and the rich keep
their historically low tax rates.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 1, 2011 Monday

Apricot pickers have similar immigration histories

BYLINE: By Joe Rodriguez Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Special Reports;
News; Local; Columnists; Columnists

LENGTH: 1018 words


One of these days the last apricot orchard in Silicon Valley will be gone and so
will the last apricot picker. But for now we still have Clemente Garcia, who
picks apricots for Andy Mariani, whose father arrived from Europe 70 years ago
to pick -- what else? -- apricots.

Mariani, who owns and operates Andy's Orchard in Morgan Hill, waxed historic the
other day on the immigrant stories of his Croatian father and Mexican employee.

"It's a sort of parallel history," Mariani said under a canvas awning on his
spread south of San Jose. "The two stories are similar."

Occurring a century apart, the complex forces that drove Croatian migration and
the latest Mexican wave to this country were vastly different. Then again, an
immigrant is an immigrant. When it comes to motivation, there isn't much
difference between an apricot picker in 1931 and an apricot picker in 2011.

Garcia and Mariani sat for a while after work last week to compare histories.
Andy's Orchard grows high-quality fruits, the only way to make a profit on 55
barely rural acres. Having harvested early summer Serafin Royal and Blenheim
apricots, it was time for Gold Dubloon peaches and Freckle Face nectarines.

While it was plain to Mariani what his father and Garcia share in common,
Garcia, who is the silent type, seemed a bit puzzled by the notion. After all,
he didn't get here in the same way as Andy's father, Joseph Mariani.

"I got caught in the desert in Arizona and they sent me back," Garcia said,
sitting on wooden crate in the packing shed. "That was on my first attempt to
cross the border."

One of 10 children from a farmworker family in rural Guanajuato state, and with
only a third-grade education, he had figured out that picking crops in the U.S.
beat picking crops in Mexico. He also had some uncles in America who could find
him work.

He sneaked in on his second try, near Tijuana, in 1984. He was 20 years old.

In 1931, another young man in his 20s became desperate and left.

As the eldest son, Joseph Mariani stood to inherit his father's house, vineyard
and other properties on Vis, a remote Croatian island on the Adriatic Sea. But
father wasn't going to die anytime soon.

"My father was making a pittance working hard every day, not able to save
anything," Andy said. Joseph's wife, Simila, encouraged him to follow his uncles
-- who inherited squat in Croatia -- to America and a farm town named Cupertino.

His uncles arrived near the tail end of the Croatian wave, which peaked in 1910
and ended with the start of the first World War. Most of them were young men
looking for work and who would bring their wives and children in time. About
421,000 Croatian-Americans live in the United States, with California having one
of the largest populations, at 39,000, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

One of Joseph's uncles had an orchard and hired him to pick apricots.

"Be he still wasn't making enough to save money to bring his wife and kids,"
Andy Mariani said. "He was just another farmhand!"

Although Joseph had only a second-grade education, he learned that fishing paid
more. He signed on to trawl for sardines in Monterey Bay, salmon off Alaska and
tuna in Southern California. The money was so good, Joseph was able to bring
over his wife and two children after only two years and to buy a small orchard
and house of their own. The house is long gone, replaced today by a steakhouse
standing directly across from a company named Apple.

Joseph and Simila Mariani -- whose cousins founded the Mariani Packing Co. --
put four sons through college. Andy returned to agriculture after college and
worked a brief stint as assistant city manager for Saratoga.

"I came back and realized this was where I belonged."

Clemente Garcia recounted his own story, pointing out some differences in Andy's
parallel history.

Unlike Joseph Mariani, he didn't have an address to report to. Instead, he
banged around Southern California, Arizona and New Mexico picking crops.

"That was very hard," he said, "even for a young man like me."

Luckily, an uncle knew a labor contractor for Andy's Orchard, who found Garcia a
job there in 1985. After narrowly escaping an immigration raid, Garcia caught
the biggest break in his life -- amnesty from the Immigration Reform and Control
Act of 1986. The law granted him and about 3 million others legal residency and
the ability to bring over their spouses and children.

He didn't have to live in the shadows anymore, but climbing the social ladder
the way Joseph Mariani did was going to be impossible. The sardine fishing was
done and the valley's last remaining orchards were beyond his reach.

"The only way for us to get ahead is education," he said. "For my children, not
for me. I'll just keep working in the fields."

The Marianis offered him a permanent job and low rent in a mobile home on the
farm. Clemente settled in and sent money home to his parents. After winning
legal residency under the Immigration Reform and Control Act, he returned to
Mexico and married his sweetheart, Margarita.

She stayed put in Guanajuato while he lived and worked at the orchard, returning
home twice. Finally, after two decades living apart and a considerable amount of
money paid to immigration lawyers, he was able to bring his wife in 2008 and
then each of their three children once they finished elementary school.

The oldest son, Jose, 21, attends Gavilan Community College and still works at
Andy's. He actually earns a higher wage than his father because he's bilingual,
does paperwork and operates forklifts and tractors.

The Garcias have two children at Live Oak High School, Arcadio and Maricela, who
plan on attending college. So does the youngest, 10-year-old Maria.

She rode up on her bike when Garcia turned the conversation to retirement. He
never became a U.S. citizen, figuring he'd return home someday and live well on
U.S. Social Security benefits. He and Margarita could visit their future
grandchildren here once in a while. But Maria protested.

"I want them to stay here," she said.

Clemente Garcia smiled at her and considered something else: Joseph Mariani, who
died in 1973, stayed in America.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Special to Mercury News: Copy photo of Family from Andy Mariani
archive circa 1950)(top Left- right) Joseph Mariani, aunt Goldie, wife Similia
with son Andy at 5 years, left, brother Mitch at 6 years old at their Apricot
orchard in Cupertino where OutBack Steak house now sits on De Anza Blvd. Andy's
Orchard in Morgan Hill, Calif. on Wednesday, July 27, 2011.(Josie Lepe/San Jose
Mercury News Staff)
(Special to Mercury News: Copy photo of Family from Andy Mariani archive circa
1940) Joseph Mariani's hometown Komiza on the Island of Vis in present Croatia.
Andy's Orchard in Morgan Hill, Calif. on Wednesday, July 27, 2011.(Josie
Lepe/San Jose Mercury News Staff)
High school students Arcadio Garcia,18, left, and Maricela Garcia,16, with dad
Clemente Garcia, 45, cut apricots during the summer job at Andy's Orchard in
Morgan Hill, Calif. on Saturday, July 16, 2011. Clemente Garcia received his
amnesty in the mid-1980s and brought his family to the USA three years ago after
waiting over 7 years for immigration papers to go through. He wants his children
to get educated so they don't have to work in the fields all their lives. "This
is hard work!" said Clemente. His oldest want to be an engineer, he is going to
community college. Arcadio wants to work with computers and Maricela wants to be
a teacher or a lawyer. During the summer they help out at the orchard making a
little summer money for school clothes. (Josie Lepe/San Jose Mercury News Staff)

Maricela Garcia,16, cuts apricots as she gets them ready for drying during her
summer job at Andy's Orchard in Morgan Hill, Calif. on Monday, July 25, 2011.
(Josie Lepe/San Jose Mercury News Staff) Clemente Garcia received amnesty in the
mid-1980s and brought his family to the USA three years ago after waiting over 7
years for immigration papers to go through. He wants his children to get
educated so they don't have to work in the fields all their lives. "This is hard
work!" said Clemente. His oldest want to be an engineer, he is going to
community college, Arcadio wants to work with computers and Maricela wants to be
a teacher or a lawyer. During the summer they help out at the orchard making a
little summer money for school clothes.
Clemente Garcia,45, picks plums from fruit trees at Andy's Orchard in Morgan
Hill, Calif. on Monday, July 25, 2011.(Josie Lepe/San Jose Mercury News Staff)
Clemente, who is originally from Guanajuato Mexico, received his amnesty in the
mid 1980's and brought his family to the USA three years ago after waiting over
7 years for immigration papers to go through. He wants his children to get
educated so they don't have to work in the fields all their lives. "This is hard
work!", said Clemente. His oldest want to be an engineer, he is going to
community college, Arcadio wants to work with computers and Maricela wants to be
a teacher or a lawyer. During the summer they help out at the orchard making a
little summer money for school clothes.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 5, 2011 Friday

U.N.: Money raised from Eritrean-Americans helped finance militants in East
Africa

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1122 words


OAKLAND -- Armed rebels in the famine-ravaged Horn of Africa are being partially
bankrolled by money from immigrants in the Bay Area, according to a United
Nations report.


The East African nation of Eritrea finances militants across the region with the
help of money funneled from Eritrean-Americans, who are pressured by the
government to send a percentage of their incomes and other donations home, the
report says.



Tens of millions of dollars are sent annually to Eritrea through a 2 percent
income tax imposed on people of Eritrean origin who live outside the African
country.

Not all Eritrean immigrants pay, but some do out of a sense of duty to the
impoverished country. Others pay because the Eritrean government can penalize
them if they refuse.

Those who pay "are indirectly supporting the dictatorship," said Solomon Assefaw
of Oakland-based Eritrean Youth for Change, which opposes the Eritrean
government. "No other country in the world does this except the Eritrean
government."

Oakland is one of the top U.S. hubs for Eritrean immigrants, many of them
refugees who fled during a 30-year war for independence from Ethiopia.
Immigrants from the Bay Area and elsewhere whose cash once supported the rebel
movement are now a major moneymaker for the one-party government that has ruled
Eritrea since it gained its independence in 1993.

The U.N. report backs up long-held suspicions that the tax collection and other
fundraising may violate international treaties, and that money is being funneled
to the al-Shabab insurgency in Somalia and other militant groups that have
destabilized the region. The report comes as al-Shabab has exacerbated a
devastating famine in Somalia by blocking incoming aid and outgoing refugees.

Released last week, the report asserts that Eritrea planned a terrorist bombing
attack earlier this year in Addis Ababa, the capital city of its rival and
former colonizer, Ethiopia, and details how Eritrea patronizes armed groups with
weapons and training through a "vast and complex informal economy" run by
government and military figures and funded by Eritreans living abroad.

The U.S. government curtailed the fundraising in California in 2007 during a
diplomatic dispute when it shuttered downtown Oakland's Eritrean Consulate, a
branch of the Eritrean Embassy, but some Bay Area organizations remain closely
tied to the Eritrean government and continue to collect money.

A document obtained by the Bay Area News Group asks vendors at the upcoming
Eritrean Western USA Festival, which happens in Oakland and Richmond next
weekend, to write their checks to the "Embassy of Eritrea," but mail them to the
nonprofit Eritrean Community Cultural Civic Center in the Temescal district of
Oakland.

Assefaw has urged Bay Area Eritreans to boycott the center's popular cultural
events, arguing that the money could be sent to the Eritrean government.

Berhane Kassa, the center's director, said the instructions on the application
must be a mistake. He denied allegations that the center is affiliated with the
government.

"It should not be saying the Embassy," he said. "They probably designed it a
long time ago and they didn't change. In the old days, it used to be like that."


Networks tied to Eritrean President Isaias Afewerki's ruling party, the People's
Front for Democracy and Justice, have raised tens of millions of dollars around
the world through party agents, community activists, honorary consuls and
business networks, the U.N. report says, identifying Oakland as a major source
of the funding.

"Some of this cash is deposited in Eritrean embassy bank accounts, but much of
it is moved through increasingly opaque financial networks, employing money
transfer companies and individual couriers," according to the report.

The findings caused the U.N. Security Council to extend its monitoring of a
2-year arms embargo on Eritrea.

Eritrea has blasted the monitoring group as an "illegal" invasion of its
sovereignty.

In the Bay Area's deeply divided Eritrean community, the report elicited
frustration from those who support the Eritrean government and believe the
country is unfairly maligned by the international community, and a sense of
vindication from the government's critics, particularly those who object to
paying the tax. The government calls the tax voluntary but keeps track of who
pays, and can punish those who don't by threatening to limit travel and take
away land, inheritances and birth and death certificates and permission to do
business in Eritrea.

"If you don't pay that, you don't get any services," said Kassa, the community
center director and a tax supporter. "One day you will go back to your country.
If you need any service, you must have fulfilled the requirements the government
has asked you to fulfill."

Created after Eritrea gained its independence from Ethiopia after a 30-year war,
the meh'weyi gebri -- which means healing or rehabilitation tax in the Eritrean
language of Tigrinya -- was designed to help the shattered country rebuild.

"Eritrea is so in need of development assistance. I kind of think of it as a
little bit of my part," said Merhawie Woldezion, a structural engineer who pays
the tax annually by mailing a check to the Eritrean Embassy in Washington, D.C.

Born and raised in Berkeley to Eritrean immigrant parents, Woldezion is a dual
citizen of the United States and Eritrea. Contributing 2 percent of his income
each year has allowed him to do engineering work in Eritrea. The U.N. report did
not convince him that Eritrea was misusing his money.

"We're not privy to CIA weapons transfers, either," he said. "It bothers me,
absolutely, but this is, I guess, the way governments work."

Others who refuse to pay the tax said the report proved their fears about the
Eritrean government.

Tedros Tesfay, an Orthodox Christian priest who recently moved to Orange County,
considers the Eritrean government to be an oppressive dictatorship.

Twenty years after independence, he said Afewerki still treats the national
government as if it were the rebel army from which it originated.

"The government is very secretive," Tesfay said. "They don't have an annual
budget. They don't have any constitution."

A former diplomat who was the Bush administration's top representative in
Africa, and who was involved in forcing Eritrea to close its Oakland consulate,
said Thursday the U.N. report confirmed what many intelligence agencies already
knew about Eritrea's covert aggression against its neighbors.

"Eritrea has been planning bombing attacks and terrorism in Addis Ababa for
quite some time," said Jendayi Frazer, the former U.S. Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs.

COMING SUNDAY: Bay Area Eritreans try to keep the faith amid religious,
political schisms.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 29, 2011 Monday

For Bay Area immigrants facing imminent deportation, new Obama policy offers no
reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1070 words


CONCORD -- Less than two weeks ago, the Obama administration announced it would
stop deporting many illegal immigrants who are not public safety threats. But
Monday, Arturo Rengifo Jr., a college student and Peruvian citizen who is no
one's idea of a threat, paced the floor in his Concord living room as he
prepared to be shipped back to Lima on Tuesday.

Rengifo, 24, who has lived in the United States since he was 6, is one of a
number of immigrants in the Bay Area and around the country caught in a
bureaucratic tangle: While the administration has announced its intent to change
immigration policy, it hasn't yet implemented a new system, so planned
deportations are proceeding.

"The new policy is to not break families apart, but they're not budging on
this," said Rengifo, who must leave the country along with his father, while his
mother and brother will stay in the Bay Area. "For us to leave everything here
would just be a big, big tragedy."

The college student waited for hopeful news on his cell phone as his father, who
suffers from depression, sat nervously on a sofa. His mother's voice shook as
she contemplated what would happen to the family if she lost her son and husband
of more than 30 years.

"We've never depended on the government, we pay our taxes, we've never had
problems with anybody," Emperatriz Rengifo said. "I don't know what I will do
without them."

The Department of Homeland Security announced more than a week ago that it will
review 300,000 pending cases to prioritize deporting felons, but the agency
clarified Monday that it has not begun the case-by-case reviews and will
continue to enforce immigration law as it did before the announcement.

"Because the working group is in the midst of designing the process for
reviewing cases, no individual cases have been administratively closed or
otherwise affected by the policy," the agency said.

Eventually, a committee of federal lawyers and other officials from Homeland
Security and the Department of Justice will review each pending case and focus
"on the removal of criminal aliens, other aliens who pose a threat to public
safety or national security, repeat immigration law violators, recent illegal
border crossers, and immigration fugitives."

Rengifo does not fall under any of those high-priority categories. The graduate
of Ygnacio Valley High School has a clean record, studies at Diablo Valley
College, works in customer relations at an AT&T store and helps his family run a
day care service at their home. However, an immigration agent told him last week
that he does not qualify for a reprieve because his father's long-standing plea
for political asylum had already been litigated, and lost.

Agents plan to escort the 69-year-old father and his son to San Francisco
International Airport on Tuesday night, where the two men -- both named Arturo
Rengifo -- will board a flight to Lima, splitting the family of four as
Emperatriz Rengifo and the couple's older son remain in Concord.

"My family is all I have," Arturo Rengifo Jr. said. "Without them, it's like
we're falling apart. Imagining my mom by herself is really depressing."

His mother's deportation is on hold because judges found her asylum testimony
more credible than her husband's. Meanwhile, his older brother has a path to
legal residency because he married a U.S. citizen.

The imminent deportation of half the Rengifo family reflects ongoing confusion
over the new Obama administration policy, which was made public Aug. 18 and
celebrated by many immigration advocates because of the promise to drop
thousands of low-priority cases. The administration also released new guidelines
in June that instruct agents to reconsider deporting some immigrants, including
high school graduates such as Rengifo who have lived in the U.S. since
childhood, but immigration lawyers say those guidelines are not always followed.


"According to (immigration agents), the Dream Act was denied and the kid is good
to go," said Rhoda Wilkinson Domingo, the Rengifo family's lawyer. "He's had his
bite of the apple is what they keep telling me."

The Rengifos were not the only Bay Area family who cited the new Obama
administration policy in pleading for a last-minute reprieve this week.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Monday detained Victor Rosales, of East
Palo Alto, and planned to deport him to Guatemala. U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-San Francisco, and Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, asked federal officials to
put his deportation on hold. The Board of Immigration Appeals denied the appeal
on Monday afternoon but then, late in the day, the immigration agency granted
him a 30-day stay.

After fingerprinting him and getting ready to place him in detention, Rosales
said immigration agents appeared annoyed at getting the late-afternoon call to
release him, but his wife and 2-year-old son were overjoyed when he came out of
custody.

"I feel at peace, so relieved," said his wife, Idania Rosales-Picen.

The Guatemalan man's wife had applied for political asylum because she had been
abused by a former husband in Guatemala, but the family -- like the Rengifos --
recently lost their case at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The family's
lawyer said that Rosales and his wife have a 1996 shoplifting conviction, making
it less likely that their case would be reconsidered.

San Francisco attorney Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center
said these cases might not be a good gauge of the new policy, since judges
already had issued a final order of deportation for both Rosales and the
Rengifos.

"It's vague," Silverman said of the new policy. "It's hard to say how it is
going to be implemented."

He hoped that of the 300,000 cases being reviewed, at least a third of them
would be administratively closed, but he said it might depend on the discretion
of immigration agents, some of whom are likely to personally oppose the new
mandate.

Immigration control groups think the case-by-case review violates the will of
Congress.

"This goes way beyond just some regulatory changes," said Ira Mehlman of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "Essentially, the administration has
scrapped the existing immigration policies and made its own."

Mehlman said immigration agents should be able to use discretion in
"extenuating, unusual circumstances," but he argued that the new policy gives a
blanket reprieve to entire categories of people who violated immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Lt. to Rt.) Idania Rosales, 41, of East Palo Alto, is briefed by
Immigration Attorney Zachary Nightingale about her husband Victor Manuel
Rosales, 52, of East Palo Alto, deportation two blocks away from the The United
States Customs and Immigration Enforcement office in downtown San Francisco,
Monday August 29, 2011. (Maria J. Avila Lopes/Mercury News)
(Lt. to Rt.) Idania Rosales, 41, of East Palo Alto, greets her husband Victor
Manuel Rosales, 52, East Palo Alto, two blocks from the United Stated Customs
and Immigration Enforcement Office in San Francisco after he was granted a stay
of deportation in downtown San Francisco, Monday August 29, 2011. Rosales, who
would face danger in his home country of Guatemala, was already in the process
of being deported but he was able to get help from a lawyer and political
officials. (Maria J. Avila Lopez)
Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, checks his phone for email updates from an immigration
attorney with his mom Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, and father Arturo Rengifo in
Concord, Calif., Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband
are to be deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six
is worried about his family being torn apart. Arturo and Emperatriz have been
married for 37 years and have lived in Concord for 18. (Susan Tripp
Pollard/Staff)
Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, sits on the couch with her husband of 37 years, Arturo
Rengifo who suffers from depression and Post Tramatic Stress Disorder, at their
home in Concord, Calif., Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son
Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, and husband are to be deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who
has not been to Peru since he was six is worried about his family being torn
apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
In their backyard play structures take up most of the yard from Emperatriz
Rengifo, 59, child care business as she sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo
Rengifo and her son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif.,
Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband are to be
deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six is
worried about his family being torn apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
In their backyard play structures take up most of the yard from Emperatriz
Rengifo, 59, child care business as she sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo
Rengifo and her son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif.,
Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband are to be
deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six is
worried about his family being torn apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 29, 2011 Monday

For Bay Area immigrants facing imminent deportation, new Obama policy offers no
reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1070 words


CONCORD -- Less than two weeks ago, the Obama administration announced it would
stop deporting many illegal immigrants who are not public safety threats. But
Monday, Arturo Rengifo Jr., a college student and Peruvian citizen who is no
one's idea of a threat, paced the floor in his Concord living room as he
prepared to be shipped back to Lima on Tuesday.

Rengifo, 24, who has lived in the United States since he was 6, is one of a
number of immigrants in the Bay Area and around the country caught in a
bureaucratic tangle: While the administration has announced its intent to change
immigration policy, it hasn't yet implemented a new system, so planned
deportations are proceeding.

"The new policy is to not break families apart, but they're not budging on
this," said Rengifo, who must leave the country along with his father, while his
mother and brother will stay in the Bay Area. "For us to leave everything here
would just be a big, big tragedy."

The college student waited for hopeful news on his cell phone as his father, who
suffers from depression, sat nervously on a sofa. His mother's voice shook as
she contemplated what would happen to the family if she lost her son and husband
of more than 30 years.

"We've never depended on the government, we pay our taxes, we've never had
problems with anybody," Emperatriz Rengifo said. "I don't know what I will do
without them."

The Department of Homeland Security announced more than a week ago that it will
review 300,000 pending cases to prioritize deporting felons, but the agency
clarified Monday that it has not begun the case-by-case reviews and will
continue to enforce immigration law as it did before the announcement.

"Because the working group is in the midst of designing the process for
reviewing cases, no individual cases have been administratively closed or
otherwise affected by the policy," the agency said.

Eventually, a committee of federal lawyers and other officials from Homeland
Security and the Department of Justice will review each pending case and focus
"on the removal of criminal aliens, other aliens who pose a threat to public
safety or national security, repeat immigration law violators, recent illegal
border crossers, and immigration fugitives."

Rengifo does not fall under any of those high-priority categories. The graduate
of Ygnacio Valley High School has a clean record, studies at Diablo Valley
College, works in customer relations at an AT&T store and helps his family run a
day care service at their home. However, an immigration agent told him last week
that he does not qualify for a reprieve because his father's long-standing plea
for political asylum had already been litigated, and lost.

Agents plan to escort the 69-year-old father and his son to San Francisco
International Airport on Tuesday night, where the two men -- both named Arturo
Rengifo -- will board a flight to Lima, splitting the family of four as
Emperatriz Rengifo and the couple's older son remain in Concord.

"My family is all I have," Arturo Rengifo Jr. said. "Without them, it's like
we're falling apart. Imagining my mom by herself is really depressing."

His mother's deportation is on hold because judges found her asylum testimony
more credible than her husband's. Meanwhile, his older brother has a path to
legal residency because he married a U.S. citizen.

The imminent deportation of half the Rengifo family reflects ongoing confusion
over the new Obama administration policy, which was made public Aug. 18 and
celebrated by many immigration advocates because of the promise to drop
thousands of low-priority cases. The administration also released new guidelines
in June that instruct agents to reconsider deporting some immigrants, including
high school graduates such as Rengifo who have lived in the U.S. since
childhood, but immigration lawyers say those guidelines are not always followed.


"According to (immigration agents), the Dream Act was denied and the kid is good
to go," said Rhoda Wilkinson Domingo, the Rengifo family's lawyer. "He's had his
bite of the apple is what they keep telling me."

The Rengifos were not the only Bay Area family who cited the new Obama
administration policy in pleading for a last-minute reprieve this week.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Monday detained Victor Rosales, of East
Palo Alto, and planned to deport him to Guatemala. U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-San Francisco, and Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, asked federal officials to
put his deportation on hold. The Board of Immigration Appeals denied the appeal
on Monday afternoon but then, late in the day, the immigration agency granted
him a 30-day stay.

After fingerprinting him and getting ready to place him in detention, Rosales
said immigration agents appeared annoyed at getting the late-afternoon call to
release him, but his wife and 2-year-old son were overjoyed when he came out of
custody.

"I feel at peace, so relieved," said his wife, Idania Rosales-Picen.

The Guatemalan man's wife had applied for political asylum because she had been
abused by a former husband in Guatemala, but the family -- like the Rengifos --
recently lost their case at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The family's
lawyer said that Rosales and his wife have a 1996 shoplifting conviction, making
it less likely that their case would be reconsidered.

San Francisco attorney Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center
said these cases might not be a good gauge of the new policy, since judges
already had issued a final order of deportation for both Rosales and the
Rengifos.

"It's vague," Silverman said of the new policy. "It's hard to say how it is
going to be implemented."

He hoped that of the 300,000 cases being reviewed, at least a third of them
would be administratively closed, but he said it might depend on the discretion
of immigration agents, some of whom are likely to personally oppose the new
mandate.

Immigration control groups think the case-by-case review violates the will of
Congress.

"This goes way beyond just some regulatory changes," said Ira Mehlman of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "Essentially, the administration has
scrapped the existing immigration policies and made its own."

Mehlman said immigration agents should be able to use discretion in
"extenuating, unusual circumstances," but he argued that the new policy gives a
blanket reprieve to entire categories of people who violated immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Lt. to Rt.) Idania Rosales, 41, of East Palo Alto, is briefed by
Immigration Attorney Zachary Nightingale about her husband Victor Manuel
Rosales, 52, of East Palo Alto, deportation two blocks away from the The United
States Customs and Immigration Enforcement office in downtown San Francisco,
Monday August 29, 2011. (Maria J. Avila Lopes/Mercury News)
(Lt. to Rt.) Idania Rosales, 41, of East Palo Alto, greets her husband Victor
Manuel Rosales, 52, East Palo Alto, two blocks from the United Stated Customs
and Immigration Enforcement Office in San Francisco after he was granted a stay
of deportation in downtown San Francisco, Monday August 29, 2011. Rosales, who
would face danger in his home country of Guatemala, was already in the process
of being deported but he was able to get help from a lawyer and political
officials. (Maria J. Avila Lopez)
Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo Rengifo and her
son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif., Monday, Aug. 29,
2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband are to be deported to Peru.
Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six, is worried about his
family being torn apart. Play structures in the background, which are used for a
childcare business, take up most of the backyard. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, checks his phone for email updates from an immigration
attorney with his mom Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, and father Arturo Rengifo in
Concord, Calif., Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband
are to be deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six
is worried about his family being torn apart. Arturo and Emperatriz have been
married for 37 years and have lived in Concord for 18. (Susan Tripp
Pollard/Staff)
Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, sits on the couch with her husband of 37 years, Arturo
Rengifo who suffers from depression and Post Tramatic Stress Disorder, at their
home in Concord, Calif., Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son
Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, and husband are to be deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who
has not been to Peru since he was six is worried about his family being torn
apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
In their backyard play structures take up most of the yard from Emperatriz
Rengifo, 59, child care business as she sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo
Rengifo and her son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif.,
Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband are to be
deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six is
worried about his family being torn apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday

Speier hosting citizenship event in San Mateo on Thursday

BYLINE: By Joshua Melvin jmelvin@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; News

LENGTH: 177 words


Rep. Jackie Speier and U.S. immigration officials are slated to be in San Mateo
on Thursday to give local green card holders a look at what it takes to become a
U.S. citizen.

The forum, which is scheduled to run from 4 to 6 p.m. at City Hall, will include
talks on the process of applying for citizenship as well as the written test
would-be Americans must take, said Katrina Rill, spokeswoman for the
Hillsborough Democrat.

Officials from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services will present the
information and are expected to perform a mock citizenship test interview.

"I am offering this informational session with the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services to answer a myriad of questions that legal immigrants might
have regarding the process involved in becoming a citizen of the United States,"
said Speier in a written statement.

The event is free and will be presented in English only. People interested in
attending must sign up by calling 650-342-0300 or by clicking "upcoming events"
at www.speier.house.gov .

Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

East Bay father and son get last-minute deportation reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 606 words


CONCORD -- A father and son set to be deported to Peru won a last-minute,
temporary reprieve on Tuesday after an Illinois senator intervened on their
behalf.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement is delaying for a month the deportation of
longtime Concord resident Arturo Rengifo, Sr., and his son, Arturo Rengifo, Jr.

"My mom is able to relax more," said the 24-year-old son, who would have left
his mother and older brother in Concord had he been forced to take the one-way
flight to Lima on Tuesday night. "She can actually breathe now. Hopefully more
good things will happen, and I will be able to stay in this country."

The Rengifos are hoping a more lenient Obama administration deportation policy,
announced on Aug. 18 but not yet implemented, could keep the family of four
together in the Bay Area.

"I have more hope now; I have more faith now. I didn't pack my bags," said
Arturo Rengifo, Jr., a student at Diablo Valley College and customer service
representative at an AT&T store in Richmond. His father is a janitor, and the
parents run a day care business at their home.

They applied for political asylum in the 1990s, but Arturo Rengifo, Sr.,
recently lost his case after several appeals.

News of the 30-day stay came to the family Tuesday morning from the office of
U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., which had made calls to immigration officers on
the family's behalf.

"They just found out at 9 this morning they didn't have to leave at 10 tonight,"
said lawyer Rhoda Wilkinson Domingo. Before that, she said, the Rengifos "were
having a meltdown."

Later in the morning, an immigration officer confirmed the information with the
family's lawyer, but agents said the father and son must buy another one-way
plane ticket to Lima on Sept. 29.

The 69-year-old father fears for his life in Peru, where he claims to have been
threatened with violence by Shining Path guerrillas in the early 1990s.

His son, having lived in the United States since he was 6, said he does not know
what he would do in the South American country if he had to return.

The family's lawyer says  new Obama administration directives are reasons the
Rengifos should stay. In mid-June, the director of immigration enforcement
released a memorandum to agents instructing them to use more discretion in
choosing which illegal immigrants to deport, taking special care in cases
involving those brought to the country at a young age.

The Department of Homeland Security and the White House made the policy changes
more explicit on Aug. 18 when they announced they will review all 300,000
pending cases, speeding up the deportation of felons and other high-priority
cases but dropping thousands of cases against immigrants who are not a public
safety threat. They said Monday that the case-by-case reviews have not yet
begun.

Bay Area immigration lawyers have heard of a few anecdotal cases of immigration
agents or judges halting a deportation since the June memo, and all of those
involved illegal immigrants who are students or same-sex married spouses.

"We've heard overwhelmingly that ICE had not changed its behavior since that
memo," said Katy Chase, a lawyer with the Northern California chapter of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association. "It remains to be seen whether the new
announcement is a continuation of the prior, largely ineffective memo, or a real
effort to correct the lack of enforcement of the memo. Time will tell."

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said at a breakfast forum Tuesday
in Washington, D.C., that even after the agency implements the new policy, the
rate of deportation of illegal immigrants will continue to be "very robust."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Emperatriz Rengifo, 59, sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo
Rengifo and her son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif.,
Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband were to be
deported to Peru. The men won a 30-day stay of their deportation. (Susan Tripp
Pollard/Staff)
In their backyard play structures take up most of the yard from Emperatriz
Rengifo, 59, child care business as she sits with her husband of 37 years Arturo
Rengifo and her son Arturo Rengifo, Jr., 24, at their home in Concord, Calif.,
Monday, Aug. 29, 2011. On Tuesday, Emperatriz's son and husband are to be
deported to Peru. Arturo Jr. who has not been to Peru since he was six is
worried about his family being torn apart. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Opinion: Immigration has never been a painless process

BYLINE: By Steve Westly Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 591 words


The headlines today are too often punctuated with unfortunate stories about
immigrants: people struggling under or around fences into border states, or
Middle Eastern immigrants who are too often suspected of being terrorists
because of the clothes they wear or the length of their beards.

In Silicon Valley, we know something different about immigrants. They are a
large part of what makes the United States the greatest country in the world.

We've grown up watching scores of immigrant-led companies go public and reshape
the economy. But it is not just in business where immigrants are making a
difference. It is in a thousand strands in the fabric of American life that
ultimately makes us a better country. Here's a story you don't often see in the
news:

In 1997, a man pulls into a service station for gas. The Indo-American
attendant, a recent immigrant, notices the driver is wearing a shirt that says
"table tennis." As he fills the tank, the attendant mentions that he was a table
tennis player himself and likes to teach kids. The driver, somewhat skeptical,
gives him a chance to teach at the local table tennis club. The gas station
attendant, struggling to get by financially, turns out to be a pretty good coach
-- he had played on the national team back in India. The man, Rajul Sheth,
quietly builds a table tennis program at the Indian Community Center in
Milpitas. In less than five years, he builds the largest table tennis center in
the United States. As many as 200 people come to the center every day, and it is
not uncommon to see all 20 tables filled at 9 p.m. on a weeknight.

By 2009, Coach Sheth has no fewer than 20 junior players nationally ranked in
the top 10 in their age group, including the top two women in the country. In
2010, the director of the U.S. Olympic Committee comes out to give Sheth an
award at the annual dinner. Everyone thinks Sheth is going to win the award as
the best table tennis coach in the country. After all, how many table tennis
coaches are there in America? But that's not the award he wins. He wins the
award as the best coach -- in ANY Olympic sport. Sheth cries as he receives the
award, and so do I. The next year, Sheth again receives the USOC's Coach of the
Year award -- he has come a long way in America.

What makes immigrants do so well in America? It's hard to know. Part of it is
clearly that America is getting a special subset of people who badly want to
create a better life for themselves and to do something special. Whether they're
domestic workers, entrepreneurs or table tennis coaches.

It's no wonder that so many immigrants become financially successful. Have you
ever heard of those distinctly American companies eBay, Google or YouTube?
Immigrants founded all of them. By almost any standard, including volunteering
for military service, immigrants are among the most patriotic Americans.

Having recently celebrated America's birthday, maybe it is time to give thanks
for the vast majority of immigrants -- most of whom we never hear about -- who
are working to make our country a better place every day.

So the next time you read a story about friction over new immigrants, remember
immigration has never been a painless process. Our serving as a magnet of hope
and opportunity for ambitious people around the world is not only an inspiration
for others, but an enormous benefit to us.

STEVE WESTLY is managing partner of The Westly Group, a clean technology venture
capital firm. He served as California State Controller from 2003 to 2007. He
wrote this for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 31, 2011 Wednesday

Mercury News 'Torn Apart' video a finalist in Online News Association contest

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


'Torn Apart,' the story of a Bay Area family's emotional journey through the
U.S. immigration system, is a finalist in the large website video category in
the annual Online News Association Journalism Awards contest, the association
announced.

The video by Mercury News photojournalist Dai Sugano examines America's debate
over illegal immigration through the eyes of a single family. For a year, Sugano
and reporter Ken McLaughlin followed Macrina Mota-Pineda, a mother facing
deportation because of her illegal immigration status. They reported on the
impact that action had on her six U.S.-born children. In addition to Sugano's
video, the story was told in still photos and accompanying text. The entire
package can be viewed at www.mercurynews.com/torn-apart .

Other finalists in the large site video category are 'Caught in the Crossfire:
Victims of Gang Violence' and 'Chasing the Swell' from the Los Angeles Times and
'Video Portraiture' from the New York Times Magazine.

The results will be announced at the 2011 ONA Conference and Online Journalism
Awards Banquet on Sept. 24 in Boston.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

City rolls out longer, wider welcome mat for immigrants

BYLINE: By Rowena Coetsee Contra Costa Times

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 594 words


OAKLEY -- Bienvenidos. Maligayang pagdating. Hoan Nghinh. Ahlan Wa Sahlan.

The words mean the same in any language: Welcome.

And it's a message Oakley wants to make sure it conveys to its immigrant
population.

To that end, the city recently formalized efforts to make foreign-born residents
feel that they're a valuable part of their adopted community in a campaign it's
calling "You, Me, We = Oakley."

The City Council last week accepted $98,000 in grants that it will use to plan
and carry out activities aimed at removing the barriers that discourage
immigrants from fully participating in community life.

"We always can do better," said City Manager Bryan Montgomery, a member of the
group that's behind the initiative. "We don't think about it enough. We just go
about living our lives, and sometimes we don't think to be inclusive."

To those who might question whether it's the city's job to draw newcomers into
the fold, Montgomery points out that everyone benefits when immigrant
populations feel they have something to contribute to schools, government and
other aspects of community life.

They're more likely to care about their city's well-being by doing such things
as keeping it clean, safe and economically healthy, he said.

The city started the project after learning of Welcoming America, a
Georgia-based nonprofit dedicated to promoting mutual respect between immigrants
and U.S.-born Americans.

Oakley since has become one of two cities in California affiliated with the
organization.

For the past few months, a committee that represents a cross-section of Oakley
-- members include not only city officials but school principals and a
counselor, a high school student and representatives of various churches -- has
been hammering out specific goals for the project.

Those include getting more races, ethnicities and nationalities involved in city
affairs and encouraging immigrant parents along with their children to
participate more fully in school activities.

The hope also is to help established residents and newcomers understand each
other better as well as to improve the relationship between immigrants and
police, both of which can curb crime.

Some Oakley residents didn't trust law enforcement in their native countries, so
one objective is to foster a spirit of cooperation with local police, explained
Mayor Jim Frazier.

Exactly how the project's advocates will accomplish these goals remains to be
seen, although they have sketched out some general ideas:


     ·    Training for school district and city employees could spur those
          institutions to make a bigger effort to include immigrants in their
          events.



     ·    Publish bilingual guides listing the services available from public
          institutions.



     ·    Hold events that bring newcomers and longer-term residents together.



     ·    Tap people to plan all-inclusive events in conjunction with the
          chamber of commerce, sports leagues, civic clubs and
          parent-teacher-student groups.



     ·    Showcase different cultures -- their food, dance, music -- at citywide
          events.



     ·    Document the life stories of recent immigrants as well as residents
          whose ancestors came to the United States from another country.


Other ways that Oakley can make foreigners feel more at home is by disseminating
fliers advertising community events in Spanish as well as English and offering
city-sponsored sports like soccer that appeal to different ethnic groups,
Montgomery said.

He noted that the city already is planning another informational meeting like
last month's presentation on Neighborhood Watch, this time for Spanish speakers.

Contact Rowena Coetsee at 925-779-7141.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 993 words


Skating on thin ice

While Republican presidential candidates have been busy denying climate science,
polar ice caps have melted to an all time historic low as a result of
human-induced global warming.

The year 2011 sets the record for lowest Arctic sea ice volume, according to
researchers at the University of Bremen in Germany, followed by last week's
announcement by the University of Washington.

Tea Party pabulum is distracting us from the profound challenges of our times:
to transition to an economy rooted in renewable energy and green jobs; to
promote community over consumerism; and to build a more equitable, peaceful and
sustainable future for our kids.

Lisa Jacobs Pontecorvo

Albany

Political gains

If by "will President Barack Obama's jobs plan work?" you mean, will it pacify
people who shortsightedly care only for their own welfare and help win their
support for Obama's re-election, I would say, probably yes.

Ron Greenstein

El Cerrito

Hypocrisy

Education is truly a necessity; we need an educated populous.

However, I was insulted when I read the Times article, "Cal seeks aid for
students." The article reports UC administrators are seeking scholarships for
undocumented immigrants.

This is equivalent to slapping citizens and legal immigrants. Brutal economic
realities affecting us all make this the worst timing for aid to illegal
immigrants.

Middle- and low-income parents generally invest in the education of their
children by hard work and sacrifice. Many American students get education loans
that must be paid back. Many middle-and low-income citizens can't afford a UC
education, and availability of scholarships is limited.

If these scholarships materialize, illegal immigrants can bypass some or all of
that hardship. The courts already decided that illegal immigrants can have
taxpayer subsidized educations. Now add in the scholarship program.

The article quotes the UC administrators as chastising the state for not
adequately funding education, yet they themselves are helping illegal immigrants
rather than focusing resources on legal state residents.

This is hypocrisy. It seems inappropriate to assist illegal immigrants at a time
when our own young citizens need all the help they can get.

Andrew D. Pohlman

Pinole

AIDS in Uganda

In his Sept. 15 letter in the Times, George Munoz justifies the draconian laws
against homosexuals being perpetrated in Uganda as being justified by the
continuing spread of AIDS in Africa.

In Africa, as opposed to in our local culture, most of the transmission of the
HIV organism is through "normal" heterosexual activity, heterosexual
prostitution, intravenous drug use, and the lack of circumcision -- with 43
percent of new AIDS cases (in Uganda) developing in monogamous, heterosexual
married couples.

AIDS, unfortunately, is an "equal opportunity disease" and, at least in Africa,
has little association with the sexual orientation of its victims.

Energies devoted to stigmatizing and criminalizing the victims of this disease
should be rerouted into efforts to educate the general population as to
effectively prevent this eminently avoidable disease.

Condoms are far more effective in controlling AIDS than laws, no matter how
rigorous.

Dr. Robert A. Fink

Berkeley

Create jobs

In response to criticism that not enough is being done to reduce unemployment,
President Obama sent a jobs bill to Congress on Sept. 12.

Republicans have already positioned themselves to oppose Obama's package (though
they have no plan of their own) and the Democrats don't have the courage to
demand stronger measures.

Instead, both parties expect the middle class to sacrifice while tax cuts for
the wealthy and corporations remain fully supported. This odd way of thinking
hasn't created jobs nor will it.

A bold start for both parties would be to state that tax loopholes will be
closed and that corporations offshoring jobs will be slapped with tariffs. There
are plenty of Americans available to manufacture products here in this country.
We don't need to ship in products from Asia.

Once the incentive to ship American jobs overseas is stopped, it will create
revenue and jump start our manufacturing base. The solution is obvious. But
until both parties are willing to embrace what's in the best interest of the
country -- and not their pockets -- the United States will continue its downward
spiral.

Arthur Hunt

Richmond

Praises editorials

I commend the Bay Area News Group for two recent editorials bringing to the
public's attention matters that are of grave concern to citizens who look to the
government to act with our interests foremost in thought.

"Exclusive event a stunning waste of taxpayer money" (Sept. 8) described the Bay
Area Air Quality Management District's extravagant plans for an Oct. 21 "summit"
at Richmond's Craneway Pavilion, featuring Bill Clinton, estimated to cost
upward of $250,000. It is partially underwritten by the Metropolitan
Transportation Commission, and most troubling, potentially taxpayer funded if
more contributions are not generated from private funders such as Shell,
Chevron, and PG&E, who seek the BAAQMD's approval for projects.

This could not come at a worse time, with debt and unemployment at high levels,
and government corruption and conflict of interest rampant.

"Four bills need veto" (Sept. 14) also highlights the influence of money on
public policy. Two Assembly bills and two Senate bills have a common theme:
inhibiting competition and boosting the cost of taxpayer-funded public projects
by requiring project labor agreements (PLAs) with union wage scales and rules.

Several local governments have developed policies to prohibit
government-mandated PLAs, to provide flexibility and cost control as they
struggle to maintain services such as libraries. I hope Gov. Brown includes
these bills among those he vetoes in the next few weeks.

The Times is performing the job of watchdog and advocate for the citizens'
interest and it is noticed and appreciated.

Marilyn McPherson

Berkeley

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

City rolls out longer, wider welcome mat for immigrants

BYLINE: By Rowena Coetsee Contra Costa Times

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 594 words


OAKLEY -- Bienvenidos. Maligayang pagdating. Hoan Nghinh. Ahlan Wa Sahlan.

The words mean the same in any language: Welcome.

And it's a message Oakley wants to make sure it conveys to its immigrant
population.

To that end, the city recently formalized efforts to make foreign-born residents
feel that they're a valuable part of their adopted community in a campaign it's
calling "You, Me, We = Oakley."

The City Council last week accepted $98,000 in grants that it will use to plan
and carry out activities aimed at removing the barriers that discourage
immigrants from fully participating in community life.

"We always can do better," said City Manager Bryan Montgomery, a member of the
group that's behind the initiative. "We don't think about it enough. We just go
about living our lives, and sometimes we don't think to be inclusive."

To those who might question whether it's the city's job to draw newcomers into
the fold, Montgomery points out that everyone benefits when immigrant
populations feel they have something to contribute to schools, government and
other aspects of community life.

They're more likely to care about their city's well-being by doing such things
as keeping it clean, safe and economically healthy, he said.

The city started the project after learning of Welcoming America, a
Georgia-based nonprofit dedicated to promoting mutual respect between immigrants
and U.S.-born Americans.

Oakley since has become one of two cities in California affiliated with the
organization.

For the past few months, a committee that represents a cross-section of Oakley
-- members include not only city officials but school principals and a
counselor, a high school student and representatives of various churches -- has
been hammering out specific goals for the project.

Those include getting more races, ethnicities and nationalities involved in city
affairs and encouraging immigrant parents along with their children to
participate more fully in school activities.

The hope also is to help established residents and newcomers understand each
other better as well as to improve the relationship between immigrants and
police, both of which can curb crime.

Some Oakley residents didn't trust law enforcement in their native countries, so
one objective is to foster a spirit of cooperation with local police, explained
Mayor Jim Frazier.

Exactly how the project's advocates will accomplish these goals remains to be
seen, although they have sketched out some general ideas:


     ·    Training for school district and city employees could spur those
          institutions to make a bigger effort to include immigrants in their
          events.



     ·    Publish bilingual guides listing the services available from public
          institutions.



     ·    Hold events that bring newcomers and longer-term residents together.



     ·    Tap people to plan all-inclusive events in conjunction with the
          chamber of commerce, sports leagues, civic clubs and
          parent-teacher-student groups.



     ·    Showcase different cultures -- their food, dance, music -- at citywide
          events.



     ·    Document the life stories of recent immigrants as well as residents
          whose ancestors came to the United States from another country.


Other ways that Oakley can make foreigners feel more at home is by disseminating
fliers advertising community events in Spanish as well as English and offering
city-sponsored sports like soccer that appeal to different ethnic groups,
Montgomery said.

He noted that the city already is planning another informational meeting like
last month's presentation on Neighborhood Watch, this time for Spanish speakers.

Contact Rowena Coetsee at 925-779-7141.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Opinion: Ruben Navarrette Jr.: Politicians need to be honest about immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 637 words


ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -- With all due respect to Texas Gov. Rick Perry -- and he
deserves a lot of it for standing his ground on immigration -- the main problem
that Republicans have in talking about the issue is not that some of them don't
have a heart. It's that many of them don't seem to have an honest bone in their
body.

Democrats are the same way. They would rather pander to labor unions than
confront their allies about the fact that illegal immigrants do not threaten
their members.

In January, I spoke at the inaugural conference of the Hispanic Leadership
Network in Miami. Organized to build bridges between Hispanics and the
center-right movement, the network could show America's largest minority that --
in the 2012 election -- it has options beyond choosing the lesser of two evils.

My message to the group at the time was that Republicans often mangle the
immigration debate because they pander to racists in their base, propose simple
solutions to a complex problem, and define the dynamic as "us vs. them" with
Hispanics in the "them" category.

I almost forgot the most important thing that Republicans do wrong when talking
about immigration: They shred their credibility by spreading half-truths and
untruths. They never talk about how U.S. employers -- especially American
households -- hire illegal immigrants, how those immigrants pay taxes and
contribute to the U.S. economy by taking jobs few others would take, and how
much of the angst about maintaining current levels of immigration has to do with
who is doing the immigrating. More than racism or harsh rhetoric, it's the
dishonesty that sticks in the craw of Latino voters.

This tendency to shade the truth was in evidence when three supposedly moderate
Republican members of Congress appeared on an immigration panel at the Hispanic
Leadership Network's second conference here in New Mexico. Reps. Raul Labrador
of Idaho, Pete Sessions of Texas, and Francisco "Quico" Canseco of Texas all
agreed that the Republican Party needed to tone down its rhetoric with regard to
immigration or risk the possibility of further alienating a growing and
important group of voters.

Every month, another 50,000 U.S.-born Hispanics turn 18 and become eligible to
vote. The GOP had better hope these folks have short memories and don't hold
grudges toward those who tried to turn their parents into scapegoats.

Some of what the panelists had to say was sensible; other parts made no sense.

Labrador, a former immigration lawyer who was born in Puerto Rico, was correct
to point out that "Republicans have a message that appeals to the Hispanic
community, but Hispanics don't feel welcomed in the party."

But he was dishonest when he accused President Obama of trying to "implement the
Dream Act by fiat"; all the administration did was promise to review deportation
cases that might involve college students.

Canseco, the son of Mexican immigrants from the state of Nuevo León, was correct
to note that Americans "need to know why it is that people come here" and
separate "those who want to work from those who want to do ill to this country."
He skipped the half-truths and instead offered the most candid line of the forum
when he said: "We have a broken system because we have wanted it broken."

That's certainly true. For generations, the United States has needed a steady
flow of workers, and it left the back door ajar so that able-bodied laborers
from the south could enter with ease.

It was refreshing to hear a member of Congress -- in this case, a freshman --
come clean about why Americans have an immigration "problem" in the first place.
It makes you wonder what else our lawmakers in Washington know about this issue,
and the realities surrounding it, that they're not saying publicly.

C'mon, folks, be honest.

RUBEN NAVARRETTE JR. is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

Oct. 8 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 1395 words


Follow Jobs' example: Volunteer, change a life

Regarding Steve Jobs, I keep hearing the comment, "He changed my life." Jobs did
that and more for us during his lifetime through his genius and courage. You
don't need to be a technical guru or billionaire philanthropist, however, to
make a difference in someone's life. Many Silicon Valley folks, old and young,
not so rich or so talented, are doing that every day. They volunteer their time,
expertise, energy and friendship to those in need. They change lives.

Despite his illness, Steve continued to contribute. Consider his example. Type
"volunteer" in a search engine and find an opportunity where you can make a
difference in someone's life. Let's keep Steve's legacy alive for future
generations.

Marialis Seehorn

Leader, Volunteer Committee Hewlett-Packard/Agilent Technologies Retirees Club
Sunnyvale

Reducing immigration levels will create jobs

All this talk about creating jobs and nobody mentions the 500-pound gorilla in
the room. Massive immigration into the country adds 125,000 more job-seeking
immigrants every month to compete with Americans. Reducing immigration levels to
a sustainable amount would effectively create millions of jobs. See
NumbersUSA.com .

Rick Nowack

San Jose

Jobs' dogma rejection disrespects our past

In 2005, Steve Jobs told the graduating students at Stanford University the
secret that defined his every action, every decision, every creation of his life
was the belief that one should "not be trapped by dogma -- which is living with
the results of other people's thinking." This is not visionary but shortsighted
and narcissistic for it fails to honor the debt we all owe to those who went
before us -- those who laid the groundwork for progress and who challenged us
with their magnificent ideas and achievements. Indeed, the rejection of dogma
has led to moral relativism and the demise of Western civilization. Ultimately,
the great achievements of technology are liberating and contribute to the
progress of mankind only if they are joined to the attitudes of purity, honesty
and faith in God.

Elwood Shanks

San Jose

Silver lining to tragedy: Proof of stellar schools

I'm not mitigating the tragedies of Wednesday, but in trying to find the silver
lining, this incident does demonstrate how capable our school system is. Though
no one is writing headlines on this, it's true. As a Lynbrook High School
student, I've practiced code red drills for years but have never actually
experienced one firsthand. When it went on lockdown Wednesday, however, I was
entirely prepared to handle it. Our schools taught us how to deal with these
emergencies since elementary school, a skill that was clearly necessary in these
circumstances. So although the focus should still be on the tragedies of
Wednesday, we should take a moment to recognize those schools that guaranteed
that their children remained safe.

Kimberly Tan

Junior, Lynbrook High School San Jose

Afghanistan a mess despite U.S. promises

As the United States and NATO marked 10 years of war in Afghanistan on Friday, a
grim picture emerges from scores of interviews over six months across the
country with ordinary Afghans, government officials, soldiers, and former and
current Taliban, along with recent data. The difference between the often
optimistic assessment of U.S. generals and the reality on the ground for Afghans
is stark.

After more than 30 years of war and chaos, Afghanistan is really a mess. Despite
all the American aid and promises to rebuild the country, it's a wreck. The
capital, Kabul, is becoming more prosperous, but only because that's where most
of the U.S. and coalition troops are based to provide security, and because
that's one of the few places the aid organizations feel safe enough to operate.

But for Afghans, it has been a decade of one step forward and two steps back.
Maybe it's because they have such a short attention span and memory. As one
journalist commented, a short memory is a great boost to self-esteem. It helps
when you can so easily forget the past and tune out reality. Americans can
forget that the country is as bad off as it ever was.

Ted Rudow III

Palo Alto

Sowing the seeds of social dysfunction

The difficulty, despite high unemployment, that some farmers are having in
finding citizen crop pickers, because the work is so hard, illustrates how
damaging it has been for our society to rely on cheap foreign labor to fill many
low-skill jobs. The important message for our society is not that we must or
should remain dependent on cheap foreign labor for certain jobs. We can't thrive
as a society when we condition people to believe that certain jobs are too hard,
dirty or unpleasant to be done by our citizens, and that they have a right to
something easier than what immigrants are expected to do. When we disrespect and
demean essential jobs, we discourage hard work and sow the seeds of social
dysfunction.

Jerry Mucha

San Jose

Adult peers help kids recognize potential

Thank you for your coverage of Silicon Valley Leadership Group's "1,000 Hearts
for 1,000 Minds" volunteer tutoring initiative. Boys & Girls Clubs of Silicon
Valley is proud to be a partner with this innovative project. Many of our club
members need just one positive adult role model in their lives to help inspire
and empower them to realize their full potential. Our daily "power hour"
homework and tutoring programs are already filled with students needing
individual help, causing a critical need for more volunteers at our 11
clubhouses in San Jose. Improving academic performance gives kids a level
springboard for continuing education and a clear path to success. One person can
make a difference in the life of a child.

Dana Fraticelli

Chief Executive Officer Boys & Girls Clubs of Silicon Valley

Having vote counted is constitutional right

The "photo ID for voting" letter by Fred Patton (Letters, Oct. 5) correctly
notes that voting is a constitutional right. He fails to grasp, however, that
this right is reserved for U.S. citizens who can vote only once. It's a rather
simple concept regardless of whether you are a Republican, Democrat or
nonpartisan. What are Patton's dire consequences of requiring a photo ID,
consequences that are "counter to the promise of democracy"? None that he can
state, other than pumping rhetoric. What is the substantive downside of
requiring photo IDs? None. The right for legal citizens to have their vote
counted, and counted once, should not be placed at risk by having illegal votes
treated as legitimate influences in the election process. That is a U.S.
citizen's constitutional right. Nothing more. Nothing less.

Kurt Ayers

Los Altos

Time to reassess role of the military

Friday marked the 10th anniversary of our invasion of Afghanistan and a decade
of waste there, as well as in Iraq, our other corrupt foreign sinkhole. In light
of our economic crisis, maybe now is an ideal time to reassess the role the
military and its supporting industry should play in America's future.

For too long, our nation has failed to rein in the military-industrial complex
that President Dwight D. Eisenhower warned against.

In a nation now addicted to endless war, few question the true value of our
military, the generals' competence, or careerist motivations after a lost decade
half a world away.

Lest these sentiments be considered unpatriotic, perhaps there is more to
patriotism than imperialistic hubris, unquestioned invasions, destruction of
property -- and the killing of people.

Lawrence Pratt

San Jose

'Soak the Rich' theme won't remedy a thing

The Democrats and President Barack Obama are giving multibillionaires Warren
Buffett, Bill Gates and many others a bad rap. They are being called tax evaders
when in reality they are the country's largest philanthropists. Gates has also
formed a program whereby many billionaires give away half their wealth.

Despite all this philanthropy, Obama and the Democrats want to soak the rich.
Taking the heat away from their own lack of performance and placing it squarely
on the backs of the wealthy is quite a scheme.

Can this "Soak the Rich" theme magically turn the economy around by creating
jobs and reducing the debt? Highly unlikely. Obama hopes the theme, if played ad
infinitum, could get him re-elected in 2012.

It's absurd to expect that Obama can fix the economy after the awful mess he
already helped create.

Robert Stiasny

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

U.S. Senate apologizes for decades of anti-Chinese discrimination

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 512 words


Nearly 130 years after it voted to ban Chinese immigrants from entering the
United States, the U.S. Senate expressed its regrets Friday for that law and
decades of racial discrimination against Chinese-Americans.

"This resolution cannot undo the hurt caused by past discrimination against
Chinese immigrants, but it is important that we acknowledge the wrongs that were
committed many years ago," wrote Sen. Scott Brown, R-Mass., the bill's sponsor.

The resolution apologizes for the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act, which explicitly
rejected Chinese immigrants for six decades because of their race, and a number
of other anti-Chinese laws passed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

"I hope this resolution will serve to enlighten those who may not be aware of
this regrettable chapter in our history," wrote Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-San
Francisco, a co-sponsor.

The bill also expresses regrets for racial violence that happened in San
Francisco and cities around the country during that time, and for the
persecution and harsh detention of Chinese migrants at the Angel Island
Immigration Station, which operated from 1910 to 1940 in San Francisco Bay.

Bay Area Chinese-Americans, many of whom have descendants who suffered racist
persecution after reaching the West Coast, celebrated the resolution.

"It's a welcome step forward that really highlights how our country is able to
acknowledge a moral obligation to living up to our ideals," said Eddie Wong,
director of the nonprofit Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation. "This
whole idea of expressing regret, and acknowledging it was a wrongful act of
racial discrimination, is an important thing."

The first Chinese-American woman elected to Congress, U.S. Rep. Judy Chu, D-El
Monte, has proposed a similar apology in the House of Representatives.

Unlike the 1980s federal apology to Japanese-Americans sent to internment camps
during World War II, this one doesn't come with a price tag. The Organization of
Chinese Americans and other civil rights organizations that led the charge to
pass the bill declined to request reparations.

That probably made the legislation an inexpensive "no-brainer" for the Senate,
said Judy Yung, a professor emeritus at UC Santa Cruz who published a book about
Angel Island last year.

"It's about time. It's an important piece of legislation," Yung said. "I think
it's also a reminder of how immigration policies that have discriminated against
any one group have no place in our laws."

Congress did not repeal its exclusionary law against Chinese immigrants until
1943, and immigration was not fully opened to most Asian-Americans until 1965,
Yung said.

"It was passed at a time of intense anti-immigrant, anti-Chinese sentiment, at a
time when the economy was at a downfall. I think we can learn from the lessons
of our past," Yung said.

Now that the economy is doing poorly and immigration is again a heated topic,
Yung said the resolution offers lawmakers a symbolic "way of saying they're not
anti-immigrant, but it's in lieu of really tackling the larger problem of
immigration reform."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Mercury News editorial/slideshow: Dream Act shows that -- thankfully --
California is different

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 510 words


California is different, and there is no better illustration of this truth than
Gov. Jerry Brown's decision to sign the Dream Act. Even as the Republican
candidates for president battle to take the harshest possible stance on
immigration, and the Democratic Obama administration dithers on immigration
reform, the Golden State recognizes the value that immigrants -- particularly
the educated -- bring to our civic and economic life.

California's Dream Act will allow undocumented students who attended high school
here to apply for state aid for college if they meet certain requirements.
They'll qualify for aid only after all legal residents have applied.

Most of these kids were brought here by their parents. Helping them complete
their education and become productive, taxpaying members of society is smart
policy, particularly when you consider the alternatives.

It's also the right thing to do. These young people see themselves as Americans.
Many don't remember their homeland or speak its language.

That's the point Texas Gov. Rick Perry tried to make in a GOP debate last month,
saying that those who opposed his decision to sign a version of the Dream Act
were heartless. The remark may cost Perry, once a front-runner, the nomination.
Even in California, the GOP orthodoxy has no sympathy for young immigrants: On
Monday afternoon, a Republican assemblyman filed for a referendum to repeal the
Dream Act.

The so-called moderate in the GOP presidential race, Mitt Romney, is hitting
Perry on immigration, a sign of just how far right the debate has moved. His new
ad shows former Mexican President Vicente Fox thanking Perry for the Dream Act,
as if an endorsement from Fox is no better than one from Osama bin Laden. It's
shameful.

And then there's Alabama, the latest state to impose a draconian immigration
law. It requires schools and police to check immigration status and nullifies
any contract signed by an undocumented immigrant.

As soon as a court upheld that law last week, the exodus began. Even some
documented workers are leaving rather than break up families. Meanwhile, farmers
can't find citizens willing to pick their crops. Pregnant women are afraid to
seek medical treatment. Parents are keeping kids out of school. And this is
precisely what supporters of this law wanted. Talk about heartless.

We do need federal immigration reform, but it must acknowledge, as Ronald Reagan
did, that it is impossible to deport 12 million people. Demonizing immigrants
for the weak job market and keeping them out of schools damages both our
economic and social well-being.

Here in California, at least the majority in state government has a different
view. Besides the Dream Act, Brown signed several other bills aimed at fair
treatment for all. One blocks making E-Verify checks of immigration status
mandatory for employers. Another limits the ability to impound the cars of
unlicensed drivers, who often are undocumented. Still another protects the
rights of farm workers to unionize.

Yes, this state is different. And Californians should be proud of it.



LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Four more charged in alleged university scam

BYLINE: By Sophia Kazmi Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 501 words


OAKLAND -- Four more people have been charged in connection to a federal visa
fraud investigation of the now-closed Tri-Valley University.

On Tuesday, Vishal Dasa, Anji Reddy Dirisinala, Ramakrishna Reddy Karra and
Tushar Tambe pleaded not guilty in federal court on charges of conspiracy to
commit visa fraud.

The president and founder of the Pleasanton-based school, Susan Su, was indicted
by a federal grand jury in April on 33 counts, including conspiracy to commit
visa fraud, wire fraud, money laundering, alien harboring and making false
statements. She has pleaded not guilty.

According to court documents, the four were charged with crimes related to the
school, which federal investigators say was a scam to help foreign students
achieve legal immigrant status in the United States by paying "tuition and
fees."

The foreign students lived all over the country and were found to not be
physically attending class -- a requirement of having a student visa.

According to federal court documents unsealed Tuesday, an undercover Immigration
Customs Enforcement agent posing as a prospective foreign student met with Dasa,
25, at the school on Boulder Court in Pleasanton in September 2010.

According to court records, the agent told Dasa he was "completely out of
status" in regards to his student visa because he never went to school and
feared he was going to be deported.

"So you need some documents, I will prepare some documents for you," Dasa said.

As they spoke, Dasa prepared the necessary immigration forms, admitted him at
TVU and arranged for work authorization.

The charge for this was $2,800 for tuition and fees, of which $1,000 was due
immediately.

The agent told Dasa he lived in New York, would not be able to attend class at
TVU and he did not have Internet access in New York.

"I will take care of that ... There won't be any problem" Dasa said in response.

A record for that agent was created in ICE's foreign student database. It showed
he was pursuing an MBA and lived in Sunnyvale. The database reflected that the
agent maintained an active student status despite never attending a single
class.

A woman who Dasa called "madam" signed the immigration forms. The woman was
later identified as Su.

Information about the alleged roles of the other three charged with Dasa was not
available. Tri-Valley University operated for three years. It officially shut
down March 17, about two months after federal agents executed search warrants at
the school.

There is an apparent ongoing effort to "save" the university. A website has been
set up to collect monetary donations to help with Su's defense.

This verbatim message is posted on the TVU website: "As the President goes
through this tough process of fighting for her freedom and the effort to save
TVU, Please help with any of your effort -- a warm encouraging word, any legal
assistant, and money donation to fund the defend team -- they are all so
precious and important!"

Contact Sophia Kazmi at 925-847-2122. Follow her at Twitter.com/sophiakazmi .

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Bay Area counties cooperate with federal policy, but not Santa Clara

BYLINE: By Tracy Seipel and Matt O'Brien, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 897 words


As the U.S. announced Tuesday that it had deported a record 396,906 people in
the last year, Santa Clara County supervisors enacted a sweeping new policy
aimed at reducing the county's role in the federal deportation effort.

In a move that immigrant advocates characterized as the "most progressive"
immigration-hold policy in the country, supervisors agreed that the county would
cooperate with the U.S. government in deporting people only if they're serious
felons -- and only if the federal government pays for the costs of detaining
them.

In addition to saving the county money, the policy is designed to prevent
deportation of illegal immigrants arrested for nonviolent crimes or minor
misdemeanors. Those immigrants will now be released from custody before federal
agents can grab them.

Community activists hailed it as a justifiable attack on the U.S. government's
Secure Communities program, which requires local jailers to share the
fingerprints of everyone booked with immigration officials.

But at least one anti-illegal-immigration crusader called the county's move
"preposterous." He said the county was thumbing its nose at immigration
officials who are working to protect communities.

Meanwhile, in Contra Costa County, which leads the Bay Area in deportations
through Secure Communities, Sheriff David Livingston met Tuesday with Latino
leaders upset that the federal-local partnership has deported more than 1,100
people from the county since April 2010.

"We're aghast that we're the highest," said Antonio Medrano, a board member of
the West Contra Costa Unified School District.

By comparison, Santa Clara County, which was drafted into the program in May
2010, saw 972 people deported. Of those, 763 -- or 79 percent -- had criminal
convictions.

Along with having the highest number of Secure Communities deportations, Contra
Costa also has the Bay Area's highest percentage of non-criminals deported
through the program.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which the Obama administration has
instructed to focus on deporting criminals, said 55 percent of those deported
nationwide had committed a felony or misdemeanor, the same rate as in Contra
Costa County.

The agency also said that 90 percent of the people it deported nationwide were
in a "priority category," meaning they had either recently crossed the border,
repeatedly violated civil immigration laws or committed a crime.

Minimal help

Secure Communities has been a centerpiece of President Barack Obama's
immigration enforcement strategy, but immigrant advocates have criticized the
program for catching too many non-criminals and low-level offenders in its net.

In Santa Clara County -- which unsuccessfully tried last year to extricate
itself from the program -- supervisors said they now will use as few county
resources as possible to enforce the program beyond what is legally required.

With Supervisor Mike Wasserman dissenting and Supervisor Liz Kniss absent,
supervisors agreed to a proposal by Supervisor George Shirakawa Jr. that the
county will honor ICE requests to detain immigrants by holding adult inmates
convicted of a serious or violent felony for an additional 24-hour period. The
time extension will allow ICE to assume custody of those individuals.

But the county will agree to detain those prisoners only if there is a prior
written agreement with the federal government that all of the county's costs
related to the detainer would be reimbursed by the feds.

ICE officials, however, say they will come immediately to pick up detainees once
notified. Therefore, they argue, there shouldn't be any extra costs.

"Jurisdictions that ignore detainers are exposing their citizens to possible
public safety risks," said ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice.

Bob Dane, communications director for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a group working to reduce both legal and illegal immigration, said if
the county is concerned about budget problems, "they will have a bunch of that
if they continue to release illegal aliens back into the street. ... It begs the
question, 'For whose benefit is this?' The benefit certainly does not occur to
public safety."

The genesis of the supervisors' action goes back to last year, when they voted
to opt out of the Secure Communities program, said Juniper L. Downs, lead deputy
county counsel.

But immigration officials told the county it had no choice about sharing
information with immigration officials on the front end of the program, when
criminal suspects are arrested.

'Leader in our country'

The board then created a task force to look at what happens on the back end --
which includes requests the county receives from immigration officials asking
the county to hold an individual when that person would otherwise be released
from county custody because he or she had served their time.

Immigration officials request detainers to allow them to come and pick up the
person.

Wasserman said he agreed with the task force's recommendation that anyone
arrested for a crime who had a serious criminal history should be detained. But,
he said, "doing the right thing should not involve getting reimbursed."

In a news conference after the meeting, Shirakawa called the vote historic.

"We are a leader in our country. The entire nation is looking at us," he said.
"From this day forward, we are no longer going to do ICE's job."

Contact Tracy Seipel at 408-275-0140.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday

Joan Aragone: Santa Clara University professor understands Dream Act

BYLINE: By Joan Aragone San Mateo County Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 573 words


Francisco Jimenez, a professor of modern languages and literature at Santa Clara
University and award-winning author of a series of books describing his life as
an immigrant child in the United States, knows how education can change lives.
It changed his.

The Mexican-born Jimenez came to California as a young child with his parents
and older brother. Following the harvests along the far-flung circuit of
California farms and migrant camps, the growing family lived in constant flux.
Working long days besides their parents, the children changed schools
frequently, struggling to learn English and rarely completing an academic year.

But in eighth grade, after authorities learned of the family's undocumented
status and threatened deportation, Jimenez's father took them back to Mexico.
Sponsored by a migrant worker friend who became a U.S. citizen, the family soon
returned, and five years later, Jimenez, by now a high school student, became a
naturalized citizen.

Jimenez recorded his experiences in a series of books, starting in 1997 with
"The Circuit," which has been reprinted in several languages. "The Circuit" and
its successors, "Breaking Through" and "Reaching Out," which takes the narrator
through high school and finally to college, reveal how he found solace and
purpose in learning.

"Growing up I had a sense of instability," Jimenez said in a recent interview.
"Everything in life was uncertain. But I found a constant sense of permanence
from education. No matter what happened, I knew I could take that with me
wherever I went."

So when Gov. Jerry Brown signed the controversial California Dream Act earlier
this month, Jimenez called it "an important first step." The bill allows
qualified undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children and
wish to pursue higher education the right to receive state-based financial aid
for college.

So strong had been the stigma of undocumentation for Jimenez that he never
admitted publicly that he had lived in the U.S. without papers until he was an
established professor.

"I always felt I was a fugitive, always hiding, always fearful," he said. "The
fear and sense of shame go deep."

Critics of the Dream Act claim it reduces funding available for legally
documented students. But, according to Luis Quinonez, a legislative aide to the
man who authored the bill, Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, the Dream Act
focuses on Cal Grants, needs-based funding set aside for any low-income student
who graduated from high school with an eligible GPA and has been admitted to an
accredited college or university.

Competitive grants, awarded to students of various income levels, are separate.
For competitive funding, Dream Act students are considered only after all legal
residents have applied. Between 1,500 and 2,000 students will benefit from the
California Dream Act, Quinonez estimated, since not all undocumented students
meet the academic criteria.

Jimenez is a board member of Alearn, a nonprofit that helps underrepresented
students get to and succeed in college. He also works with the Peninsula College
Fund, which provides scholarships and mentors for children who are the first in
their families to attend college. One of Jimenez's three sons, a professor at
Stanford University, is a mentor for the fund.

"Education helps all of us," Jimenez said. "If a student benefits, we all
benefit. We are all in this together."

Contact Joan Aragone at 650-348-4332.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday

Mercury News editorial: Santa Clara County's new immigration policy needs
watching

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 492 words


The controversy over Santa Clara County's new policy on working with immigration
authorities -- or rather, not working with them -- has gone nuclear.

To hear some county supervisors and the county executive rip into Sheriff Laurie
Smith and District Attorney Jeff Rosen, you'd think the two were wing nuts out
to deport anybody who looks at them sideways. They are far from it -- but their
unexpected opposition to the new county immigration policy did come annoyingly
late: Both knew about the proposal more than a week before the board of
supervisors approved it, but neither spoke up until Mercury News reporter Tracy
Seipel called them after last week's vote. They fear the policy will result in
dangerous people being released into the community instead of being deported.

Everybody needs to stand down, put the verbal nukes back in their silos and
discuss this rationally. The policy is in place, so let's track the results and
reassess it in four or six months. If Smith and Rosen are right, the board can
amend it.

The immediate issue is whether the county should honor requests from the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE, to hold prisoners for
its agents after the county has concluded the cases. Rosen and, more
reluctantly, Smith had gone along with an earlier proposal to honor the ICE
holds for prisoners accused of serious or violent crimes but to release minor,
one-time offenders. Supervisor George Shirakawa shifted the plan to refusing all
ICE holds unless the agency agreed to pay the costs -- which it won't.

The underlying problem is that ICE's misnamed Secure Communities program aims to
engage local police in immigration enforcement. This has undermined immigrant
communities' trust in the police, making people afraid to report crime as a
witness or even a victim. It's an atmosphere that makes everyone, citizen or
not, less safe. Advocates of the new county policy say public safety will
improve when people no longer associate local officers with deportation.

Most violent offenders end up in state prisons, which turn them over to ICE when
sentences are complete. But some do stay in the county. And the new policy is
likely to mean more suspects will get out on bail. In some cases, such as
gangsters, this is indeed worrisome. It's one thing to track.

County officials and community activists are accusing Smith and Rosen of
grandstanding and fear mongering. We don't see it. Rosen in particular has been
sensitive to immigrant concerns: He has implemented an enlightened policy in his
office to consider whether a plea bargain might trigger deportation, which would
be a disproportionate punishment for some crimes. As the county's top elected
law enforcement officials, Rosen and Smith have standing to comment on the ICE
policy and an obligation to speak their minds.

We just wish they'd spoken them sooner. The policy might not have changed, but
the unseemly anger in its wake could have been avoided.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith now opposes the county's new
immigration policy. (Karen T. Borchers/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

California employers embrace E-Verify

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 1605 words


Illegal immigrants will have a harder time securing a job -- some jobs, at least
-- as more Bay Area employers screen new hires through an immigration records
check.

From corporate giants Apple ( AAPL ) and Chevron to the organic-friendly grocer
Berkeley Bowl and the nonprofit Kaiser Permanente health care organization, more
than 26,000 employers in the state have signed up for the federal E-Verify
program that checks the immigration status of employees.

As a growing number of states require public and private employers to use
E-Verify, California has gone out of its way to make it voluntary, passing a law
this month that bans local governments from forcing firms to use electronic
verification.

Still, the number of California job sites using E-Verify to scrutinize their
workers -- usually on the first few days on the job -- increased by 37 percent
to more than 90,000 from a year ago, according to government records. The state
has more job sites using the electronic verification system than any other.

Some firms voluntarily run their employees through the E-Verify database in
hopes of avoiding government audits or immigration raids that could lead to
fines or damage their brands. Federal contractors participate because they must.
When E-Verify flags work documents as suspicious, employees can challenge the
Department of Homeland Security or quit. About 2.5 million workers in California
had their paperwork audited through the system in the past year.

Retailers have been particularly eager to join in recent months, said attorney
Ann Cun, of San Ramon-based workplace consultants INSZoom. That could affect who
gets hired as stores and warehouses prepare for the annual surge of temporary
work over the holidays.

A Target store in Walnut Creek made news just before Christmas 2009 when an
internal audit forced out 40 immigrant workers on the overnight shift.

Immigration agents have conducted their own investigations of companies across
the state -- usually in low-key visits to audit I-9 forms and occasionally in a
splashy public raid. All these probes make businesses worried.

"Employers have been finding out about the E-Verify program mainly after reading
about these raids," Cun said. "That's usually what triggers companies to
evaluate whether they want to enroll."

Bad for agriculture?

For all the companies in the state joining E-Verify, however, hundreds of
thousands have not, and agriculture is among the least represented industries,
according to a list of E-Verify users obtained by this newspaper.

"There is one industry that I believe has historically shown it relies on
foreign labor, and that's agriculture," said U.S. Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Gold
River.

The Central Valley lawmaker reflects the mixed feelings many Californians have
about E-Verify. Eighteen other states have made E-Verify use a requirement for
some or all employers. California did the opposite this month, banning itself
and local jurisdictions from mandating the program. The bill by Assemblyman Paul
Fong, D-Cupertino, which takes effect Jan. 1, was backed by immigrant advocates
but also the California Chamber of Commerce and agriculture groups.

"Overall, for the companies that have chosen to voluntarily participate, it's
worked very, very well," Lungren said of E-Verify. "It's not a fail-safe system,
but it's miles ahead of everything else."

However, forcing E-Verify on all employers would devastate California's
agricultural economy if the mandate is not coupled with another source of farm
labor, Lungren said.

"You're going to destroy agriculture in a very real sense," he said. "I don't
think I'm being an alarmist about that."

E-Verify politics

E-Verify is emerging as a hot topic ahead of the 2012 presidential election, but
perspectives do not always fall along simple party lines.

Proponents say enacting E-Verify everywhere could deter illegal immigration more
effectively than any border wall by denying all jobs to illegal immigrants.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has made mandatory E-Verify a key
talking point on the campaign trail, and the House Judiciary Committee has
already approved a bill -- the Legal Workforce Act -- that would make the
electronic system mandatory and replace I-9 forms. Most Democrats oppose the
bill.

Among E-Verify's most vocal opponents are business interests, immigrant
advocates and some tea party libertarians who believe the system is too
intrusive.

"There's a lot of uncertainty," said Cun, expressing concerns she said
businesses have raised. "All this data is collected as you're punching it in.
What's going to happen to all that data in five years? We don't know."

The U.S. Government Accountability Office said errors persist in the way
E-Verify works. The process misses some illegal immigrants and misidentifies
some authorized workers. Because it has a hard time picking up identity fraud,
it may miss about half of all undocumented workers, according to a report
produced for the Department of Homeland Security.

Economic impact

Opponents also point to places such as Alabama, where farmers blame new
immigration restrictions for scaring away workers they depend on. A study
released this month compared sanctuary cities that left illegal immigrants alone
with those, such as California's Lancaster, that mandated E-Verify use locally.

"Those who are proponents of restrictive ordinances would say, 'That's exactly
what we're trying to do.' But we're not looking just at the effect on
immigrants," said Jason Marczak, policy director for the Americas
Society/Council of the Americas. "We're looking at the overall effect on the
number of jobs, the number of employees and the city as a whole."

"Restrictive ordinances are bad for business, and nonrestrictive ordinances are
comparatively better for the business environment," Marczak said.

Lungren said he would support E-Verify across the country if Congress also
passed a better guest-worker program that would bring in seasonal farm labor. A
guest-worker program already exists, but Lungren said it is ineffective for most
farm employers and last month he introduced a bill for a new guest worker visa
that would allow foreign workers to stay for up to 10 months and would not
require employers to house them.

Early adopters

Not all food-related businesses have resisted E-Verify. Among the earliest
adopters was the meatpacking and processing industry, which experimented with
electronic verification in the late 1990s, before it was called E-Verify.

"When you're in that kind of industry, whether it's clothing-making or
animal-processing, you get a lot of illegal immigrants trying to get those
jobs," said Jeremy Russell, spokesman for the Oakland-based National Meat
Association. "It's easier for ICE to target us for raids. You have a big
factory."

Fear of raids put meatpacking plants at the forefront of electronic
verification. "It's easier for ICE to target us for raids. You have a big
factory," Russell said.

But it also created a false sense of security, Russell said. One early adopter,
Swift & Co., was raided in six states in 2006, in part because E-Verify was not
flagging the workers who used stolen Social Security numbers.

"That raid really put it on the map for everybody. You can't just turn on
E-Verify and say everything's fine," Russell said.

Database editor Daniel Willis contributed to this report.

How E-Verify works

Every new employee must file a federal I-9 form verifying their right to work in
the United States, but E-Verify adds another layer of verification to the hiring
process. The electronic system instantly checks I-9 data and photographs against
millions of records from the Social Security Administration and the Department
of Homeland Security.
Of the 15.6 million queries submitted to E-Verify in the 2010 fiscal year, 98.3
percent were confirmed to be legal workers in less than five seconds, according
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. The other 1.7 percent are called
"tentative nonconfirmations."
Employees not immediately authorized can contest the findings, and the
Department of Homeland Security will do a manual records check. About 18 percent
-- 47,000 employees -- were found to be legal workers after a challenge. Of the
remaining 218,000, most quit.


Who uses E-Verify?

As of Oct. 22, there were 297,433 employers nationwide using E-Verify,
representing 968,981 job sites.
Of those numbers, 26,125 employers and 90,318 job sites are in California.
California has the most job sites using E-Verify and the second most employers
after Arizona, where E-Verify use is required.
According to a government database, a sampling of Bay Area employers that use
E-Verify includes:

Retailers: The Gap, Ross Dress for Less, Williams-Sonoma, Cost Plus
Schools: UC Berkeley, Stanford University, Oakland Unified School District,
Morgan Hill Unified School District
Tech: Facebook, Apple, Oracle, Intel, Hewlett-Packard
Restaurants: Chipotle Mexican Grill, Black Angus Steakhouse, Baskin-Robbins,
Sizzler USA

For a list of every California employer with at least five employees signed up
for E-Verify, go to www.insidebayarea.com or www.contracostatimes.com . Not
included on the list are out-of-state E-Verify users, such as Walmart, that
employ workers in California.


States and E-Verify

States with the most job sites using E-Verify:
California 90,318
Arizona 74,235
Texas 55,420
Georgia 54,182
New York 52,370
Florida 49,428
Pennsylvania 42,655
Missouri 41,707
North Carolina 35,851
Virginia 35,311
Note: Arizona has required all employers to use E-Verify since 2008. Georgia,
Missouri, North Carolina and Virginia require it for some employers, usually
public agencies or their contractors.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

George Shirakawa: Santa Clara County's decision on immigrant detainers is
morally right and good public policy

BYLINE: By George Shirakawa Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 647 words


As chair of Santa Clara County's Public Safety and Justice Committee, it's my
responsibility to develop public policy that strengthens community safety while
ensuring that justice is served equally to all residents. In this county, those
convicted of serious, violent, or sex-related crimes will be prosecuted to the
fullest extent of the law. This county also ensures that those accused of a
crime are afforded their constitutional rights of due process.

The recent board of supervisors' decision to not collaborate with federal
Immigration, Customs and Enforcement (ICE) on civil detainer requests without
federal reimbursement has raised questions about the county's commitment to
public safety. The critics of this policy have attempted to frame the argument
as a tough on crime versus soft on crime issue. That's just not the case. The
board's action on civil detainer requests is good public policy that has a basis
in moral integrity.

Let's start with the public policy issue. The policy has no impact on how the
county deals with crime. For every individual booked into county custody on
criminal charges, the courts impose and oversee appropriate punishment. The
criminal justice system has adequate safeguards to protect public safety, and
those safeguards will remain in place.

The board did not vote to release anyone into the community who is not otherwise
eligible to be released. Inmates are only released from custody once they have
served their time and have earned their freedom. Or, while charges are pending,
a judge may determine that it is safe to release an inmate on bail or on their
own recognizance until they are ordered to appear in court.

What this policy does is ensure that everyone in our system is treated equally.
United States citizens charged with crimes are released on bail every day. There
is no justifiable reason to treat people's criminal cases differently just
because they are suspected of having civil immigration issues. The county has no
authority to enforce civil immigration laws. Immigration enforcement is ICE's
job.

The board's decision is good public policy. If the county is seen as an
extension of ICE, the county loses the community's trust, and people are less
likely to report crime or to serve as witnesses. Thus crimes go unreported,
compromising public safety. We ought to spend resources focusing on serious
crimes, not determining the immigration status of people. ICE has many other
ways of investigating persons of interest. Spending county resources to do ICE's
job is irresponsible public policy.

There are those who believe that being undocumented is a crime. To subscribe to
the belief that the undocumented have no rights in this country because they are
here illegally, one would have to start with the premise that all laws are
morally right. History is littered with laws that were morally wrong, tore apart
families, and were ultimately overturned by the American people. Mexican
repatriation in the 1930s, segregation, and Japanese-American internment are
just a few that fall into this category.

The U.S. Constitution outlines how those accused of crimes should be treated.
Treating those accused of a criminal offense differently because they crossed
our borders illegally fundamentally violates the sacred American principles of
equality and fairness. As the country wrestles with immigration reform, the
American people have not made a final judgment on the legal issues. However, the
moral issue of treating people equally is clear.

While the federal government continues to struggle with immigration reform, the
County of Santa Clara has taken a position that all those accused of a crime
will be treated equally without compromising public safety and without regard to
immigration status.

GEORGE SHIRAKAWA represents District 2 on the Santa Clara County Board of
Supervisors. He wrote this for mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

Occupy Oakland protester could be deported

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646 words


OAKLAND -- The peaceful arrest of a meditating protester outside Oakland City
Hall has become an iconic image of Monday's eviction of the Occupy Oakland camp.

Now, Francisco "Pancho" Ramos Stierle could be deported, protesters and law
enforcement officials say.

Federal agents put an immigration hold on the 36-year-old Oakland activist as he
was detained in an Alameda County jail, said spokeswoman Virginia Kice of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Ramos Stierle, originally from Mexico City, was smiling and calm when Oakland
police officers arrested him shortly before dawn Monday at the Frank H. Ogawa
Plaza amphitheater.

He and two other protesters who sat beside him spent the predawn hours quietly
meditating -- eyes closed and legs crossed in a yoga-like pose -- as helicopters
buzzed overhead, riot police surrounded the camp and most other protesters
evacuated the plaza.

As police officers lifted him up and handcuffed him, he slipped on his shoes and
was escorted away. A photograph of the arrest appeared on the front page of this
newspaper Tuesday morning. He was one of 32 people arrested in the camp.

Charged with refusing to disperse and loitering, he is scheduled to be arraigned
Wednesday on those misdemeanor charges in a county court.

At some point after he was booked, however, his fingerprints were run through
the federal Secure Communities immigration database and federal agents flagged
him as an immigrant who could be subject to deportation.

About 40 friends and supporters protested Tuesday afternoon outside the North
County Jail in downtown Oakland to demand his release, although police records
indicate that Ramos Stierle had been sent to the Santa Rita Jail in Dublin on
Monday.

They formed a meditation circle amid signs declaring "Free Pancho!" Sheriff's
deputies in riot gear and holding shotguns guarded the jail from behind a
window.

On the eve of the police raid, Occupy Oakland's nightly general assembly voted
215-8, with 11 abstentions, to declare their camp a "sanctuary for all
immigrants with or without papers."

Some protesters cautiously objected, expressing concerns about calling the plaza
a sanctuary if they had no power to prevent arrests.

It is routine now for police to transfer arrested immigrants to federal custody
if they are living in the country illegally or commit a crime that makes them
deportable. All Bay Area counties joined the Secure Communities
fingerprint-sharing network last year. Friends believe that Ramos Stierle had
been here on a student visa, but he dropped out of a UC Berkeley graduate
program in 2008.

His friends also say Ramos Stierle was aware of the consequences of his arrest
when he stayed in the plaza. "There was an intentionality to what he was doing,"
said friend Randall Amster of Arizona. "He was attempting to bring peace to a
space that had a lack of peace for the past couple weeks."

Amster called his friend a "very strong nonviolent activist" and a "force of
love" involved in causes ranging from nuclear disarmament and environmentalism
to immigrant rights and nonviolence in Oakland's Fruitvale district, where he
lives.

"The Earth is but one country and the humankind its citizens," Ramos Stierle
told a high school classroom in Concord in 2006, according to a Contra Costa
Times article about his visit.

Ramos Stierle identified himself at the time as a graduate astrophysics student
at UC Berkeley.

He resigned from that program in 2008, in part because he did not want to be
involved in a department that helped develop nuclear weaponry, said friend
Carmen Anderson, who studied astrophysics as a UC Berkeley undergraduate when
Ramos Stierle was there.

"He really is employed as a full-time citizen of the world," Amster said.
"That's one of his mantras, and he definitely takes that seriously."

Staff writers Thomas Peele, Matthias Gafni and Harry Harris contributed to this
story.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

Times Nov. 16 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Letters from our readers Contra Costa Times © Copyright 2011, Bay Area
News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 693 words


Americans should avoid all imports

What is wrong with people? There's no common sense! These folks who occupy
cities, though well-meaning, are not using their intelligence at all.

The root of America's problems lies with joblessness. The reason for joblessness
is the outsourcing of those jobs to foreign countries. The solution: Don't
purchase anything not made in America.

People love to make noise and roam cities disturbing others. But those same
people refuse to boycott foreign products because they would have to do without,
as U.S. business is not producing the people's favorite products.

Americans are spoiled. You can live without so many products, and you should
live without them so that Big Business suffers. Sooner or later, Americans will
find jobs opening for them as U.S. business leaders find their profits eroding
and again start producing what we want right here in America.

Dee Knight

Walnut Creek

Economy harmed by illegal immigrants

I don't feel sorry for the small-business owners who are being forced out of
business. Don't they realize that hiring illegal immigrants will be the downfall
of the U.S.?

Billions of dollars a year are being sent out of this country by way of money
the immigrants send back home. How do they expect America to survive very long
with that kind of hemorrhage?

Fewer jobs for Americans means less money to be spent on their businesses.
Actually, we should not allow any money to be sent out of this country. This is
the custom of other countries.

It is making us bankrupt. Why aren't business owners smarter? Having foreigners
in this country does not work. Illegal immigrants cost us $13 billion a year:
free health care, education, welfare, housing and much more. Disallowing this
drain would be an incentive to go home voluntarily. Of course, the Democrats
would not agree because they want their votes. Amnesty is really all about
votes, votes, votes. Americans must learn how to take care of their country.

Ross Steindel

Concord

Chevron fumes bother residents

For the past month, large portions of Richmond -- particularly from Point
Richmond to Point Pinole, and from Point Richmond east to about Harbour Way --
have been inundated for days on end with fumes from Chevron's Richmond refinery.

I'm asthmatic and have had a cough the entire month. It's outrageous that the
Bay Area Air Quality Management District hasn't closed them down and that
Richmond officials have permitted the refinery to do these flares all month so
Chevron can make itself billions of dollars while harming the inhabitants of
Richmond and surrounding communities.

Phyllis Mandel

Richmond

Occupy Berkeley camp needs to be closed

As I entered North Berkeley's Wells Fargo office Nov. 5 for Bank Transfer Day,
to express my support for the bank and my thanks for 40 years of caring for my
money, I considered recent articles I'd read about Berkeley's disappointment at
not getting enough Occupy attention.

I propose that Mayor Tom Bates, with Rep. Barbara Lee's support, close down the
Occupy Berkeley camp for public health and safety reasons, to eliminate costs to
the city, and because they violate city ordinances.

Berkeley led the way in the 1960s (painful memories for many of us Berkeley
natives). Let Berkeley lead the way in 2011. That will get some attention.

Jeanne Gray Loughman

Albany

Upset with ticket amnesty program

I recently received a speeding ticket for going 60 mph on a bridge (the speed
limit is 50 mph). While frustrated with myself for speeding and frustrated with
California for ticketing people to collect revenue, I accepted my consequence,
paid my ticket and took an online traffic school course.

Imagine my dismay when I read about the new California Superior Court's ticket
amnesty program, which allows those delinquent in the their ticket payment a 50
percent discount to pay it now: http://articles.sfgate.com/2011-10-14
/bay-area/30282367_1_traffic-ticket-parking-tickets-drivers-with-unpaid-tickets.

Rewarding those who continue to break the law is fabulous -- very California. Is
there a way to help those who got a ticket and followed the protocol on time
receive the 50 percent discount as well?

Beth Unland

Walnut Creek

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Latinos caught in a fog of disrespect

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 715 words


For Latino voters, the 2012 election will likely come down to a choice between
two things they hold dear: loyalty and respect.

If they want to be loyal to a brand name that they have supported for the last
50 years, Latinos will vote Democratic to re-elect Barack Obama. Just like
Latino grandmothers who buy the same laundry detergent for decades, they'll do
it without even thinking about it.

That's just as well because if Latinos really thought about it, they'd see the
catch: If they want to be respected, there's no way they can vote for Obama.

The president has shown that he has zero respect for Latinos. His insults come
in three phases.

In Phase 1, Obama cynically uses the removal of undocumented Latino immigrants
to win over groups of voters he cares more about: white suburbanites, union
members, African-Americans, working-class Americans who compete for jobs with
illegal immigrants, etc.

In Phase 2, he disregards the immeasurable pain being afflicted upon immigrant
families by his deportation policies, which have left thousands of children
without mothers or fathers.

Some of them might have been due special consideration. Many of the children
left behind are U.S. citizens, a factor that -- under past administrations --
might have helped keep their parents out of the clutches of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. With monthly quotas to fill and the deportation machine on
overdrive, those days are over. According to data obtained by the Applied
Research Center through the Freedom of Information Act, in the first half of
this year, the Obama administration -- as part of nearly 397,000 deportations in
fiscal 2011 -- carried out more than 46,000 deportations of parents with a
U.S.-born child. Between 1998 and 2007 -- that is, during the second half of the
Clinton administration and most of the George W. Bush administration -- only
about 8 percent of deportees had U.S.-citizen children. Also, it took two
presidents nine years to rack up, between them, 2.2 million deportations. Obama
has removed nearly 1.2 million in less than three years.

The administration lies about whether DREAM Act students are being deported,
about Republicans being the only obstacle to immigration reform, about whether
the president has the executive power to stop deportations, about whether the
administration is really conducting serious evaluations of pending deportation
cases, about whether ICE is using prosecutorial discretion to limit removal
proceedings to bad actors, and, more recently, about whether most of the people
deported since Obama took office were serious "criminals" as opposed to people
who simply ran stoplights, or had old felonies for which they served time, or
re-entered the country once deported.

The fog from this administration is so thick I find that -- consistent with the
adage that ignorance is bliss -- the Latino backers of Obama who are the most
blissful are also the most ignorant of his record. Many turn a blind eye by
telling themselves that electing a Republican would be worse.

Which brings us to Phase 3, where, in the biggest insult of all, Obama has the
gall to drive this point home -- just in case any Latino voters out there might
have missed it, rubbing their noses in the fact that they have few viable
choices in 2012. Obama recently told a group of Latino media members that his
re-election campaign could win Latino votes just by running ads showing the GOP
debates.

According to Univision, the Spanish-language network, the campaigner in chief
told media members: ''I don't think it requires us to go negative in the sense
of us running a bunch of ads that are false, or character assassinations. It
will be based on facts. ... We may just run clips of the Republican debates
verbatim. We won't even comment on them, we'll just run those in a loop on
Univision and Telemundo, and people can make up their own minds."

Can you believe the arrogance of this guy? He sends out these messages with
Spanish-language media because he thinks most Americans won't hear it.

Then, putting salsa on the taco, Obama added: "That's not to say the Latino
community is going to think my administration is perfect. But I think they know
where my heart is."

What heart?

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Latinos caught in a fog of disrespect

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 715 words


For Latino voters, the 2012 election will likely come down to a choice between
two things they hold dear: loyalty and respect.

If they want to be loyal to a brand name that they have supported for the last
50 years, Latinos will vote Democratic to re-elect Barack Obama. Just like
Latino grandmothers who buy the same laundry detergent for decades, they'll do
it without even thinking about it.

That's just as well because if Latinos really thought about it, they'd see the
catch: If they want to be respected, there's no way they can vote for Obama.

The president has shown that he has zero respect for Latinos. His insults come
in three phases.

In Phase 1, Obama cynically uses the removal of undocumented Latino immigrants
to win over groups of voters he cares more about: white suburbanites, union
members, African-Americans, working-class Americans who compete for jobs with
illegal immigrants, etc.

In Phase 2, he disregards the immeasurable pain being afflicted upon immigrant
families by his deportation policies, which have left thousands of children
without mothers or fathers.

Some of them might have been due special consideration. Many of the children
left behind are U.S. citizens, a factor that -- under past administrations --
might have helped keep their parents out of the clutches of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement. With monthly quotas to fill and the deportation machine on
overdrive, those days are over. According to data obtained by the Applied
Research Center through the Freedom of Information Act, in the first half of
this year, the Obama administration -- as part of nearly 397,000 deportations in
fiscal 2011 -- carried out more than 46,000 deportations of parents with a
U.S.-born child. Between 1998 and 2007 -- that is, during the second half of the
Clinton administration and most of the George W. Bush administration -- only
about 8 percent of deportees had U.S.-citizen children. Also, it took two
presidents nine years to rack up, between them, 2.2 million deportations. Obama
has removed nearly 1.2 million in less than three years.

The administration lies about whether DREAM Act students are being deported,
about Republicans being the only obstacle to immigration reform, about whether
the president has the executive power to stop deportations, about whether the
administration is really conducting serious evaluations of pending deportation
cases, about whether ICE is using prosecutorial discretion to limit removal
proceedings to bad actors, and, more recently, about whether most of the people
deported since Obama took office were serious "criminals" as opposed to people
who simply ran stoplights, or had old felonies for which they served time, or
re-entered the country once deported.

The fog from this administration is so thick, I find that -- consistent with the
adage that ignorance is bliss -- the Latino backers of Obama who are the most
blissful are also the most ignorant of his record. Many turn a blind eye by
telling themselves that electing a Republican would be worse.

Which brings us to Phase 3, where, in the biggest insult of all, Obama has the
gall to drive this point home -- just in case any Latino voters out there might
have missed it, rubbing their noses in the fact that they have few viable
choices in 2012. Obama recently told a group of Latino media members that his
re-election campaign could win Latino votes just by running ads showing the GOP
debates.

According to Univision, the Spanish-language network, the campaigner in chief
told media members: "I don't think it requires us to go negative in the sense of
us running a bunch of ads that are false, or character assassinations. It will
be based on facts. ... We may just run clips of the Republican debates verbatim.
We won't even comment on them, we'll just run those in a loop on Univision and
Telemundo, and people can make up their own minds."

Can you believe the arrogance of this guy? He sends out these messages with
Spanish-language media because he thinks most Americans won't hear it.

Then, putting salsa on the taco, Obama added: "That's not to say the Latino
community is going to think my administration is perfect. But I think they know
where my heart is."

What heart?

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Supporters rally against deportation for detained Occupy Oakland protester

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1004 words


OAKLAND -- Alameda County officials said Wednesday they have no authority to
stop immigration agents from detaining and deporting an Occupy Oakland protester
who was arrested while meditating outside City Hall.

The District Attorney's office dropped misdemeanor charges against 36-year-old
activist Pancho Ramos Stierle for loitering and refusing to disperse from Frank
H. Ogawa Plaza as riot police were clearing out the Occupy encampment there on
Monday.

But while the criminal charges were dropped on Wednesday afternoon, a federal
immigration hold on Ramos Stierle remains in effect and friends fear he could be
deported to Mexico.

"I don't have the authority to go against the federal government," said Alameda
County Superior Court Commissioner Karen Rodrigue, speaking to dozens of Ramos
Stierle's supporters who came to his arraignment in a downtown courthouse.

The peace activist was among those arrested as riot police cleared the Occupy
encampment in a predawn raid Monday.

He had been meditating on the plaza for more than three hours as police officers
surrounded the camp and most other protesters fled.

After he was booked in a county jail, a federal fingerprints database flagged
him as a deportable immigrant from Mexico. Agents from U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement sent a note to jailers asking him to be held.

The activist's lawyers argued on Wednesday that the note -- called an
immigration detainer -- is merely a request for local authorities to keep him
detained, not a demand, and that the county has the ability to reject it.

"Our position is that they don't have to honor the hold. That's clear as day,"
said lawyer Francisco Ugarte. "The federal government has said the hold is a
request."

The sheriff's department and district attorney's office disagreed.

"The sheriff's department is going to pay attention to what the feds tell them
to do," said Deputy District Attorney Josefa James, speaking in the courtroom to
one of Ramos Stierle's lawyers.

On the immigration hold, James said, "we don't have anything to do with it, but
there's nothing we can do about it, either."

About 50 activists and friends formed a meditation circle outside the courtroom
and shared stories about Ramos Stierle as they awaited his arraignment.

Equipped with notepads, pens, cellphones and laptops, they spent hours making
phone calls and writing emails and handwritten letters to local authorities.

"We all have the responsibility to do the right thing, and we're asking
(District Attorney) Nancy O'Malley to do the right thing in this instance," said
his lawyer, Yolanda Huang.

O'Malley did not return a request for comment.

Although Ramos Stierle is now in the county's custody, not the city's, Huang
said county and federal authorities should respect ordinances approved by the
Oakland City Council, which declared the city a sanctuary for all immigrants --
first in 1986, and then again in 2007.

"He was arrested on city property," Huang said. "He was arrested by Oakland
police officers. And he's been held in the city of Oakland."

However, that "City of Refuge" policy has not been enforced, especially since
Alameda County and all other Bay Area counties joined the federal Secure
Communities network last year. Fingerprints of everyone arrested by local police
get automatically sent to a federal database, which flags arrestees who appear
to be immigrants subject to deportation, either because they are in the country
illegally or committed a crime.

Lawyers and immigration authorities have declined to discuss how Ramos Stierle
was able to live in the U.S. and whether or not he had permission to be living
here.

"We are not at liberty to disclose further details about Mr. Stierle's
immigration history," said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman
Virginia Kice, citing privacy restrictions. The agency has also not said if it
intends to take custody of Ramos Stierle, but it did ask the county to keep him
detained until agents decide if they wish to pick him up.

Lawyers said the immigration agency has 48 hours after the arraignment, which
was late on Wednesday afternoon, to make that determination.

Friends said Ramos Stierle was from Mexico City and had studied at UC Berkeley
on a student visa.

He dropped out of a graduate astrophysics program at the university in 2008 and
became a full-time activist, they said.

A resident of Oakland's Fruitvale district, he gathered fruits from neighborhood
trees and leftover organic produce from farmers markets and distributed the food
for free to residents who needed it. He was involved in a range of causes, from
immigrant rights to environmentalism, and had protested the city's gang
injunctions. Much like a Buddhist monk, he lived off a "gift economy," supported
by friends he inspired through his activism and secular spirituality.

"He only rides bikes," said friend Miriam Dowd, visiting the courtroom
Wednesday. "He calls gasoline 'dinosaur juice.'"

Inspired by Gandhi, Ramos Stierle spent each Monday in silence, communicating
only through writing. He was following that practice when Oakland police
officers approached him after 6 a.m. Monday and arrested him.

When they asked him questions, he answered on a notepad. He maintained the vow
of silence all day in the county jail, but cracked a smile every once in a
while, said cellmate Paul Bloom of San Francisco.

"He was doing nothing but being a peaceful presence. That was our intention,"
said Adelaja Simon, 24, who was meditating with Ramos Stierle and another
activist when the three of them were arrested. Simon, Bloom and more than 30
other arrested protesters were released later that day, but Ramos Stierle was
kept in the county's custody because of the immigration hold.

Simon said Ramos Stierle was conscious of his actions and he did not feel
worried about what would happen to his friend.

"He's calm and he's present, and wherever he lands, he'll still stand for love
and he'll keep doing good work for the community," Simon said.

Staff writer Robert Salonga contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Supporters of "Pancho" Francisco Ramos-Stierle form a meditation circle
outside department 107 at the Wiley C. Manuel Superior Courthouse in Oakland,
Calif., on Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2011 during his scheduled arraignment. The
arraignment ended up being delayed to 2:00 pm. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Supporters of "Pancho" Francisco Ramos-Stierle form a meditation circle outside
Department 107 in support of Ramos-Stierle at the time of his arraignment at the
Wiley C. Manuel Superior Courthouse in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday, Nov. 16,
2011. His arraignment was delayed to 2:00 pm. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Supporters of "Pancho" Francisco Ramos-Stierle huddle around criminal lawyer
Yoland Huang for news of his case at the Wiley C. Manuel Superior Courthouse in
Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday, Nov. 16, 2011 after his arraignment was delayed
to 2:00 pm. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Friends and supporters of Pancho Ramos Stierle attend a rally for him at the
Alameda County jail on Seventh Street on Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2011 in Oakland,
Calif. Stierle, of Oakland, was arrested on Nov. 14 when Oakland police raided
the Occupy Oakland encampment at Frank Ogawa Plaza. Stierle is currently at
Santa Rita Jail in Dublin. (Jane Tyska/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

Immigration agents release Occupy Oakland activist

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 543 words


OAKLAND -- Federal immigration agents on Thursday detained an Occupy Oakland
protester who had been arrested while meditating outside Oakland City Hall, but
then released him a few hours later.

Francisco "Pancho" Ramos Stierle, an immigrant from Mexico, was released on his
own recognizance but must now appear before an immigration judge on a future
date.

"It will be up to the immigration courts to determine whether he has a legal
basis to remain in the United States," said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The immigration agency, known as ICE, picked up the 36-year-old activist
Thursday morning at Santa Rita Jail in Dublin and took him to federal detention
in San Francisco.

His attorney, Yolanda Huang, was frustrated that Alameda County officials said
they had no authority to stop Ramos Stierle from being handed over to ICE,
believing they "passed the buck."

A county court commissioner and representatives from the district attorney and
sheriff's offices all said they had no authority over a federal immigration
matter.

Oakland police arrested Ramos Stierle before dawn Monday as they were clearing
out the Occupy encampment at Frank H. Ogawa Plaza. He and two other activists
had been meditating for hours in the plaza's amphitheater as riot police
surrounded the camp and ordered everyone to disperse.

Ramos Stierle and 31 other protesters were arrested at the plaza and booked into
a county jail. The other protesters were released later that day, but ICE asked
the county to hold Ramos Stierle after a fingerprint check with the federal
Secure Communities immigration database flagged him as deportable.

The District Attorney's Office dropped all protest-related charges against Ramos
Stierle on Wednesday but said it could not undo the federal hold. Huang
criticized the office for that decision.

"The state of Illinois has declared it is not mandatory. The county of Santa
Clara has said it's voluntary and San Francisco has said it's voluntary," she
said. "Just because someone tells you you have to comply, doesn't make you a
robot."

Raymond Lara, deputy counsel for Alameda County, said the county's approach to
federal immigration detainers is the "sheriff's policy."

"The position of the Sheriff's Office is if the federal agency puts a hold on
someone, we honor that hold," said sheriff's spokesman Sgt. J.D. Nelson. "We're
not privy to all the information on why that hold is placed on someone."

Friends have said Ramos Stierle came to the Bay Area on a student visa to enter
a graduate science program at UC Berkeley, but that visa expired after he
dropped out in 2008. He became a full-time community activist and peace
advocate.

Huang said lawyers asked ICE to use its discretion to let him go.

The Obama administration has said since the summer that it will focus on
deporting criminals while halting the deportation of some immigrants with strong
community ties and no criminal record. By that definition, said Huang, Ramos
Stierle deserves to stay in Oakland.

"What Pancho was doing is he was feeding the poor and teaching meditation
sessions in the Fruitvale," she said. "But rather than keeping this person who
was contributing to the community, we're deporting him. That makes no sense
whatsoever."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama immigration policies destroy families with American
children

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 589 words


WASHINGTON -- Family reunification: A long-standing principle of U.S.
immigration policy.

Family separation: The unforgivable result of the Obama administration's
unprincipled deportation policy.

How bad can it get when an administration boosts the number of deportations to
score political points with voters who are anxious about illegal immigration, in
large part because they're worried about unsecure borders and changing
demographics?

Real bad. A new report by the Applied Research Center found that, from January
to June of this year, the Obama administration deported more than 46,000 parents
with U.S.-born children. According to ARC, which filed a request under the
Freedom of Information Act to get the statistics from the Department of Homeland
Security, that figure represents more than 22 percent of all people deported in
the first half of 2011.

This is a dramatic departure from how things were done under the administrations
of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. From 1998 to 2007, the last period for which
similar statistics are available, only about 8 percent of those deported were
the parents of U.S.-citizen children.

In fact, the ARC report concluded, if the rate of ''parental deportations"
continues through next year, we will get to a point where the Obama
administration will have removed -- in raw numbers -- about as many parents with
U.S.-born children in two years as were removed in the previous 10.

This tells us at least two things: The claim from Republican know-nothings that
U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants have this magical power to ''anchor"
their parents in the United States is a complete canard; and the Obama
administration couldn't care less that thousands of families are being
separated, perhaps forever, because of its heartless deportation policies.

Now, here's the really bad news. Once mom or dad -- or, in some cases, both mom
and dad -- has been nabbed by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, where do you
suppose many of these kids wind up?

According to ARC, in the first half of this year, at least 5,100 U.S.-born
children have been dumped into the foster care system after their parents were
detained or deported. Imagine what those kids go through. And what crime did
they commit? Not a single one.

These foster kids are the collateral damage of Barack Obama's unrelenting effort
to convince voters that he is sufficiently tough on illegal immigration. That's
what has driven all of this -- the more than 1.2 million deportations overall
since Obama took office.

But try explaining that to Cecilia Muñoz. A former vice president of the
National Council of La Raza, Muñoz is now director of intergovernmental affairs
for the White House.

When asked on a recent episode of PBS' ''Frontline" about the fact that
thousands of families have been broken apart by the policies of this
administration, Muñoz coldly gave the company line.

"At the end of the day," she told PBS correspondent Maria Hinojosa, ''when you
have immigration law that's broken and you have a community of 10 million, 11
million people living and working in the United States illegally, some of these
things are going to happen. It is a result of having a broken system of laws."

What a disgraceful answer. The immigration system has been broken for a long
time. Yet this bureaucratic body count is piling up on Obama's watch, and at his
direction.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com .

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama deporting more parents of U.S. citizens

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 654 words


WASHINGTON -- Family reunification: A long-standing principle of U.S.
immigration policy.

Family separation: The unforgivable result of the Obama administration's
unprincipled deportation policy.

How bad can it get when an administration boosts the number of deportations to
score political points with voters who are anxious about illegal immigration, in
large part because they're worried about unsecure borders and changing
demographics?

Real bad. A new report by the Applied Research Center found that, from January
to June, the Obama administration deported more than 46,000 parents with
U.S.-born children. According to the center, which filed a request under the
Freedom of Information Act to obtain the statistics from the Department of
Homeland Security, that figure represents more than 22 percent of all people
deported in the first half of 2011.

This is a dramatic departure from how things were done under the administrations
of Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. From 1998 to 2007, the last
period for which similar statistics are available, only about 8 percent of those
deported were the parents of U.S.-citizen children.

In fact, the Applied Research Center report concluded, if the rate of "parental
deportations" continues through next year, we will get to a point where the
Obama administration will have removed -- in raw numbers -- about as many
parents with U.S.-born children in two years as were removed in the previous
10."

This tells us at least two things: The claim from Republican know-nothings that
U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants have this magical power to "anchor"
their parents in the United States is a complete canard; and the Obama
administration couldn't care less that thousands of families are being
separated, perhaps forever, because of its heartless deportation policies.

Now, here's the really bad news. Once mom or dad -- or, in some cases, both mom
and dad -- has been nabbed by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, where do you
suppose many of these kids wind up?

According to the center, in the first half of this year, at least 5,100
U.S.-born children have been dumped into the foster care system after their
parents were detained or deported. Imagine what those kids go through. And what
crime did they commit? Not a single one.

These foster kids are the collateral damage of President Barack Obama's
unrelenting effort to convince voters that he is sufficiently tough on illegal
immigration. That's what has driven all of this -- the more than 1.2 million
deportations overall since Obama took office, the disregard for extenuating
circumstances such as the fact that some of the people who are being removed
might have U.S.-born children.

Try explaining that to Cecilia Muñoz. A former vice president of the National
Council of La Raza, Muñoz is now director of intergovernmental affairs for the
White House.

You might have thought that she was really the head of ICE, given that the
former immigrant-rights activist is cynically being put forth to defend -- in
both English- and Spanish-language media -- the administration's immigration
policies. She has morphed into the administration's chief apologist.

When asked on a recent episode of PBS' "Frontline" about the fact that thousands
of families have been broken apart by the policies of this administration, Muñoz
coldly gave the company line.

"At the end of the day," she told PBS correspondent Maria Hinojosa, "when you
have immigration law that's broken, and you have a community of 10 million, 11
million people living and working in the United States illegally, some of these
things are going to happen. It is a result of having a broken system of laws."

What a disgraceful answer. The immigration system has been broken for a long
time. Yet this bureaucratic body count is piling up on Obama's watch, and at his
direction.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday

Commentary: Much of Willow Glen's immigrant culture remains

BYLINE: By Cookie Curci For the Willow Glen Resident

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; San Jose - Valley; News

LENGTH: 881 words


The community of Willow Glen is an eclectic mix of houses and people that
reflects a unique blending of styles and cultures. Much of this is due to the
fact that our area was the chosen home for many European immigrants who came to
America during the great migration in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

The different styles and backgrounds they brought from Europe grace our area
with family heritage, pride and memories. Subsequent generations followed the
traditions and heritage of their families while at the same times assimilating
into the American/California culture. For a time, between 1927 and 1936, our
small community of Willow Glen was incorporated as a city of its own.

The community was made prosperous by the area's fruit orchards, which for the
most part were owned and operated by Italian immigrants. Willow Glen had its own
business district, churches, schools and library. The residents rallied together
and successfully kept the Southern Pacific railway from cutting through their
land. Today, that same sense of quiet pride, determination and independence
still prevails.

Like most of the country at the turn of the century, San Jose was the melting
pot for numerous ethnic groups, in particular the Italian Americans whose
children followed their parents' dream, climbing out of poverty and searching
for a better way of life. The little town of Tricarico, Italy, gave more of its
young people to our community, per capita, than any other country in the world.

Willow Glen was especially blessed with a mix of people and cultures. They
opened businesses, sought education and eventually became the new middle class.
(Young enterprising men such as Amadeo Pietro Giannini, who revolutionized
banking in California and founded the Bank of America, was born in San Jose to a
middle class family that also immigrated here from Italy.)

Like most Italian American residents, I have a keen awareness and reverence for
things past, as well as a feeling of pride in my present community. The
neighborhood I grew up in has undergone many changes and upheavals. There have
been some losses of our Old World ways and landmarks, and that causes me to
cherish those that still remain. My dad, Rocci Curci, was the proprietor of the
Pronto Pup creamery.

For more than 30 years Dad operated the unique creamery that not only served
hamburgers, sodas and fries, but also spaghetti, ravioli and meatballs. If those
walls could talk, they would tell how many local families passed through the
shop's familiar doorway, how many kids grew up sitting at its counters, and the
long, leisurely afternoons spent visiting this haven for local foot traffic.

La Villa Deli is among our community's distinguished features.

This aromatic, bustling shop has long been a part of Willow Glen's main street
scenery. Longtime residents can remember the deli's original owners, Frank and
Anna Giacomelli, who wanted to go into business for themselves after World War
II. Anna's brother, Louis Pasquinelli, suggested a delicatessen. Louis and his
family had enjoyed fine Italian cuisine at the Giacomelli home.

So, it was only natural that they encouraged the Giacomellis to open a
restaurant filled with their tasty recipes. In 1947, Frank and Anna took the big
leap, picked out a vacant lot and built a shop, launching the La Villa Deli at
1319 Lincoln Ave. In 1967, the Giacomellis sold their business to Ed and Rita
Palestro, who ran the deli for 20 years. Today it is owned and operated by Patty
and Dave Bertucelli, who continue to operate in small-town fashion, preserving
its rich ethnic background and original recipes.

The deli's outstanding foods, especially their raviolis, have been bringing
customers to Lincoln Avenue for more than 50 years. Older residents say La Villa
Deli keeps Willow Glen feeling like the old Italian community it once was. And
it's one of the few stores they can remember from their youth.

There is and always has been a rich ethnic mix in our community. As children we
all played together at the corner vacant lots. We raced our bikes along the
sidewalks, speeding past the tall maple trees that lined the avenues. We
organized games, picked out our leaders and established our own rules. We
appointed referees, and at the end of our long summer play day, we laughed with
our friends and cherished what we had done while looking forward to tomorrow.

So many decades later, and I still treasure the memory of my old neighborhood
and the tiny moments in time shared with these old friends and neighbors.
Moments that left me with pleasant memories and an ongoing appreciation for the
community I grew up in. Over the years we've lost some of our landmarks and
houses, but the families of most of my ancestors who came here almost a century
ago remain in the area.

They carry on traditions and replace those that have gone. New faces and new
places will, in time, leave their own imprint on the passing generation. It's my
hope that our Willow Glen community will keep its unique balance of shops and
traditions, as well as its historical blending, and that it will continue to
thrive and endure, preserving the quaintness and ambiance of that little corner
of the world we call home.

Cookie Curci is a longtime Willow Glen resident. She can be contacted at
ccurci@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday

An immigrant's path from bicycle to deportation

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1226 words


LIVERMORE -- The path to deportation for Eduardo Lopez-Reynoso began when he
blew past a stop sign on a bicycle.

The 26-year-old Mexican immigrant was near downtown Livermore when police
officers stopped him just after 11 a.m. Oct. 28, a Friday.

Neighbors watching the tall, flannel-shirted man be handcuffed and plopped into
the back of a police cruiser on Chestnut Street wondered what he had done. A
drug test later showed he had used methamphetamine.

Five days later, federal agents dropped him just over the Mexican border.

Lopez's swift deportation illustrates the sometimes controversial reality behind
Secure Communities, the Obama administration program that puts local police
officers in the Bay Area and around the country on the front lines of federal
immigration enforcement.

In the Bay Area, sheriffs in Alameda and Contra Costa counties have embraced
their new role, while local government leaders in Santa Clara and San Francisco
counties are actively resisting.

Supporters say the rapidly expanding network helps track down and boot out of
the country the "worst of the worst" criminal immigrants.

Critics of the program argue that its net sweeps up too many others, sending
waves of fear through immigrant communities and tearing apart families.

Lopez's case appears to fall between those two extremes. Repeatedly arrested for
using drugs, he was a nuisance to Livermore police but had no record of serious
crimes.

Of the thousands deported from the Bay Area after the Secure Communities
database flagged them in a local jail, 68 percent were convicted of a crime. The
crimes ranged in seriousness from murder to traffic violations, but the federal
government, while publicizing the total numbers, has declined to break down its
arrest and deportation statistics by specific criminal charges.

Although local police making an arrest start the Secure Communities process once
they fingerprint a suspect, they don't track the results.

Lopez's was so routine, in fact, that Livermore police Chief Steve Sweeney only
knew about his deportation after a reporter told him. Local police did their
job, Sweeney said, and federal agents did theirs.

"We book them, and that's the end of it for us," he said. "He wasn't treated any
differently than anybody else would have been."

Some time after encountering Lopez, police gave him a drug test and arrested him
on suspicion of being under the influence of drugs.

Then at Santa Rita Jail in Dublin, the Secure Communities immigration records
database flagged Lopez as someone who could be deported; immigration agents sent
a note -- called a detainer -- asking jailers to keep him.

After years laboring in construction, but never having permission to live and
work in the United States, Lopez suddenly was on a fast track out of California.
Days later, he would join more than 5,600 immigrants deported from the Bay Area
as a result of Secure Communities, implemented in each of the region's nine
counties last year.

Liberal-minded local government leaders have debated their role in the federal
dragnet.

Santa Clara and San Francisco counties sought to resist the automatic transfer
of low-level offenders and noncriminals from county jails to federal custody,
arguing that deportation fears will erode local police relations with immigrant
communities.

Alameda and Contra Costa counties, in contrast, established close relationships
with ICE, and their sheriffs say federal agents should have the leeway to take
whomever they want. Both East Bay counties deport more noncriminals than the
region as a whole.

Lopez had a criminal conviction on his record, and he was what immigration
officials call a "criminal alien." In February, according to court records, he
had been caught walking across railroad tracks near North Oak Street in
Livermore. A police officer found a charred smoking pipe in his pocket. Asked
whether the pipe was for smoking methamphetamine, Lopez said, "Yes," according
to a police report. A judge later dropped the charge down to disturbing the
peace, an infraction.

The late October arrest triggered his journey toward deportation.

On Nov. 2, a long black Chevy Express van with tinted windows carried Lopez,
several other Mexican and Central American men and one woman from Santa Rita
Jail across the bay to the financial district of San Francisco, just around the
corner from the landmark Transamerica building.

Agents escorted the group through the freight loading dock of the U.S.
Appraisers Building, a gray 16-story monolith built in the 1940s to replace the
burned-down Angel Island immigration center.

Once known as a "detention hotel," according to a government website, the
Sansome Street building housed immigrants for days or weeks before federal
authorities stopped keeping people overnight there in 1960. Many detainees now
are sent each evening to jails in Richmond, San Jose or near Sacramento, at the
federal government's expense, while others go south -- to federal or private
prisons near the border or directly to Latin America.

All the East Bay immigrants that day -- from Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala and
Honduras -- lined up quietly facing the concrete wall of a loading garage. They
rode an elevator to the sixth floor, entering a sunlit booking room with a
sweeping view of Telegraph Hill. No one appeared to be paying much attention to
the scenery.

In fact, by late morning, Lopez was feeling resigned. He was ready to go home,
he said in a brief interview.

"I'd like to see my mom and dad," he said. They live in a town in Mexico's
Jalisco state, not far from the city of Guadalajara. Here in the United States,
Lopez struggled to find work and shared a small apartment with a relative and a
friend. Back home, he said, economic prospects would be even more dim, but he
wanted to rejoin his family after more than five years apart.

Immigration officials swiftly obliged. Lopez waived his right to a court hearing
and agreed to voluntarily return to Mexico. The agreement means he will not be
banned from seeking a green card in the future, though it is difficult for most
in Mexico to obtain one. About 11 percent of all Secure Communities deportations
are voluntary, according to UC Berkeley Law School's Warren Institute.

Latino immigrants are the most affected by Secure Communities. Although they
make up 77 percent of the nation's illegal immigrant population, they account
for 93 percent of the people arrested through Secure Communities, according to a
recent report by the institute.

The report found that 52 percent of those arrested through Secure Communities
receive a hearing with an immigration judge. Of those who get to make their
case, and are not citizens, 2 percent are granted relief from deportation. The
institute said its figures, culled from public records requests, were disturbing
and raised questions about the fairness of the program.

ICE responded by saying the report "fails to acknowledge how the program has
enhanced public safety."

Hours after Lopez volunteered, agents took him to a plane -- part of a flight
service nicknamed ICE Air -- that flew him to San Diego.

Agents then drove him to the San Ysidro land port between the United States and
Mexico, dropping him off at the border. A man who woke up before dawn in an East
Bay jail was in Tijuana that night.

He would have to find his own way home to Guadalajara, about 1,200 miles further
south.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Juan Angel Santo Dubom from Hayward, immigrated from El Salvador and
now gets finger printed and processed into ICE custody at the Enforcement and
Removal Operations Office in San Francisco, Calif. part of the U.S. Immigration
office, on Wednesday, Nov. 2 2011. He is charged with a DUI and was brought to
the San Francisco office from Santa Rita Jail. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Immigrants who are illegally in the country and charged with a crime from Santa
Rita jail are brought to the Enforcement and Removal Operations Office in San
Francisco, Calif. part of the U.S. Immigration office , to be processed into ICE
custody on Wednesday, Nov. 2 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Immigrants who are illegally in the country and charged with a crime from Santa
Rita jail are brought to the Enforcement and Removal Operations Office in San
Francisco, Calif. part of the U.S. Immigration office, to be processed into ICE
custody on Wednesday, Nov. 2 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Juan Angel Santos-Dubom from Hayward, immigrated from El Salvador and now waits
to be processed into ICE custody at the Enforcement and Removal Operations
Office in San Francisco, Calif. part of the U.S. Immigration office, on
Wednesday, Nov. 2 2011. Dubom is charged with a DUI and was brought to the San
Francisco office from Santa Rita Jail.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Eduardo Lopez-Reynoso from Livermore, originally from Mexico, waits to be
processed into ICE custody at the Enforcement and Removal Operations Office in
San Francisco, Calif. part of the U.S. Immigration office, on Wednesday, Nov. 2
2011. Lopez-Reynoso was detained on a misdemeanor charge and was brought to the
San Francisco office from Santa Rita Jail. He was deported that same day. (Laura
A. Oda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Gingrich has his own barrier when it come to officials
language

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 759 words


This Christmas, someone should give Newt Gingrich the one gift he really needs:
a filter.

I have praised Gingrich on issues ranging from immigration to Social Security.
But I wonder, how could someone so intelligent have such a knack for saying
things that are so inappropriate? Whatever they call the political equivalent of
social skills, Gingrich missed his serving.

Just days after scoring a touchdown by proposing that illegal immigrants be
given a "path to legality" if they're working in the United States, the former
House speaker fumbled in handling another hot-button issue: language.

Addressing a group of conservative voters in South Carolina, Gingrich declared
that there is an urgent need to establish English as the "official language of
government."

Yet, there is no urgency. English isn't going out of style. In fact, it has the
remarkable ability to override immigrants' native languages over time. Pick your
study and you will see: Regardless of where immigrants come from, their children
are predominantly English speakers and their grandchildren tend to speak only
English. What we do need urgently is for politicians to stop being so cynical
that they would use the language wars to score political points with one group
at the expense of another.

This is the Gingrich game plan. His line about "official English" got an
enthusiastic round of applause from conservatives. He was trying to assuage
concerns on the right over his humane approach to immigrant workers.

The language line might well have done the trick. At least it succeeded in
changing the subject.

There's a cadre of Americans who are forever looking over their shoulders
because they're terrified that foreign languages (read: Spanish) are drowning
out English. This was the crowd to which Gingrich was pandering by declaring
that all government forms, documents, communication, ballots and other materials
should be printed only in English. These people are not really concerned about
language; mostly, they're worried about where they fit in a cultural landscape
that is rapidly changing. And rather than learn Spanish, they'd just as soon ban
it.

It's offensive. Not just the concept itself, but that someone would dare suggest
it in this day and age. As a former assistant professor of history, Gingrich
should have at least a rudimentary understanding of how divisive language can be
in our society -- and has been since the 18th century, when Benjamin Franklin
used English as a club with which to pummel newly arrived German immigrants.

Official English laws almost always degenerate into a loyalty oath, as if one
group of Americans is demanding of another: "Pledge your allegiance to the
United States! Speak English!"

In our modern era, language has most often been used as a weapon against
Latinos. This includes both immigrants and native-born U.S. citizens who have,
besides speaking English, chosen to maintain their Spanish. Some of those
immigrants have been naturalized, and they vote. And along with native-born
Latinos, they're not likely to be enthusiastic about a candidate who threatens
to make English the country's "official language." Those who have served in the
military would probably feel as if they don't have to prove their allegiance to
anyone. Others will see it as an attempt to marginalize foreigners, or those who
sound like foreigners, and put them in their place.

This is a community that understands you have to read the fine print. The
problem isn't with declaring English the official language of the United States.
The problem comes when it's time to enforce that edict by punishing those who
don't fall in line.

Older Mexican-Americans have clear memories of going to elementary school in the
Southwest where, in the 1940s and '50s, students were paddled for speaking
Spanish.

Now we have to ask: If there was an official English law, would a government
worker who speaks Spanish on the job, in an official capacity, be reprimanded,
suspended or fired? Moreover, would this punishment be meted out even though --
as the federal courts have ruled in striking down as unconstitutional state
versions of official English laws -- those government workers have a First
Amendment right to speak whatever language they darn well please as long as it
doesn't interfere with their job?

Is this the America Newt Gingrich has in mind? If so, for all his expansive
knowledge on a variety of subjects, he doesn't know the first thing about the
country he wants to lead.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 15, 2010 Friday

San Mateo executive prosecuted for visa violations

BYLINE: By Pete Carey pcarey@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Peninsula; News; Local;
Business

LENGTH: 254 words


The U.S. State Department says the prosecution of a San Mateo businessman for
visa violations highlights a problem in Silicon Valley   the use of tourist
visas to bring in foreign workers and avoid the hassle of using H-1B work visas.

The executive, who worked at the San Mateo accounting firm Portston, was fined
$1,000 and given a year's probation this week after an investigation triggered
by a whistle-blower's tip to the State Department.

Officials said Hung Tran, the executive, instructed a Vietnamese man last April
to say he would be training at the company, entitling him to a tourist visa,
when the person actually was being brought to the U.S. to help on a software
design project, work requiring an H-1B.

The H-1B visa involves a more complicated, time-consuming application process.
Only 65,000 are granted each year. The worker never obtained the tourist visa. A
whistle-blower who worked for Portston and who had access to internal e-mails
alerted the U.S. consulate in Ho Chi Minh City, prompting an investigation.

Patrick Durkin, special agent in charge of the State Department's Bureau of
Diplomatic Security, said the case "may expose a larger problem in the Silicon
Valley," that of employers trying to get around H-1B requirements.

Tran's lawyer, Christian Picone, said a trial ended in a hung jury and rather
than incur the expense of a new trial, Tran agreed to plead to a misdemeanor.
Benjamin Portusach, president of Portston, said Tran is no longer a partner in
the firm.

Contact Pete Carey at 408-920-5419.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              420 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday

Concord businessman pleads not guilty in visa fraud case

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 154 words


OAKLAND -- A Concord businessman pleaded not guilty Tuesday to federal visa
fraud charges.

Prosecutors say Srinivasa Chennupati petitioned for 11 foreign workers to come
to the United States on temporary work visas in April 2009, falsely claiming
they had job offers with American companies. The alleged job offers were
full-time positions in software engineering and other computer-related
positions, according to the indictment.

The indictment does not mention if any of the applicants were able to obtain the
visas and come to the United States.

The Diplomatic Security Service, a branch of the U.S. Department of State,
investigated Chennupati. He was arrested on Oct. 5 and released on $25,000 bail.

Chennupati is scheduled to face a hearing in Oakland's federal court on Nov. 19.
His lawyer declined to comment Tuesday.

If convicted, the maximum penalties Chennupati could face are 10 years in prison
and a fine of $250,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              421 of 421 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

South Bay paint business owner pleads guilty to tax fraud

BYLINE: By Mike Rosenberg mrosenberg@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 254 words


The owner of a Santa Clara painting business has pleaded guilty to tax charges
after the IRS said he paid cash to undocumented workers using secret accounts
that totaled nearly $2 million.

Prosecutors say 57-year-old Insoo Kim, of Cupertino, kept separate business bank
accounts for Melody Painting from 2003 to 2005 that he concealed from his
accountant and did not disclose on his tax returns. The IRS then audited him and
his wife in 2006.

During the investigation, Kim initially didn't disclose the secret accounts, the
U.S. Attorney's Office said. But while investigators were digging through his
receipts, they found $200,000 that wasn't accounted for in the accounts he
provided.

After the IRS issued a summons for all his bank accounts in 2007, Kim admitted
to three secret accounts that totaled $1.907 million, which he used to pay
illegal immigrant workers in cash. The federal government lost $28,451 in tax
revenue as a result.

Kim pleaded guilty Monday in U.S. District Court in San Jose to one count of
filing a false tax return as part of an agreement with prosecutors who indicted
him in March 2010 on three counts of filing a false return and eight counts of
failure to collect and pay employment taxes. The maximum sentence could be three
years in prison and up to a $250,000 fine.

Melody Painting's website describes the business as a "growing company" that has
been painting homes and businesses between San Francisco and San Jose since
1980. Kim has owned it since 1986.

Contact Mike Rosenberg at 408-920-5705.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
