
                               1 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 3, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER LICENSING FOR IMMIGRANTS NOW UP TO DAVIS BILL MAY FALL VICTIM TO
POST-ATTACK CONCERNS

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1099 words


Three weeks ago, when the conversation was about farmworkers and not terrorists,
a bill to allow illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses in California
seemed to be heading for approval.

But now as it sits on Gov. Gray Davis' desk, the measure may become one of the
casualties of the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
And if that happens, it may derail a national movement to make it easier for
undocumented laborers to obtain driver's licenses.

The bill, AB 60, by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would waive a state
law requiring people who apply for driver's licenses to submit Social Security
numbers.

Cedillo and his supporters -- including the California Farm Bureau, the
insurance industry and even the Sacramento Police Department -- have argued that
millions of illegal immigrants are driving anyway and should be tested and
insured to increase highway safety.

But suddenly everything has changed, as it has with other immigration issues.

Lawmakers in Virginia, Connecticut, Illinois, North Carolina and other states
are racing to tighten security requirements for obtaining driver's licenses.
Their fear: that the hodgepodge system of issuing driver's licenses and ID cards
across the United States is riddled with holes and allowed the terrorists to
gain easier access to commercial airplanes on Sept. 11.

"Things have changed dramatically. This isn't just about Mexican farmworkers any
more," said Lt. David Myers, a national expert on ID cards who supervises the
fraudulent-ID section of the Florida Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco
in Tallahassee. "All the states are reviewing their issuance procedures. The
concern is about people coming to get a second set of identities, people
involved in criminal activities."

Last week, the FBI arrested several people in Virginia accused of helping supply
four of the hijackers with false Virginia state ID cards that they may have used
to get access to airplanes. Authorities also arrested an alleged associate of
Osama bin Laden -- the prime suspect in the attacks -- in Detroit who held five
different driver's licenses.

"These attacks have changed the discussion," said Alberto Benitez, a professor
of immigration law at George Washington University School of Law in Washington,
D.C.

Benitez said he supports giving undocumented workers driver's licenses to
improve highway safety. But he understands the shifting politics.

"I don't think there will be any backlash against your governor if he doesn't
sign the bill," Benitez said. "Any politician who does anything that could be
seen as helping terrorism is committing political suicide."

Davis vetoed a similar bill last year, saying he was worried about fraud. His
staff made it clear that if the bill's backers made changes, he might change his
mind. Now he's not saying what he'll do.

"Whether the bill will meet what the governor is looking for in terms of our
identity theft and fraud laws remains to be seen," said Roger Salazar, a
spokesman for Davis. "Has what happened on Sept. 11 given this issue a higher
profile? Probably. But his concern has been there even before the tragedy."

The issue is part of a wider reconsideration by the public and politicians about
immigration in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. Lawmakers in Congress have
called for increased border patrols, more limits on visas and other changes.

Currently, California has some of the strictest driver's license rules of any
state.

Applicants must submit a Social Security number and proof of legal residency,
such as a birth certificate or resident alien card, said Armando Botello, a
spokesman for the California Department of Motor Vehicles.

"We verify the number with the Social Security Administration to prove you are
who you say you are," Botello said.

Under AB 60, anyone applying for a California driver's license could submit a
taxpayer ID number "or other identifier that is determined appropriate" by the
DMV instead of a Social Security number.

The Internal Revenue Service issues taxpayer ID numbers to non-citizens,
including illegal immigrants, to track payroll deductions and dependents of
legal residents.

Cedillo's bill would allow people to apply for driver's licenses if theyshow
that they have applied for legal status with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. To do that, they must show a letter or receipt from the INS stating
they have filled out initial paperwork.

"This bill is a public safety bill," Cedillo said. "We are as a society safer
and better off if we know the 1 million drivers affected by this are tested,
insured and identifiable."

On Sept. 14, with little discussion about terrorism, the bill passed the
California Senate by a 23-8 vote and the Assembly by a 52-20 vote. It was
supported entirely by Democrats, including Senate President Pro Tem John Burton,
D-San Francisco, and Assembly Speaker Robert Hertz-
berg, D-Van Nuys.

Supporters say the issue is key to Latinos.

"It says a lot about the respect that elected officials have for Latino
immigrants," said Liz Guillen, legislative counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, in Sacramento. "If people want our labor
they ought to be able to give us a license to drive so we can get to work."

But Guillen conceded she is worried about post-Sept. 11 security concerns.

"We're concerned that this bill will be a victim now," she said. "But this isn't
about terrorists or terrorism."

Critics say, however, that approving the bill would be a disaster for public
safety.

"We shouldn't be making it easier for people to get official documents who
haven't been given proper background checks," said Rick Oltman, western director
for the Federation of American Immigration Reform in San Francisco.

State Sen. Maurice Johannessen, R-Redding, is a Norwegian immigrant who voted
against the bill.

"Someone could come into the country and get a driver's license to do almost
anything," he said. "The easier you can obtain ID, you are opening a lot of
possibilities. And after Sept. 11, this is getting to be pretty serious
business."

One person who does not support it is San Jose Mayor Ron Gonzales, who opposed
efforts by Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose, to have the San Jose City Council
endorse it last year.

"The mayor was concerned about fraud and abuse," said David Vossbrink, a
spokesman for Gonzales. "The same concerns are heightened today. We need to take
a close look at balancing the rights of immigrants and making sure we have a
safe and secure society."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS
RELATED STORIES: pages 1A , 4A, 7A, 8A-15A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Sergio Tafolla leads protest chants in May against the California Department of
Motor Vehicles at the DMV office in Redwood City. A bill that would help illegal
immigrants obtain driver's licenses may be now reconsidered.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 30, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Davis hardens stance on illegal-immigrants bill;
GOVERNOR WON'T COMPROMISE ON HIS DEMAND FOR BACKGROUND CHECKS ON DRIVER-LICENSE
APPLICANTS

BYLINE: Don Thompson Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Gray Davis hardened his opposition Thursday to a bill granting driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants, insisting legislators adopt his amendments even
as lawmakers considered narrowing his proposals.

The bill first landed on Davis' desk a year ago, but was withdrawn after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Now, the administration is done talking about amendments that would require
background checks before driver's licenses could be issued to as many as 1
million of the state's estimated 3 million undocumented immigrants, said
spokesman Russ Lopez.

"The governor believes the amendments are good as they are. The language is
strong, and it's necessary," Lopez said. "We have come to the best middle ground
on this."

Davis rejected immigration-reform advocates' argument that the state has no
business licensing illegal residents, accepting the bill supporters' claim that
it is better to have undocumented immigrants trained and insured because many
would drive anyway. But he promised to veto the measure unless his amendments
are added in a companion bill.

Another requirement

In addition to background checks, licenses should be limited to immigrants who
have "lived, worked and paid taxes in California for a substantial period of
time," Davis said in a letter outlining his requirements.

Latino groups and lawmakers, however, continued negotiating among themselves and
with members of the Senate Public Safety Committee on ways to narrow the
proposed background checks. The committee has delayed a vote on the amendments
since Tuesday but is running out of time as lawmakers rush toward a Saturday
bill-passage deadline.

"The question is if Davis is willing to support a bill that the Latino groups
are willing to support," said Adam Mendelsohn, a spokesman for the committee's
chairman, Sen. Bruce McPherson, R-Santa Cruz.

Senate President Pro Tem John Burton of San Francisco believes his fellow
Democrat should sign the bill without any of the amendments, said spokesman Dave
Sebeck.

Davis fielded Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca and Santa Ana Mayor Miguel
Pulido on Thursday to present his case that California should conduct checks
similar to those already conducted by the federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service before issuing licenses to illegal aliens who are employed and awaiting
documentation.

Weeding out criminals and repeat substance abusers is necessary so as to "not
frighten the rest of Californians who are here legally, and not frighten the
rest of America," Baca said.

For all nationalities

Mexican President Vicente Fox personally lobbied Davis to permit the licenses,
though they would be available to illegal immigrants of all nationalities.

Baca rejected arguments by Burton, the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund (MALDEF) and other proponents that the amendments perhaps
unconstitutionally discriminate by requiring illegal immigrants to undergo
security steps not required of other motorists.

Baca, Pulido and Lopez said standards would be needed regardless of last year's
terror attacks. But Davis, in outlining his proposals to the bill's author,
Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, specifically cited preventing criminals
from using driver's licenses to board airplanes, open bank accounts and rent
vehicles.

Read AB 60 and AB 1206 at www.assembly.ca.gov on the Web.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 26, 2002 Tuesday

INS busts 25 airport workers in Operation Tarmac;
Employees had access to restricted areas at SFO, S.J.

BYLINE: FROM WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 451 words


The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Monday it had arrested
25 immigrants said to be illegally working for businesses serving San Francisco
International Airport and Mineta San Jose International Airport.

The workers were arrested starting last Wednesday as part of Operation Tarmac,
an INS-led effort to increase airport security in the wake of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.

INS San Francisco District spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said all of those arrested
are subject to deportation. She said 11 were undocumented immigrants who did not
have permission to live in the United States.

Rummery said the other 14 were permanent residents, but were not authorized to
work and were deportable because they were previously convicted of aggravated
felonies.

The immigrants had access to security-sensitive areas, including the tarmac, and
worked in services ranging from food delivery to janitorial work, she said.

Rummery said the arrests included 17 people working at SFO, including one
apprehended Monday morning, and eight working at the San Jose airport.

Two have voluntarily agreed to return to Mexico and the others will have
hearings before an immigration judge, she said.

INS District Director Charles DeMore said, "The federal government is committed
to doing everything possible to ensure the safety of the traveling public. We
are taking a proactive approach to prevent acts threatening public safety and
national security and we are working collaboratively with other agencies in this
effort."

A San Francisco-based community law center, La Raza Centro Legal expressed
concerns Monday about protection of the rights of workers being investigated.

Attorney Heba Nimr said lawyers at the center are concerned that arrested
workers "are under enormous pressure to take voluntary departure" instead of
exercising their right to speak to a lawyer.

The center urged non-citizens to refrain from signing anything without the
advice of a lawyer and to try to contact a lawyer immediately if questioned or
detained by the INS.

Rummery said the arrests stemmed from reviews by INS officers of the employment
records of 90 companies providing services at San Francisco International
Airport and 48 in San Jose.

She said it is illegal for employers to knowingly hire unauthorized workers, but
said no criminal charges have been filed against employers thus far.

Similar INS sweeps have previously been conducted under Operation Tarmac at a
number of other airports in the nation, including those in Boston, Atlanta,
Seattle, Portland, Salt Lake City, Las Vegas and Sacramento, as well as Dulles
International Airport in Virginia, outside Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               4 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 28, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Court rules against illegal immigrants in labor case;
FIRED PLANT WORKER SOUGHT BACK PAY

SECTION: BU; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The Supreme Court ruled Wednesday in a Southern California case that illegal
immigrants do not have the same rights as Americans when they are wrongly fired
from U.S. jobs.

The court split 5-4 on whether companies can be forced to give back pay to
illegal workers when they mistreat them on the job.

"Awarding back pay to illegal aliens runs counter to policies underlying"
federal immigration laws, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote in the
court's opinion.

The Bush administration had argued that penalties are needed to keep employers
from wronging illegal workers, considering the estimated 7 million undocumented
workers in the United States.

U.S. citizens are entitled to back pay if wrongly fired. The National Labor
Relations Board said Jose Castro, even though he was an illegal worker, was owed
nearly $67,000.

Castro, a Mexican national, lied to get a job at a California plant and then was
fired after trying to start a union.

Rehnquist said the employer in the case, Hoffman Plastic Compounds in Paramount,
about 25 miles southeast of Los Angeles, can be subject to "significant other
sanctions" including a requirement that it prominently post a notice to
employees about their rights.

Justice Stephen Breyer said Hoffman was guilty of "a crude and obvious"
violation of the labor laws. The $67,000 penalty, he said, "reasonably helps to
deter unlawful activity that both labor laws and immigration laws seek to
prevent."

Joining Breyer were Justices John Paul Stevens, David Souter and Ruth Bader
Ginsburg.

The Supreme Court has already ruled that undocumented workers are protected by
federal labor laws. Justices said that did not entitle them to back pay "for
wages that could not lawfully have been earned and for a job obtained in the
first instance by a criminal fraud."

Castro used a friend's identification to get a minimum-wage job operating a
plant blender at Hoffman's plant. He and three other employees were laid off in
1989 after they supported efforts to unionize the plant. He did not speak
English, nor did half of the other plant workers, according to court records.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 22, 2002 Friday

California loses big time

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 783 words


DURING the recession of the early 1990s, California Gov. Pete Wilson
relentlessly attacked President Clinton's administration for failing to pay its
share of the state's costs for services to illegal immigrants.

Eventually, he succeeded in getting Congress and the White House to pass SCAAP,
the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, which last year provided California
$237 million to help pay for some 25,000 illegal aliens in California's prisons.
That's 42 percent of the entire SCAAP program.

Now President Bush plans to kill it. In his new budget, SCAAP gets the ax. It's
a strange move for an administration that ranks homeland security among its
chief priorities in the post-Sept. 11 era.

But it's hardly surprising. For this administration, stiffing California has
become almost reflexive. From its treatment of California during last year's
energy crisis to NASA's announcement early this month that it will move all
modification work on the space shuttle from Palmdale to Florida.

It will cost some 300 high-wage California jobs; the administration seems to be
making California pay for its overwhelming support for Al Gore in the 2000
election.

The primary aim, of course, isn't punishment. It's simple politics. NASA says
the shuttle decision was economically sensible, but that's a dubious claim. Rep.
Buck McKeon, R-Palmdale, who has long fought to keep the work in his district,
said the move is "penny-wise but pound foolish. NASA will lose the institutional
memory of an experienced work force that cannot be replaced by training."

But Florida is a swing state that Bush won [maybe] by a hair. Shoring up support
there for 2004 seems to be more important to Bush's political strategists than
wooing a state that they aren't sure they can carry.

Not that the Bushies were the first to stiff the Golden State. Ever since the
late 1980s, California has been what Tim Ransdell, director of the
Washington-based California Institute for Federal Policy Research, calls a
"donor state," meaning that we send far more to Washington in taxes -- this year
some $30 billion -- than we get back in federal programs and contracts.

In part, the imbalance is merely a consequence of the state's relative affluence
and thus its high federal tax collections. But it also reflects what Ransdell
calls Washington's ABC -- Anywhere But California -- attitude.

In the early 1980s, we got a little more from Washington than we sent. But with
the reduction in defense contracts, that ended by 1986. Ever since, we've paid
far more than has come back.

California has by far the largest congressional delegation, which seems to be
working more harmoniously on common concerns than it once did. But it hasn't
been able to break a long string of unfavorable federal funding formulas
protected by senators from small states and states with declining populations.

But what's happened in the past year goes far beyond ABC. It seems to indicate
an almost gleeful stick-it-to-California attitude.

There were, to begin with, Vice President Dick Cheney's serves-'em-right remarks
that, in effect, blamed the California energy crisis entirely on the state and
declared the feds weren't going to do anything to help.

If California's eco-nuts hadn't banked on conservation, there would have been no
power shortage. Let 'em freeze in the dark.

Of course it was partly California's fault, but as becomes clearer every day,
price manipulation by Cheney's Texas energy industry cronies -- the same guys
who helped draft the Bush energy plan -- seems to have had as much to do with it
as California.

Once Democrats took control of the Senate, California energy prices miraculously
dropped almost as fast as Enron's stock.

There's more. There was the rejection of California's request for a waiver from
the federal rule that gasoline include ethanol, even though California's
reformulated gas may well be better for the environment than gas with an
oxygenate such as ethanol. That'll cost Californians at the pump and in the loss
of federal highway funds.

There's Bush's proposed cut in the Medicaid payment formula that will cost
California $300 million, far more per Medicaid patient than in any other state.

There are the raids on the cannabis buyers clubs that provide medical marijuana
under the provisions of Proposition 215, which legalized medical pot use in
California.

There is the administration's push to resume exploratory oil drilling off the
Santa Barbara coast. It's a long list.

Cheney came to California this week to prove the administration really cares.
Good luck.

Peter Schrag writes for the Sacramento Bee. E-mail: pschrag@sacbee.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               6 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 5, 2002 Tuesday

Bush budget to cut police, highway funds;
Money for holding illegal immigrants also on the block

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush's proposed budget offers California the traditional mixed bag,
padded out with some political non-starters.

By restoring Food Stamps to many legal immigrants and continuing a huge laser at
the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the Bush budget directly benefits
the nation's most populous state. By cutting transportation funding and
reimbursement for imprisoning illegal aliens, Bush is less generous to the state
he lost in 2000.

"This is extremely grim news for California, particularly since the state's
budget is no longer in surplus and will have to cut spending, too," said Rep.
Bob Matsui, D-Calif.

But many details are certain to be changed by Congress, as with a Bush proposal
to charge ski resorts more money for using Forest Service land. That could
affect California resorts from Dodge Ridge to Sierra Summit. Other ideas, like a
perennial proposal to increase food safety inspection fees, are likely to be
ignored altogether.

The Justice Department's COPS program, established under the Clinton
administration to provide three-year hiring grants to local police agencies,
exemplifies how the Bush proposals will be subject to change. Every Central
Valley city from Sacramento to Visalia has tapped the program, which the Bush
budget proposes cutting to $126 million from $560 million.

"COPS grants have contributed to the spread of innovative police practices," the
Justice Department stated. "However, the net effect on police hiring and
national and local crime rates is uncertain."

Nevertheless, the program has proven politically popular in some circles, and
California lawmakers will be among those fighting to restore funding.

"It takes a pretty serious hit," said Adam Kovacevich, spokesman for Rep. Cal
Dooley, D-Calif.

The budget likewise would eliminate the $565 million State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program that reimburses states for housing illegal immigrants accused
or convicted of crimes. California typically receives about half of the total.

"This would hurt California substantially," said Tim Ransdell, executive
director of the California Institute for Federal Policy Research "California had
$600 million in costs last year. This is not good news."

Rep. Ellen Tauscher, D-Calif., likewise decried the loss of $700 million in
state highway funding.

"Not only is this gas tax money that we've already paid, but withholding this
money runs counter to all of the administration's rhetoric," she said. "It
jeopardizes jobs during a recession, and it ignores that more gridlock means
more time stuck in traffic and more pollution in our air."

Tauscher supports, though, the National Ignition Facility laser project at
Lawrence Livermore that despite controversy gets renewed support by the Bush
budget. In other cases significant for California, the Bush budget appears to be
more of a shot in the dark.

"The administration is basically low-balling money, knowing full well special
interests in Congress will fight like the dickens to get it restored," said
Keith Ashdown, spokesman for Taxpayers for Common Sense.

Ashdown specifically cited the so-called Cal-Fed water program, designed to help
restore the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and ensure California's future water
supplies. The administration proposes $15 million for programs "consistent with"
Cal-Fed, which is less than is being spent this year.

Congress this year will try again to reauthorize the Cal-Fed program, which so
far has failed to bridge differences pitting different Central Valley regions
against one another in the competition for water.

An even broader environmental test is likely to arise from a Bush proposal to
establish so-called "charter forests." The proposal would "avoid the central
bureaucracy" by setting up certain forests "as separate entities outside the
Forest Service structure, that report to a local trust entity for oversight." It
could hold special meaning in California, where Forest Service land covers some
20 million acres, but it's already drawing fire.

"It's about as dumb an idea as I've ever heard of," said Jay Watson, California
regional director for the Wilderness Society. "It's the first step to handing
public forests down to private interests, and I would have to say it's dead on
arrival."

The Bush budget does not include any specific funds for construction projects at
Yosemite, Sequoia and Kings Canyon national parks, although Yosemite already has
lots of money left over for flood recovery work.

[Michael Doyle and David Whitney are Washington reporters for Scripps-McClatchy
Western Service.]

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               7 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 5, 2002 Tuesday

Bush budget to cut police, highway funds;
Money for holding illegal immigrants also on the block

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush's proposed budget offers California the traditional mixed bag,
padded out with some political non-starters.

By restoring Food Stamps to many legal immigrants and continuing a huge laser at
the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, the Bush budget directly benefits
the nation's most populous state. By cutting transportation funding and
reimbursement for imprisoning illegal aliens, Bush is less generous to the state
he lost in 2000.

"This is extremely grim news for California, particularly since the state's
budget is no longer in surplus and will have to cut spending, too," said Rep.
Bob Matsui, D-Calif.

But many details are certain to be changed by Congress, as with a Bush proposal
to charge ski resorts more money for using Forest Service land. That could
affect California resorts from Dodge Ridge to Sierra Summit. Other ideas, like a
perennial proposal to increase food safety inspection fees, are likely to be
ignored altogether.

The Justice Department's COPS program, established under the Clinton
administration to provide three-year hiring grants to local police agencies,
exemplifies how the Bush proposals will be subject to change. Every Central
Valley city from Sacramento to Visalia has tapped the program, which the Bush
budget proposes cutting to $126 million from $560 million.

"COPS grants have contributed to the spread of innovative police practices," the
Justice Department stated. "However, the net effect on police hiring and
national and local crime rates is uncertain."

Nevertheless, the program has proven politically popular in some circles, and
California lawmakers will be among those fighting to restore funding.

"It takes a pretty serious hit," said Adam Kovacevich, spokesman for Rep. Cal
Dooley, D-Calif.

The budget likewise would eliminate the $565 million State Criminal Alien
Assistance Program that reimburses states for housing illegal immigrants accused
or convicted of crimes. California typically receives about half of the total.

"This would hurt California substantially," said Tim Ransdell, executive
director of the California Institute for Federal Policy Research "California had
$600 million in costs last year. This is not good news."

Rep. Ellen Tauscher, D-Calif., likewise decried the loss of $700 million in
state highway funding.

"Not only is this gas tax money that we've already paid, but withholding this
money runs counter to all of the administration's rhetoric," she said. "It
jeopardizes jobs during a recession, and it ignores that more gridlock means
more time stuck in traffic and more pollution in our air."

Tauscher supports, though, the National Ignition Facility laser project at
Lawrence Livermore that despite controversy gets renewed support by the Bush
budget. In other cases significant for California, the Bush budget appears to be
more of a shot in the dark.

"The administration is basically low-balling money, knowing full well special
interests in Congress will fight like the dickens to get it restored," said
Keith Ashdown, spokesman for Taxpayers for Common Sense.

Ashdown specifically cited the so-called Cal-Fed water program, designed to help
restore the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and ensure California's future water
supplies. The administration proposes $15 million for programs "consistent with"
Cal-Fed, which is less than is being spent this year.

Congress this year will try again to reauthorize the Cal-Fed program, which so
far has failed to bridge differences pitting different Central Valley regions
against one another in the competition for water.

An even broader environmental test is likely to arise from a Bush proposal to
establish so-called "charter forests." The proposal would "avoid the central
bureaucracy" by setting up certain forests "as separate entities outside the
Forest Service structure, that report to a local trust entity for oversight." It
could hold special meaning in California, where Forest Service land covers some
20 million acres, but it's already drawing fire.

"It's about as dumb an idea as I've ever heard of," said Jay Watson, California
regional director for the Wilderness Society. "It's the first step to handing
public forests down to private interests, and I would have to say it's dead on
arrival."

The Bush budget does not include any specific funds for construction projects at
Yosemite, Sequoia and Kings Canyon national parks, although Yosemite already has
lots of money left over for flood recovery work.

[Michael Doyle and David Whitney are Washington reporters for Scripps-McClatchy
Western Service.]

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               8 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           February 16, 2002 Saturday

Congress finds immigration fraud is pervasive;
By Suzanne Gamboa The Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Fraud in immigration benefits is pervasive and poorly investigated,
congressional investigators say.

Employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service believe some applicants
are using the benefits to commit terrorist or other violent crimes or for drug
trafficking, said the report released Friday by the General Accounting Office.

It said INS' benefit-fraud enforcement is fragmented and unfocused.

One example of fraud: obtaining a nonimmigrant visa for a temporary stay in the
United States even though the applicant intends to stay longer. The 19 men who
hijacked airplanes Sept. 11 entered the country with nonimmigrant visas.

"INS does not know the extent of the immigration benefit fraud problem," said
the GAO report. "However, reports and INS officials indicate that the problem is
pervasive and significant and will increase as smugglers and other criminal
enterprises use fraud as another means of bringing illegal aliens, including
criminal aliens, into the country."

Stopping benefit fraud is too low a priority for the INS, the congressional
investigators said. The INS' interior enforcement priorities, in order, are to
identify and remove criminal aliens; deter, dismantle and diminish smuggling of
aliens; respond to community reports and complaints about illegal aliens;
minimize immigration benefit fraud; and block and remove employers' access to
unauthorized workers.

The GAO report was requested by House Judiciary Committee Chairman James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., and Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., both critics of the INS.
They want to dissolve the INS and create separate agencies for benefits and
enforcement.

An INS spokesman could not be immediately reached for comment. In a letter to
the GAO, Associate Commissioner Michael Pearson said the INS agrees it could do
a better job of finding fraud.

The INS spent about $2.8 billion on enforcement in fiscal year 2000. Of that,
$26 million, or 1 percent, went to fraud detection and prevention, including
benefit application fraud, the GAO said. Last fiscal year, the INS received $7.5
million for investigations of business-related visa application fraud and
marriage fraud.

The INS relies on service centers in California, Nebraska, Texas and Vermont and
33 district offices to find and deal with benefit fraud. But the GAO said INS
has no comprehensive plan for coordinating investigations and has no way of
assuring priority cases are investigated.

It also said the INS does not have an agencywide system for tracking
investigations and that it has no system for sharing information that could help
identify benefit fraud.

INS, which for years has been criticized for its backlog in processing benefit
applications, has instituted plans to speed up those processes. But the GAO said
benefit fraud investigations are being sacrificed for speedy processing.

"Some adjudicators told us that because of the pressure to adjudicate cases
quickly, they did not routinely use investigations staff to look into
potentially fraudulent applications. Doing so would take more time and reduce
the number of applications they could review," the GAO report said.

Among the GAO recommendations:

--INS should coordinate its units involved in benefits fraud enforcement.

--INS should balance its dual responsibilities of processing applications in a
timely period and detecting fraudulent applications.

--INS should develop guidelines for investigative units to help them decide
which cases to pursue.

--INS should adopt a system for tracking and managing benefit fraud
investigations, so it can maintain information on people and organizations that
are or have been the target of investigations.

On the Net:

General Accounting Office: http://www.gao.gov

Immigration and Naturalization Service: http://www.ins.usdoj.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                               9 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            April 13, 2002 Saturday

Oakland;
10 workers arrested at Oakland airport

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 502 words


Immigration officials disclosed Friday they have arrested 10 people working at
Oakland International Airport who they said were in the country illegally.

The workers,

all of whom officials said had special access to areas that are off-limits to
the public -- including the tarmac and airplanes -- included a security worker,
some airline workers and airplane food service workers, said Sharon Rummery,
spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service's San Francisco
office.

The workers, who were arrested between March 20 and 22, most at their homes, had
either entered the country illegally, had overstayed visas or had been convicted
of felonies and were subject to deportation proceedings, Rummery said.

The agency did not announce any sanctions against the companies that employed
the workers. Those companies were not named.

An airport spokeswoman said she was unaware of the arrests.

Rummery said she was unaware of any terrorism-related charges against the
workers. But the INS has maintained that illegal workers could be particularly
susceptible to pressure from terrorists seeking access to sensitive areas of the
airport.

"They're not so much terrorist people, as much as people who might be approached
by terrorists," Rummery said.

Rummery did not release the names of the people who were arrested, but said they
were all men between the ages of 26 and 57. She said the men were from five
countries, but would not specify them.

Politician proposes

five-cent tax on bullets

California's emergency rooms are drowning in red ink partly due to the cost of
treating uninsured people with gunshot wounds,

so a 5-cent-per-bullet tax might be just what the doctor ordered, state Sen. Don
Perata said Friday.

Perata, D-Oakland, held a news conference near Children's Hospital Oakland's
helipad to herald his introduction of a proposed constitutional amendment
putting a 5-cent tax on every bullet sold in the state.

Dr. Caesar M. Ursic, trauma director at Alameda County Medical Center's Highland
Hospital in Oakland, said Highland treated 245 serious gunshot injuries last
year. One-in-five died, and the rest were hospitalized an average of seven days,
racking up an average bill of $31,000.

"The majority of patients have no way of paying these bills," he said, so
taxpayers end up paying the cost.

Perata, flanked by a flock of doctors and local gun control activists, said,
"There is no reason why the public should bear these costs -- these are
preventable injuries."

California hospitals are closing emergency rooms or cutting services like never
before due to ever-rising unreimbursed costs, Perata said, and this tax could
provide crucial help. California Medical Association past president Dr. Frank
Staggers of Oakland said the CMA supports the plan.

Several critics of the plan were at Friday's news conference, handing out a
California Rifle & Pistol Association news release calling for a
25-cent-per-bullet tax credit for gun owners.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              10 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 16, 2002 Thursday

Postcard effort seeks to gain immigrant rights

BYLINE: Associated Press: Tom Harrigan

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A nationwide postcard campaign aimed at winning legal rights for illegal
immigrants, was launched Wednesday in 30 American cities by a coalition of
immigrant groups, labor unions and church officials.

Called "A Million Voices for Legalization," the groups hope to deliver a million
red, white and blue postcards to President Bush before the mid-term elections in
November.

Kicking off the campaign in Los Angeles, United Farm Workers President Arturo
Rodriguez said illegal and undocumented workers are barred by law from obtaining
Social Security cards, drivers licenses and bank accounts.

"They need to be respected in the same way as other working Americans," he said.
"We want President Bush to hear the voices of millions of Americans who want
legalization."

Rep. Hilda Solis, D-Los Angeles, said a meeting last year between Bush and
Mexican President Vicente Fox had put immigrant rights in the national
spotlight, but the attention shifted after Sept. 11.

"We hope to revive that," Solis said, following a kickoff rally in Washington,
D.C. "It makes good economic sense to do so."

She said a program to reunite families is among the goals of the task force,
which is drafting proposals to end the legal jeopardy for millions of immigrants
from many nations.

"I would like to see these people who are here, playing by the rules, receive
legal status," Solis said.

The postcards are to be distributed at churches, community meetings and union
halls.

The message printed in languages including English, Spanish, Chinese,
Portuguese, Tagalog, Polish and French Creole says in part: "Everyday, immigrant
workers make vital contributions to our economy, our communities and our nation.
Nearly 50,000 members of America's armed forces are immigrant soldiers. ...
Unfortunately, our outdated immigration laws force many immigrants ... to live
in fear for simply going to work each day."

Obtaining legal documents like drivers licenses and social security cards can
help lift immigrants out of poverty, said Msgr. David O'Connell, who estimated
that 50 percent of his 8,000 L.A. parishioners are illegals.

"We were extremely hopeful a year ago that President Bush was getting behind a
legal worker program," O'Connell said. "Getting to their jobs in a large city
like Los Angeles is so important for them. But if they are stopped in their
cars, and don't have a drivers license, the cars are impounded."

A recent study by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center estimated there are 8
million illegal immigrants in the United States.

The report said Mexicans make up 58 percent of the undocumented population.

At a rally for the postcard campaign in Yakima, Wash., one undocumented worker
said she and others like her only want a chance.

"We are searching for the American dream," said Ana Guzman, a Yakima fruit
warehouse worker.

--

On the Net:

Some sponsors of legalization postcard drive:

www.seiu.org

www.ufw.org

www.pewhispanic.org

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              11 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 23, 2002 Thursday

Turning cops on illegals worries laborers

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

A fixture of many downtowns is the knot of men who line the sidewalks of a
bustling street, hoping each day for painting, moving, gardening or construction
jobs.

The day laborers -- many of whom slipped into the United States undocumented --
have established an uneasy relationship with local police, who don't ask whether
they are in the country legally.

But a new proposal being considered by the Justice Department would allow local
and state police to enforce immigration laws.

The Justice Department has not provided details about the idea, floated in a
legal opinion written by its attorneys. The department says only that it
"continues to explore all options to enforce immigration laws," said spokesman
Dan Nelson.

In San Mateo, where dozens of day laborers congregate daily near Gateway Park,
police say they're simply hoping that the creation of a proposed day-labor
center will reduce the number of men on the street.

Currently, local law enforcement doesn't have the authority to enforce
immigration laws, said San Mateo Police Capt. Mike Callagy, so officers never
ask whether day laborers in the city are documented.

Callagy said he couldn't comment Wednesday on how the

Justice Department's proposal would affect San Mateo, but said the day laborers
are not breaking any laws by standing on the street.

Probably the only instances of city ordinance violation are when day laborers
block driveways or urinate in public, but the men, Callagy said, are usually
mindful of the law.

"Quite frankly, they're often the ones who are victimized, sometimes by
unscrupulous contractors who don't pay them after they finish a job," he said.

Callagy stressed that citizens should be alert for suspected terrorist activity
but shouldn't target day laborers as groups prone to such behavior.

As security concerns and immigration policy intersect after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, some states are considering similar initiatives. Supporters
note INS agents are not usually patrolling the streets. But local officers are
-- and could limit the potential for terrorism by illegal immigrants, they say.

The proposals are, however, raising questions and spreading fear throughout
immigrant communities, where many people worry they could be deported.

Critics also believe the proposals could lead to racial profiling and discourage
immigrants from reporting crimes to the police.

Supporters say the Immigration and Naturalization Service, with 2,000 agents,
lacks the staff to track suspected terrorists, much less an estimated 8 million
illegal immigrants scattered throughout the country. Enlisting state and local
authorities would create "a seamless web of protection against future threats,"
said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

And Jim Pasco, executive director of the national Fraternal Order of Police,
noted that "by definition, if you are an illegal alien, you're not supposed to
be here."

In Florida, the state is hoping to reach a first-of-its-kind agreement with the
Justice Department to give 35 law enforcement officers the authority to arrest
illegal immigrants deemed threats to national security, said Jennifer McCord,
spokeswoman for the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

South Carolina Attorney General Charlie Condon wants to pursue a similar
agreement, under which the state's law enforcement officers would be deputized
as INS agents.

But workers like Mathieu Beaucicot, who is in the United States on a temporary
visa, believe police will wind up pursuing them.

"People working in fields picking this country's oranges and tomatoes aren't
terrorists, and yet they're the ones who would suffer the consequences for this
change in policy," said Beaucicot, who fled Haiti after a political coup and
works in the tomato fields of southwest Florida.

Police are split on the issue. Some say officers could assist an overwhelmed
INS. Others believe doing so could jeopardize relationships with immigrant
communities, and they contend it's not their role to take on immigration duties.

On a San Francisco sidewalk, Andres Barela and other laborers scan each passing
car, hoping its occupants will stop and hire them.

"Terrorists are not going to be here in the streets," said Barela, who sends his
earnings to his grandmother and uncles in Honduras. "We are just honest persons.
We want to work, make money and have families."

Staff Writer Christine Louie contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              12 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 12, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RESIDENT TUITION EXTENDED TO OTHERS

BYLINE: BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 495 words


Following the lead of Texas, Gov. Gray Davis on Thursday signed a bill allowing
community colleges and the California State University system to apply
less-expensive resident tuition to undocumented immigrants who graduate from
California high schools.

The most controversial provision -- opening state financial aid programs to
students who are in the country illegally -- was dropped as part of a political
compromise to avoid a veto by Davis.

To qualify, students must have graduated from a California high school and
attended high school in California for three or more years. And they must file
an affidavit saying they have applied for legal immigration status with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service or show proof of legal status.

'A truly historic event'

"This is a truly historic event," said the bill's author, Assemblyman Marco
Firebaugh, D-Cudahy. He said it gives immigrant students "a chance to achieve
their dreams and contribute meaningfully to society."

Opponents said the bill would be an immigration magnet and that it rewards
people who break the law. The Federation for American Immigration Reform argued
taxpayers should not have to subsidize college for those here illegally.

Undocumented long-term residents will no longer pay out-of-state tuition, which
runs more than $7,000 a year at CSU compared with less than $2,000 for
residents.

"This has been a deterrent to many bright students who have earned the right to
a higher education, but were unable to afford the additional tuition costs," the
governor's office said in a news release.

One study found a maximum of 200 students a year would benefit.

Helping students who grew up in California get to college "is a reasonable
thing," said Assemblywoman Elaine Alquist, D-Santa Clara, chairwoman of the
Assembly higher education subcommittee. "We ought to want to help students who
want to go to college go."

The law opens the way for the University of California to adopt a similar
policy, but the UC Board of Regents would have to approve it.

Other allowances

If students from other states met the criteria they also would qualify.

The law also allows CSU trustees to waive or reduce tuition for foreign students
who are exceptionally talented scholastically.

"In the long run, this will help save us money," said Arturo Ocampo, diversity
officer at Evergreen Valley College. "These are kids who will live in this
country the rest of their lives. We can either allow them to become doctors and
lawyers or dishwashers and mechanics."

Evergreen counselor Josie Gutierrez said she is disappointed that financial aid
was dropped. "We're talking about students who can't afford school," Gutierrez
said. "That's what keeps most people out."

Jaime Alvarado, program director for the Mayfair Improvement Initiative, said he
was pleased.

"Especially in light of Sept. 11, we were all worried about a rebound of
anti-immigrant sentiment," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 15, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Visa change is a slap at those who obeyed the law

SECTION: B; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 1826 words


YOUR coverage of the changes in the visa requirements for illegal immigrants
(Page 4A, March 13) demonstrates the gross inequities of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and illustrates the tatters of the "system."

As a naturalized citizen, I did more than my turn standing in line, waiting for
my number to come up. This was in spite of being sponsored by a Fortune 500
company. Now we have a situation where, if a person has $1,000, he can
"navigate" the system. How grossly unfair this is to the rest of us who were
legal immigrants.

I am too old to believe in fairness, but given this situation, plus the
inability of the INS to deal with what is already on their plate, someone just
isn't getting the message. It is a form of discrimination at best.

President Bush has done a fine job since Sept. 11, but he has clearly been
ill-advised on this matter. Gordon M. Booth San Jose

Suspend issuing new visas

THE arrival of student visa approvals for two terrorists at a Florida flight
school (Page 7A, March 13) should make one thing clear. The number of illegal
immigrants entering the United States is far too large. The large numbers make
it impossible for us to know enough to prevent planned attacks.

Until we can properly evaluate people seeking entry into the United States, we
should enact a moratorium on all visas: tourist, tech worker, family
reunification, asylum, student and others. Raymond R. White Palo Alto

Why criticize good news?

THANK you for your story "Backlash anxiety" (Page 1A, March 11). The news that
hate crimes against Arab Americans, Muslims and those who appear to be Middle
Eastern has subsided is good to hear.

What saddens me is that some of my friends feel that this story should not have
been published and that your newspaper is paying tribute to "political
correctness" in doing so. I am disheartened that they cannot see a reduction in
hate crimes as good news, regardless of when this is reported.

My friends seem to believe that all the news related to Sept. 11 should focus on
how Muslims attacked us and what we need to do about it. But I fail to see how
it can be anything but "good news" to read that the frequency of hate crimes
against any group of Americans has been reduced. Richard Steinberger Palo Alto

A hateful reminder for us all

THE malicious hate letters sent to Latino groups and lawyers (Page 1B, March 13)
remind us that as Americans, and as a nation, we must remain always vigilant in
confronting international acts of terrorism. We must also be vigilant of acts of
hate -- terror -- within our own borders. The two acts differ in degree but not
in kind.

The April 1 commemoration of Cesar Chavez represents an event that challenges
these hateful episodes. Chavez, like Martin Luther King Jr., stands as a symbol
of one of our country's most cherished principles: the struggle to protect
individual and collective civil rights. Acts of hate -- racist, anti-Semitic,
sexist, homophobic and all other forms of prejudice -- will sadly remain a
marker of American society in the 21st century unless Americans follow the
example of Chavez and others who struggled for social justice. An act of hate
against one group in the United States is one against us all. Alma M. and
Richard A. Garcia Santa Clara

Genetic testing is welcome

YOUR article on pre-implantation genetic testing (Page 1F, March 12) hit home
for our family. In January, our 19-month-old son was diagnosed with Spinal
Muscular Atrophy, a progressive, deadly neuromuscular disease that prevents
messages from his brain from reaching his muscles. Although it is the No. 1
genetic killer of children under age 2, few people have heard of it.

Wanting more than one child, we were devastated not only by Ryan's diagnosis,
but also by the news that any future pregnancies carried a one in four chance
that SMA would again be present. Until hearing about the embryonic testing that
is now available, couples like us would have to conceive and then wait to have
their baby growing until 10-12 weeks when the SMA test could be done. If the
tests show presence of the defective genes, the two equally terrible options
would be to continue the pregnancy, knowing the child faces huge medical
challenges and death at a young age, or terminate the pregnancy, a decision that
has lasting physical and emotional consequences. (More information can be found
at www.fsma.org.)

The testing that is now available is an answer for hundreds of families whose
lives have been forever scarred by the loss of a child. It is not a test that
says we only want "perfect" children, nor is it a test that devalues the life of
a disabled person. We all want our kids to be happy and healthy. If you knew
your child was going to drown in a pool tomorrow, or die in a car accident, you
would never get in the car or go swimming that day. Why ask families with
genetic deadly illnesses to take these risks? Carrie Manriquez San Jose

Habitat housing in full swing

A Mercury News editorial (Opinion, March 11) noted that the San Mateo Board of
Supervisors added $2 million to the $1 million it had previously seeded into a
housing trust fund. This is a small sum relative to the scope of the problem,
the editorial said, and it is time for the private sector in San Mateo County to
contribute.

Hold on! Peninsula Habitat for Humanity, supported by private households,
businesses, faith communities and organizations who have invested more than $14
million, has built 51 ownership houses in 10 years, with another 30 under
construction. Local city and county governments have put another $4 million in
land into this effort.

Every day, volunteers work with our staff to build hope and the opportunity to
make the American dream a reality, alongside partner families who work and live
here now in substandard housing, and cannot afford to buy a house or to seek
conventional financing. We plan to sell 200 additional houses in the next five
years.

In San Mateo County, we have created a model for others. We have learned that if
the community will move infrastructure toward the family -- a bus line, a
downtown housing location, a community or child-care center -- lower incomes are
not as much a negative factor in the quality of life. Join us as we build
Habitat houses in a revitalized transit corridor. Mark Moulton Executive
director,Peninsula Habitat for Humanity, Inc.Menlo Park

Fuel efficiency failure

ON Wednesday, the Senate passed an amendment to the fuel economy bill that
precluded any raising of mileage standards for gas-guzzling vehicles. This
action was taken despite the obvious need for conservation, despite the fact
that the technology for reducing gas consumption even in vans and SUVs is well
within the range of possibility, despite the overwhelming popular support for
more efficient cars, and despite the loss the American automobile industry will
face when Japanese manufacturers take the lead in building cars that people want
to buy.

What rankles me is that even representatives of my own favored party caved in to
pressure from the automobile manufacturers seeking more profit and from labor
unions looking for more jobs. There is no effective lobby that represents the
long-term interests of the whole nation.

Instead of flying the American flag from the antenna of a gas-guzzler that
increases our dependency on foreign oil, put a bumper sticker on a small,
energy-efficient car that says "Patriots Conserve." Jack Hasling Cupertino

THE Mercury News editorial concerning fuel efficiency standards (Opinion, March
13) misses the point about fuel efficiency and consumer choice.

There are many cars available today with very high fuel economy; consumers
simply do not buy them. For example, you can buy a Saturn SL1 that gets 29/40
mpg and costs $12,500. It has four doors and is not a tin can on wheels. These
have been available for many years. But when you look around, you find more
14-mpg SUVs than Saturns.

Please read the following sentence slowly: Most consumers do not care. They may
tell pollsters that they want better fuel economy but when they get to the car
dealer, take a look at what they actually do. Paul Dembry Los Gatos

I understand the pressure against fuel-efficiency standards, and I hope that in
the two-year delay we get more information as to how effective auto
manufacturers can be in increasing fuel efficiency.

On the other hand, I propose that, until the standards are changed, all vehicle
manufacturers be required to carry a "tombstone" on their ads that notify
potential purchasers of the gas and perhaps insurance costs of the vehicle.
Thus, all ads would be required to carry a statement such as, "This vehicle is
expected to cost $XX,XXX more than an efficient automobile in gas use and
$YY,YYY in additional insurance more than a safe automobile."

The gas cost would be computed at $2 a gallon over 10 years as compared to a
similar vehicle at the 75th percentile for fuel efficiency, and the insurance
cost would be computed over 10 years relative to the vehicle in the 75th
percentile of safety rankings. Mike Liveright Palo Alto

Mother's burden is great

REGARDING the conviction of Andrea Yates (Page 1A, March 13):

I am appalled and saddened by the lack of understanding of the stress and
pressure experienced by women mothering children. Being a mother is a huge
responsibility, and the amount of attention and energy required to provide even
the barest safety, not to mention that required for nurturing a healthy and
contributing citizen, is enormous. As any woman with more than one child can
attest, the demands are exponential based on the number of children. And Andrea
Yates was clearly required to carry most of this huge burden in her family.

We must understand what is required to raise healthy, happy, contributing human
beings and support and respect parents and teachers, emotionally and
economically. Otherwise, we can expect continued domestic, national and global
violence. Connie Portele Sunnyvale

Contented voters . . . don't vote CONTRARY to the letter writers and
commentators who blah blah blah about how if you didn't vote in the March 5
primary you don't have a right to complain about the results, or how you should
be ashamed of yourself because thousands have died to protect your right to
vote, I think poor voter turnout is excellent news.

At this moment, we are the most powerful and richest nation ever in human
history. In the grand scheme of things, the issues on the March 5 ballot (and in
most recent elections) are fairly trivial. We should be ecstatic that most
registered voters (and non-registered eligible voters) are comfortable leaving
the decision-making in the hands of people (such as me) who vote in every
election.

High voter turnout signals high anxiety. Low voter turnout signals contentment.
I prefer contentment.

Henry Ruddle Ben Lomond

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 23, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Fixing immigration and the INS

SECTION: B; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 696 words


THE portrait of a dysfunctional Immigration and Naturalization Service (Page 1A,
March 17) and the Congress which for years has allowed it to operate that way
was very disturbing. But it turned hilarious when I read a quote from Rep. Zoe
Logren, D-San Jose: "This agency is completely inept. It's dangerously inept."

Why is this funny? Lofgren is the former immigration attorney who just a few
days before voted to bestow upon hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants a
stealth amnesty. With a payment of $1,000 to the INS, these lawbreakers escape
the consequence of their trespass and remain here without the background check
that would normally be required in their home country. Lofgren's record is so
atrocious that she earned an "F" from Americans for Better Immigration.

The INS will never function properly as long as representatives like Lofgren
continue to put the interests of immigration lawyers, Silicon Valley high-tech
firms and politics before the national interest. For now, Lofgren, and most of
her fellow Bay Area legislators must share the accusation of being inept. Tim
Aaronson El Cerrito

A recent Mercury News editorial supported a House vote to allow some
"undocumented Mexican immigrants" to remain in the United States while awaiting
approval of a residency permit.

This is the message you are sending: Sneak across the border, break our laws and
we will allow you to stay and file for a residency permit. Oh, and our taxpayers
will be pleased to give you medical and educational benefits, as well.

At what point will you recognize the coming population disaster? What will you
say when there are 40 million people in California? Or 50 million? The strains
on the state's infrastructure (water, power, fire and police services, schools)
are surely not invisible to you. How many other rewards for illegal behavior
will you embrace?

Since the "final" amnesty of 1986, a series of actions on behalf of illegal
immigrants have been passed, adding millions to the U.S. population and
encouraging more illegal immigration. INS data released in 2000 suggest that in
the years after the massive 1986 amnesty, illegal immigration jumped to about
800,000 annually.

With estimates of 8 million illegal immigrants currently living in the United
States, it is clear that amnesty has failed to curb illegal immigration. And the
headline on the editorial -- "Keeping families together" -- almost brought a
tear to my eye. That's nothing more than disingenuous hogwash. Your readers
deserve better. Rick Jennings Hollister

A S an Immigration and Naturalization Service officer, I feel compelled to
defend my office and the policies that it enforces.

Neither the INS nor lawmakers want people to come to this country illegally. We
lose control over the influx, and immigrants are losing their lives and life
savings to get here. And no, granting extended stays to illegal immigrants is
not fair to those who follow the law and wait their time for a visa.

We can't make it fair, but we can do our best to ensure that people who are here
are cared for. Or is it your policy to say, "Landscape my garden, pave my
driveway, care for my children and pick the lettuce in my Caesar salad. But
remain underpaid, unrepresented and in constant fear of removal."

The recent House action allows the spouse of a U.S. citizen and workers who have
an employer willing to spend the time and money to petition to stay and apply
for legal status. They won't all be granted. Those convicted of aggravated
felony will be deported, those no longer working and people who entered into a
marriage with the sole purpose of obtaining a green card will be denied and told
to leave.

The INS has a lot of work to do to keep up with the job it is given. We all want
to be better; we want to have better policies, customer service and no backlog.

We care about the work we do. We work unpaid through our lunches, come in on
Saturdays and give out free advice to the public on our time off. We are
dedicated to the public and the law. Give us your suggestions, not criticism and
angry words. Yolanda Melendez District adjudication officerSan Jose INS office

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 30, 2002 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Regional roundup

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 424 words


BERKELEY

Couple avoid prison terms in scheme for illegal immigration of girls, forced sex

An East Bay couple won't go to prison for their role in illegal immigration and
forced sex ring.

U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken on Monday sentenced Jayaprakash
Lakireddy to a year in a halfway house, or a camp-like institution. He must
surrender on June 17.

Wilken sentenced Annapurna Lakireddy, a mother of three, to six months of home
detention with electronic monitoring and limited access to outside activities.

Both had pleaded guilty to a single count of immigration fraud. Prosecutors
recommended a 14-month prison term for Jayaprakash Lakireddy and agreed with
Annapurna's sentence.

The couple, owners of a multimillion-dollar home in the Berkeley hills, are the
brother and sister-in-law of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, convicted as the mastermind
last summer of an immigration fraud and sex scandal that began in the 1980s. At
least seven young girls were victims of unlawful sex.

SAN JOSE

Council to air homeowner landscaping proposal

San Jose's proposal to require landscaping in front yards and keep RVs out of
sight has stirred debate between property rights advocates and neighborhood
blight fighters.

The council is likely to hear from all sides today before it votes on revisions
to the city's blight ordinance.

The new rules, which the city says are the first in the state, would require
front yards to be covered with living plants or decorative materials such as
rocks, bark or gravel. The anti-blight rules would also make it illegal to park
boats, RVs, campers and trailers where they can be seen from the street. The
city wants them in back yards or storage.

Enforcement of the new rules would be guided by complaints rather than
inspectors sweeping through neighborhoods looking for violations.

The city council meets 1:30 p.m. today at City Hall, 804 N. First St.

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO

Cal Water consolidating Peninsula offices

California Water Service is combining its Peninsula district offices to be more
efficient, but the company said the direct impact will be limited to the few
customers who pay their bills in person in South San Francisco.

On Friday, April 26, Cal Water closed its office at 80 Chestnut St., South San
Francisco, and moved its operations to the existing office at 341 N. Delaware
St., San Mateo.

The investor-owned utility's Mid-Peninsula District serves about 52,000
customers in San Carlos, San Mateo and South San Francisco.

From Mercury News staff reports

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 29, 2002 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Governor wants checks to screen out criminals;
DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL DIVIDES IMMIGRANT RIGHTS GROUPS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 543 words


A revamped proposal to allow illegal immigrants to apply for California driver's
licenses is pitting Bay Area immigrant rights groups against each other in the
days before Gov. Gray Davis is set to decide whether to sign the controversial
measure.

Davis has said he will sign the bill before the legislative session ends
Saturday, but only if the measure is amended to include additional security
checks to ensure applicants are not criminals.

Proponents say the amended bill, though restrictive, would nonetheless put
licenses in the hands of immigrants who have been driving illegally for nearly a
decade. Opponents complain that the amendment would shut out many immigrants who
would no longer qualify.

The fate of the compromise, written into a separate bill, hinges on four votes
needed in the Senate Public Safety Committee, which this week heard from dozens
of dueling immigrant advocates.

Committee members met privately late Wednesday to try to reach an agreement.
Several, including Chairman Bruce McPherson, R-Santa Cruz, have raised concerns
regarding privacy and equal protection, said the senator's spokesman, Adam
Mendelsohn.

Some immigrant advocates say they can live with the proposed background checks
and a requirement to provide evidence that undocumented immigrant applicants pay
income taxes. Others, however, worry that the compromise, which came in response
to concerns following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, amounts to an invasion of
privacy by asking immigrants to submit requirements not asked of other driver's
license applicants.

"I feel totally discriminated against," said Martha Campos, a volunteer with the
grass-roots group Comite Cesar Chavez, which is rallying dozens of East San Jose
residents to oppose the amended bill. "We're not terrorists, we're not
criminals; above all, we're human beings that deserve dignity and justice."

Critics say the revisions to AB 60 requested by the governor are discriminatory
and unconstitutional because they would impose an undue burden on the Department
of Motor Vehicles, allowing state workers to make immigration determinations.

"If the governor's office was truly concerned about addressing terrorism,
everyone, not just AB 60 applicants, should be subjected to criminal background
checks," said Belinda Escobosa, an attorney with the Mexican-American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

Jose Sandoval, whose Voluntarios de la Comunidad represents about 300 people
around the Bay Area, insists the amendment should go forward. After all, he
said, the bill, in one form or another, has been debated over the past four
years.

"We think it's unfair that, once again, people who could benefit from the
measure won't have licenses," he said.

Up to a million of the state's 3 million undocumented residents could qualify
for the licenses under either proposal. To qualify, applicants must be in the
process of acquiring residency, most likely on the behalf of a close relative.

The original bill, written by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, made it to
Davis' desk in September, but the governor refused to sign it, fearing
terrorists could be among the future license holders.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 29, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Driver's license bill splits rights groups

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words


A revamped proposal to allow illegal immigrants to apply for California driver's
licenses is pitting Bay Area immigrant rights groups against each other in the
days before Gov. Gray Davis is set to decide whether to sign the controversial
measure.

Davis has said he will sign the bill before the legislative session ends
Saturday, but only if the measure is amended to include additional security
checks to ensure applicants are not criminals.

Proponents say the amended bill, though restrictive, would nonetheless put
licenses in the hands of immigrants who have been driving illegally for nearly a
decade. Opponents complain that the amendment would shut out many immigrants who
would no longer qualify.

The fate of the compromise, written into a separate bill, hinges on four votes
needed in the Senate Public Safety Committee, which this week heard from dozens
of dueling immigrant advocates.

Committee members met privately late Wednesday to try to reach an agreement.
Several, including Chairman Bruce McPherson, R-Santa Cruz, have raised concerns
regarding privacy and equal protection, said the senator's spokesman, Adam
Mendelsohn.

Some immigrant advocates say they can live with the proposed background checks
and a requirement to provide evidence that undocumented immigrant applicants pay
income taxes. Others, however, worry that the compromise, which came in response
to concerns following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, amounts to an invasion of
privacy by asking immigrants to submit requirements not asked of other driver's
license applicants.

"I feel totally discriminated against," said Martha Campos, a volunteer with the
grass-roots group Comite Cesar Chavez, which is rallying dozens of East San Jose
residents to oppose the amended bill. "We're not terrorists, we're not
criminals; above all, we're human beings that deserve dignity and justice."

Critics say the revisions to AB 60 requested by the governor are discriminatory
and unconstitutional because they would impose an undue burden on the Department
of Motor Vehicles, allowing state workers to make immigration determinations.

"If the governor's office was truly concerned about addressing terrorism,
everyone, not just AB 60 applicants, should be subjected to criminal background
checks," said Belinda Escobosa, an attorney with the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

Jose Sandoval, whose Voluntarios de la Comunidad represents about 300 people
around the Bay Area, insists the amendment should go forward. After all, he
said, the bill, in one form or another, has been debated over the past four
years.

"We think it's unfair that, once again, people who could benefit from the
measure won't have licenses," he said.

Up to a million of the state's 3 million undocumented residents could qualify
for the licenses under either proposal. To qualify, applicants must be in the
process of acquiring residency, most likely on the behalf of a close relative.

The original bill, written by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, made it to
Davis' desk in September, but the governor refused to sign it, fearing
terrorists could be among the future license holders.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 29, 2002 Thursday A1 EDITION

License bill splits rights groups;
GOVERNOR INSISTS ON SECURITY CHECKS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words


A revamped proposal to allow illegal immigrants to apply for California driver's
licenses is pitting Bay Area immigrant rights groups against each other in the
days before Gov. Gray Davis is set to decide whether to sign the controversial
measure.

Davis has said he will sign the bill before the legislative session ends
Saturday, but only if the measure is amended to include additional security
checks to ensure applicants are not criminals.

Proponents say the amended bill, though restrictive, would nonetheless put
licenses in the hands of immigrants who have been driving illegally for nearly a
decade. Opponents complain that the amendment would shut out many immigrants who
would no longer qualify.

The fate of the compromise, written into a separate bill, hinges on four votes
needed in the Senate Public Safety Committee, which this week heard from dozens
of dueling immigrant advocates.

Committee members met privately late Wednesday to try to reach an agreement.
Several, including Chairman Bruce McPherson, R-Santa Cruz, have raised concerns
regarding privacy and equal protection, said the senator's spokesman, Adam
Mendelsohn.

Some immigrant advocates say they can live with the proposed background checks
and a requirement to provide evidence that undocumented immigrant applicants pay
income taxes. Others, however, worry that the compromise, which came in response
to concerns following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, amounts to an invasion of
privacy by asking immigrants to submit requirements not asked of other driver's
license applicants.

"I feel totally discriminated against," said Martha Campos, a volunteer with the
grass-roots group Comite Cesar Chavez, which is rallying dozens of East San Jose
residents to oppose the amended bill. "We're not terrorists, we're not
criminals; above all, we're human beings that deserve dignity and justice."

Critics say the revisions to AB 60 requested by the governor are discriminatory
and unconstitutional because they would impose an undue burden on the Department
of Motor Vehicles, allowing state workers to make immigration determinations.

"If the governor's office was truly concerned about addressing terrorism,
everyone, not just AB 60 applicants, should be subjected to criminal background
checks," said Belinda Escobosa, an attorney with the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

Jose Sandoval, whose Voluntarios de la Comunidad represents about 300 people
around the Bay Area, insists the amendment should go forward. After all, he
said, the bill, in one form or another, has been debated over the past four
years.

"We think it's unfair that, once again, people who could benefit from the
measure won't have licenses," he said.

Up to a million of the state's 3 million undocumented residents could qualify
for the licenses under either proposal. To qualify, applicants must be in the
process of acquiring residency, most likely on the behalf of a close relative.

The original bill, written by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, made it to
Davis' desk in September, but the governor refused to sign it, fearing
terrorists could be among the future license holders.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      July 10, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Secret U.S. airlift deported detainees;
131 PEOPLE SENT BACK TO PAKISTAN; NONE LINKED TO TERRORIST ACTIVITY

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


In a highly unusual airlift involving hundreds of U.S. immigration officers, the
Justice Department secretly chartered a Portuguese jet to deport 131 Pakistani
detainees who had been held for months at INS detention facilities around the
country.

A majority of the detainees, a Pakistani official said, had been arrested under
a Justice Department program to locate and apprehend immigrants who have ignored
previous deportation orders and who came under scrutiny after the Sept. 11
attacks. None of the detainees appeared to have links to terrorism, U.S.
officials said.

U.S. and Pakistani officials arranged the airlift as a way to resolve
contentious diplomatic issues that have arisen between the two countries since
the Justice Department began detaining immigrants in the United States. U.S.
authorities have arrested about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian
descent, on immigration violations and in connection with the terrorism
investigation. According to the latest government figures, 74 foreign nationals
are still being held on immigration charges related to the probe.

None of the detainees taken into custody after Sept. 11 has been charged with a
terrorism-related crime. The detentions and subsequent deportations have been
conducted in secret, drawing criticism from civil liberties advocates that the
government has illegally targeted Muslims and disrupted the lives of hundreds of
people who have nothing to do with terrorism and who have built lives in the
United States.

Most of the detainees, who were airlifted out of Louisiana on June 26, boarded
the plane quietly and willingly, but about 40 of them were "extremely unhappy"
about being deported, according to Imran Ali, a Pakistani consular officer. One
briefly resisted by lying down on the tarmac, and another had to be carried onto
the plane, he said. Seconds before the plane was about to taxi, a man whose wife
had obtained a court order preventing his deportation was removed from the
plane.

The flight touched down 20 hours later in an equally dramatic scene, according
to Ali, who helped plan the operation and was aboard. About 50 detainees, now
shorn of the loose-fitting handcuffs they had worn throughout the trip, dropped
to their knees in the 120-degree heat and pressed their foreheads to the
broiling tarmac to give thanks to Allah.

"It was very moving. They were thanking God that they were free," Ali said.
"Most of them were very disappointed to have to leave the United States. Many
were crying. But after being in detention for eight or nine months, they were
also happy to be back in Pakistan."

Citing security concerns, the government did not release any information about
the flight to the detainees or to their families, although all were allowed to
make phone calls before their departures.

The flight was originally scheduled to carry 170 detainees, but 39 obtained
court rulings blocking their deportation, Ali said.

According to figures released by the Justice Department last year, 300 of those
detained in the United States were from Pakistan, more than from any other
country. At the urging of top Pakistani officials, including President Pervez
Musharraf, the U.S. government accelerated the removal of Pakistani detainees
earlier this year, deporting them with escorts a few at a time on dozens of
commercial flights. But that process came to a standstill in May for
administrative reasons, according to Ali.

According to U.S. officials, the operation, which involved the coordination of
INS offices throughout the country, was kept quiet for security reasons. In
fact, officials said, the government chose to use a charter flight not only
because of the need for a larger aircraft, but also because of concerns that a
U.S. government jet would be a potential target.

The detainees were escorted to an airport in Louisiana by INS agents from 22
cities across the United States. They numbered 130 men and one woman, officials
said. According to Ali, 26 were detainees arrested on immigration violations
after Sept 11; 35 had been held on criminal charges, including rape, larceny,
burglary and cocaine possession; and most of the remainder were absconders.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 5, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AHEAD OF FOX VISIT, BUSH SAYS HE BACKS GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On the eve of Mexican President Vicente Fox's state visit, President Bush
offered assurances Tuesday that any new guest-worker program "will benefit
America as well as benefit the Mexicans."

Bush, who will welcome Fox to the White House this morning, said he remains
committed to the concept of a guest-worker program, despite the difficulties of
coming up with a plan that can win congressional and public support. Bush and
Fox have gone out of their way to extinguish expectations of a breakthrough
during Fox's three-day trip.

"This is a complex issue," Bush told reporters at the White House. "This is
going to take a while to bring all the different interests to the table." He
said he had told Fox "there's no appetite for blanket amnesty in Congress."

More than 3 million Mexicans are believed to be in the United States illegally,
and the money they send home has become a vital part of the Mexican economy.

Although Fox has made reforms in U.S. immigration policy a priority, he has made
clear that he would not press Bush for swift action.

Fox recently suggested that revising immigration policy could take four to six
years -- a timetable that would bump up against the end of Bush's four-year term
and Fox's six-year term. Unlike the U.S. president, the Mexican president cannot
run for re-election.

Fox arrived in Washington on Tuesday night for the first state visit of Bush's
administration.

Stymied by political resistance to their efforts to overhaul immigration laws,
Bush and Fox will focus instead on celebrating the ties that bind their neighbor
nations, which share a complex history of conflict and cooperation. Fox and his
wife, Marta, will be the guests of honor tonight when Bush and first lady Laura
Bush host their first formal state dinner at the White House.

The Mexican president will address a joint session of Congress on Thursday
before joining Bush for a trip to Toledo, Ohio, where they will speak to
university students and tour a community-service center that caters to
Mexican-Americans.

Bush said tonight's dinner would be "a formal, elegant affair," with
entertainment provided by opera singer Dawn Upshaw. In contrast to former
President Clinton, who favored larger gatherings in the East Room of the White
House, Bush plans to use the more intimate setting of the old State Dining Room.

About 140 guests are expected, and lobbying for invitations was intense. The
guest list includes governors from states along the U.S.-Mexico border as well
as champion bicyclist Lance Armstrong and Eduardo Najera, a Mexican-born forward
for the Dallas Mavericks basketball team.

In a joint U.S.-Mexican Cabinet meeting today, officials from the two countries
will also seek more cooperation on cross-border law enforcement, energy and
trade.

"Trade with Mexico benefits American workers," Bush said. "It also benefits
Mexican workers. The best way to take pressure off our border is for Mexico to
grow a middle class. And the avenue for Mexico to grow a middle class is trade."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Presidents Fox and Bush will focus on the ties that bind the United
States and Mexico.
PHOTO: J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell, right, and Mexican Foreign Minister Jorge
Castaneda meet Tuesday in Washington. Mexican President Vicente Fox arrives at
the White House today.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 6, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN LEADER ASKS BUSH TO SPEED UP MIGRANT PLAN FOX'S APPEAL SURPRISES WHITE
HOUSE BEFORE STATE DINNER

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON AND MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Washington, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 771 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Mexican President Vicente Fox opened a three-day state visit Wednesday by
publicly prodding President Bush to come up with a plan this year to ease U.S.
immigration laws, surprising his host at a White House welcoming ceremony.

U.S. officials declined to commit to Fox's timetable. Although both presidents
want to make it easier for Mexican workers to enter the United States legally,
Bush has said any attempt to change immigration restrictions will take time.

Negotiators from the United States and Mexico have been trying for months to
come up with a guest-worker program that also deals with undocumented workers
who are already in the United States. Bush has ruled out blanket amnesty. Guest
workers are admitted legally to perform specific jobs, such as harvesting crops,
and are required to return home when the work is done.

Saying migrant workers make "a daily contribution to the prosperity of this
great nation," Fox said the time had come to recognize their worth. Although
U.S. officials knew that Fox hoped to complete the negotiations this year, his
decision to make the goal public increased pressure on Bush for action.

"We must, and we can, reach an agreement on migration before the end of this
very year," Fox said.

Bush offered no public response to Fox's proposed timetable. Without ruling it
out, other U.S. officials made it clear that they would not be bound by his
target. National security adviser Condoleezza Rice said: "It has to be done
right, not just quickly."

Fox uncorked the goal during an elaborate welcoming ceremony punctuated by a
21-gun salute on the White House South Lawn.

Nations' partnership

Standing beneath a brilliant blue sky, with the flags of their countries
fluttering behind them, the two leaders agreed that the United States and Mexico
are at a unique stage in an often-strained relationship.

"I have come to Washington today as the president of a democratic Mexico, of a
Mexico determined to become a prosperous, secure nation, open to the world,"
said Fox, whose election last year ended the 71-year reign of the Institutional
Revolutionary Party.

Most important ties

Bush said Fox's election and expanding trade and immigration from Mexico to the
United States have brought the neighboring nations closer than ever before. He
said he selected Fox for the first state visit of his administration in
"recognition that the United States has no more important relationship in the
world than the one we have with Mexico. . . .

"Some have described the century that just passed as the American century. Now
we look forward. We have a chance to build the century of the Americas."

Immigration is a top priority for Fox, whose domestic popularity has been
slipping as the U.S. economic slowdown ripples through Mexico's economy. He also
has had trouble getting what he wants from the Mexican Congress, where his
National Action Party is in a minority.

Any change that improved the status of Mexican immigrants would undoubtedly help
Fox's standing at home.

Not only is it an emotional issue with the Mexican public, but many also depend
on the money their relatives in the United States send home.

In pushing for action, Fox acknowledged that implementing the changes could take
until the end of his six-year term. He said his goal is a plan that benefits
workers and ends illegal immigration.

After retreating to the Oval Office for private talks, Bush and Fox presided
over a joint U.S.-Mexico Cabinet meeting that focused on trade, lawenforcement,
immigration, illegal drugs and other cross-border issues.

Annual drug review

Mexican Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la Concha said officials from both
countries endorsed an alternative to the U.S. Congress' annual review of
Mexico's efforts to fight illegal drugs.

The yearly debate is resented in Mexico, and many U.S. lawmakers question its
value.

The alternative plan would let the Organization of American States evaluate
anti-drug efforts throughout the hemisphere.

That development was the clearest indication to date of Bush's willingness to
change the certification process. Any change would require congressional
approval.

Wednesday night, Fox and his wife, Marta, attended the first state dinner of
Bush's presidency. The guest list included actor Clint Eastwood, bicycling
champion Lance Armstrong, Dallas Mavericks basketball player Eduardo Najera,
television news anchor Brit Hume of Fox News, tenor Placido Domingo and
Washington Redskins cornerback Darrell Green.

Bush also invited his brother, Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, and his Mexican-born wife,
Columba.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: SUSAN WALSH -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Bush and first lady Laura Bush welcome Mexican President Vicente Fox
and his wife, Marta Sahagun, to the White House on Wednesday for the first state
dinner hosted by President Bush. See story, Back Page
PHOTO: DOUG MILLS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Mexican President Vicente Fox, left, speaks at the White House on Wednesday at a
joint Cabinet meeting as President Bush and Secretary of State Colin Powell
listen.
PHOTO: KENNETH LAMBERT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
On behalf of Mexico, President Vicente Fox accepts an award, seen in foreground,
from the National Endowment for Democracy in Washington on Wednesday.
PHOTO: CHUCK KENNEDY -- KNIGHT RIDDER
President Bush said he selected Fox for the first state visit of his
administration as a symbolic gesture.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 10, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Number of H-1B visas issued has fallen by half

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 495 words


The number of H-1B visas issued to temporary foreign workers has dropped by half
so far this year, a sign of the torpid economy and tech implosion.

The INS issued about 60,500 new H-1B visas in the first three quarters of its
fiscal year, from Oct. 1, 2001, to June 30 -- a 54 percent drop from the 130,700
H-1B visas it issued in the same period of its previous fiscal year. There are
18,000 petitions pending, the INS said.

The plunge comes on the heels of a record year. Last year, Congress raised the
annual cap on the visas to 195,000 and created exemptions for university
researchers among others.

H-1B visas are good for up to six years and are popular in the tech industry for
importing engineers. About half of H-1B visas go to people doing
computer-related work, many of whom come from India and China. Tech companies
such as Oracle, Intel and Hewlett-Packard are among the program's biggest users.

Post-Sept. 11 scrutiny of visas and the reorganization of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service have also likely played a role in the drop, said one
immigration attorney.

"Right now immigration is sort of in a mess," said Margaret Wong, a longtime
immigration attorney in Cleveland. Wong said wait times for H-1B visas have
increased from a month to 16 weeks.

Critics and supporters of the long-controversial H-1B program agree the drop is
not surprising, but they interpret it differently.

Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America,
said the decline shows that employers are using the H-1B program appropriately.
They're importing fewer foreign workers because they're doing less hiring and
there are more U.S. workers available, he said. Miller said he doesn't think
increased scrutiny of visas after Sept. 11 has anything to do with the drop.

"Clearly H-1Bs are for use when there's a shortage. With the continued slowdown
in the IT industry and other industries that use them, then the system is
working as it was designed," Miller said. IEEE-USA, the U.S. arm of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, disagrees.

It argues that the visa numbers may be down, but that 60,500 new H-1B visas are
still too many, given how many U.S. engineers are out of work.

The IEEE-USA has called on Congress to study how the expanded H-1B visa program
and the increasing use of overseas engineering staffs are affecting the job
market for U.S. engineers. Unemployment among engineers rose to 4 percent in the
second quarter of this year, and increased even higher for computer scientists
and electronics engineers, according to data the IEEE-USA released last month.
While that's below the 5.9 percent national unemployment rate, it's a high for
engineers.

"We clearly have many unemployed domestic high-tech workers that could be
available for those same jobs," said John Steadman, an IEEE-USA vice president.

Contact Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday

Indictments smash immigrant smuggling ring in Southwest;
Bus company was central to scheme

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal authorities charged a California bus company operating in the Southwest
with illegally transporting tens of thousands of undocumented aliens smuggled
across the U.S.-Mexico border, Attorney General John Ashcroft said Monday.

Golden State Transportation, based in Los Angeles, worked with migrant smugglers
who bought large blocks of bus tickets for immigrants to travel from staging
areas along the border inside the United States to cities in California,
Arizona, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Nevada, and Washington state, Ashcroft
said.

Between 50 and 300 migrants were shuttled from city to city each day last year
in what is being called the largest human smuggling case involving a
transportation company. Officials said the scheme began in 1996.

A 39-count indictment unsealed Monday charges 32 people, including officers, bus
terminal managers, dispatchers and drivers of Golden State, and six smugglers.

The charges come amid a government crackdown on immigration after the Sept. 11
attacks.

"The terrorist attacks of September 11 remind Americans in the most painful way
of the need to defend our borders while keeping them open to peaceful,
freedom-loving people," said Ashcroft. "Today's charges prove that we can
achieve this balance in our immigration policy."

The indictment alleges that Golden State conspired with the smugglers to move
immigrants from El Paso, Los Angeles, Phoenix and Tucson to locations in
Colorado, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Texas and Washington state.

The two-year investigation, dubbed "Operation Great Basin" centered on Golden
State's operations in California, Arizona and Colorado.

Golden State is 51 percent owned by Sistemas Internacional de Transporte de
Autobuses Inc., a Dallas-based subsidiary of Greyhound Lines Inc. A company
identified as Gonzalez Inc. ran Golden State, the indictment said.

Roger Mora, operations manager for Golden State in Los Angeles, declined to
comment on the charges.

"Right now what I'm doing is making sure that our business is continuing as
usual," said Mora. "Our buses are rolling."

A "closed" sign hung on the door of the company's downtown Los Angeles terminal
Monday, and Border Patrol agents inside turned people away. A recording referred
callers to other offices.

Wade Gates, a spokesman for Sistemas Internacional, said he hadn't seen the
indictment.

"We haven't been contacted by the Justice Department," said Gates. "We have no
day-to-day involvement in Golden State."

Lynn Brown, spokeswoman at Greyhound, said Golden State operates as an
independent company.

"The announcement came as a surprise to Greyhound," said Brown, adding that the
bus company has not been contacted by federal authorities. "If we are contacted
we will fully cooperate," she said.

Most of those indicted have been arrested, including Golden State's president,
Antonio Gonzalez, officials said.

Those indicted are charged with illegally transporting migrants within the
United States; they are not charged with smuggling people across the U.S.-Mexico
border.

Migrants who crossed the border in Texas and Arizona would be held in motels and
homes before being transported to various cities, the indictment said.

Passengers would be picked up at Golden State bus terminals located in secluded
areas of El Paso, Albuquerque, Tucson, Phoenix, Los Angeles and other cities.
Often they would be hidden around the terminal and loaded onto buses just before
departure. Smugglers would use fake names or no names on passenger lists, the
indictment said.

Buses would arrive and depart after midnight to escape police detection and
routes were often changed to circumvent police checkpoints, officials said,
adding the scheme began in 1996.

The indictment alleges Golden State generated a substantial amount of its annual
revenue by transporting undocumented immigrants from the U.S.-Mexico border to
Los Angeles, Denver and Yakima, Wash.

Martin Delgado, a manager at the Golden State bus depot in downtown Yakima, said
he was unaware of any smuggling conspiracy.

"We don't discriminate against anyone. Everyone who's got a ticket can ride," he
said. Delgado said checking immigration status is the job of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, not the bus company.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar hailed the prosecution as "the largest human
smuggling case involving a commercial enterprise" in recent history. He said
Golden State generated a substantial amount of its annual revenue through the
scheme, but did not specify an amount.

The company typically would charge smugglers $80 per person between Tuscon and
Los Angeles, the indictment said.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              24 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 11, 2001 Tuesday

Indictments smash immigrant smuggling ring in Southwest;
Bus company was central to scheme

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 780 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal authorities charged a California bus company operating in the Southwest
with illegally transporting tens of thousands of undocumented aliens smuggled
across the U.S.-Mexico border, Attorney General John Ashcroft said Monday.

Golden State Transportation, based in Los Angeles, worked with migrant smugglers
who bought large blocks of bus tickets for immigrants to travel from staging
areas along the border inside the United States to cities in California,
Arizona, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Nevada, and Washington state, Ashcroft
said.

Between 50 and 300 migrants were shuttled from city to city each day last year
in what is being called the largest human smuggling case involving a
transportation company. Officials said the scheme began in 1996.

A 39-count indictment unsealed Monday charges 32 people, including officers, bus
terminal managers, dispatchers and drivers of Golden State, and six smugglers.

The charges come amid a government crackdown on immigration after the Sept. 11
attacks.

"The terrorist attacks of September 11 remind Americans in the most painful way
of the need to defend our borders while keeping them open to peaceful,
freedom-loving people," said Ashcroft. "Today's charges prove that we can
achieve this balance in our immigration policy."

The indictment alleges that Golden State conspired with the smugglers to move
immigrants from El Paso, Los Angeles, Phoenix and Tucson to locations in
Colorado, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Texas and Washington state.

The two-year investigation, dubbed "Operation Great Basin" centered on Golden
State's operations in California, Arizona and Colorado.

Golden State is 51 percent owned by Sistemas Internacional de Transporte de
Autobuses Inc., a Dallas-based subsidiary of Greyhound Lines Inc. A company
identified as Gonzalez Inc. ran Golden State, the indictment said.

Roger Mora, operations manager for Golden State in Los Angeles, declined to
comment on the charges.

"Right now what I'm doing is making sure that our business is continuing as
usual," said Mora. "Our buses are rolling."

A "closed" sign hung on the door of the company's downtown Los Angeles terminal
Monday, and Border Patrol agents inside turned people away. A recording referred
callers to other offices.

Wade Gates, a spokesman for Sistemas Internacional, said he hadn't seen the
indictment.

"We haven't been contacted by the Justice Department," said Gates. "We have no
day-to-day involvement in Golden State."

Lynn Brown, spokeswoman at Greyhound, said Golden State operates as an
independent company.

"The announcement came as a surprise to Greyhound," said Brown, adding that the
bus company has not been contacted by federal authorities. "If we are contacted
we will fully cooperate," she said.

Most of those indicted have been arrested, including Golden State's president,
Antonio Gonzalez, officials said.

Those indicted are charged with illegally transporting migrants within the
United States; they are not charged with smuggling people across the U.S.-Mexico
border.

Migrants who crossed the border in Texas and Arizona would be held in motels and
homes before being transported to various cities, the indictment said.

Passengers would be picked up at Golden State bus terminals located in secluded
areas of El Paso, Albuquerque, Tucson, Phoenix, Los Angeles and other cities.
Often they would be hidden around the terminal and loaded onto buses just before
departure. Smugglers would use fake names or no names on passenger lists, the
indictment said.

Buses would arrive and depart after midnight to escape police detection and
routes were often changed to circumvent police checkpoints, officials said,
adding the scheme began in 1996.

The indictment alleges Golden State generated a substantial amount of its annual
revenue by transporting undocumented immigrants from the U.S.-Mexico border to
Los Angeles, Denver and Yakima, Wash.

Martin Delgado, a manager at the Golden State bus depot in downtown Yakima, said
he was unaware of any smuggling conspiracy.

"We don't discriminate against anyone. Everyone who's got a ticket can ride," he
said. Delgado said checking immigration status is the job of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, not the bus company.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar hailed the prosecution as "the largest human
smuggling case involving a commercial enterprise" in recent history. He said
Golden State generated a substantial amount of its annual revenue through the
scheme, but did not specify an amount.

The company typically would charge smugglers $80 per person between Tuscon and
Los Angeles, the indictment said.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              25 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 29, 2002 Monday

Suspected immigrant smugglers charged with murder after two die

BYLINE: By April Castro, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: DALLAS


Two men accused of smuggling a tractor-trailer full of undocumented Mexican
immigrants across the border were charged with murder Sunday in the deaths of
two of the passengers.

Troy Dock and Jason Sprague were being held in jail on $1 million bond each.

More than 40 immigrants are believed to have been riding in the truck Saturday,
but only 27 have been accounted for, said Lynn Ligon, spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Fourteen passengers remained hospitalized Sunday and three were jailed for
entering the country illegally. Three women and five children were released to
Dallas-area family members, Ligon said. They will be given the choice of
returning voluntarily to Mexico or appearing at an immigration hearing.

After a 12-hour journey, the immigrants poured out of the 53-foot trailer
exhausted and dehydrated at a truck stop.

The truck left the scene before authorities arrived. It was later discovered
about 40 miles north of Dallas in Anna, where two bodies were found in the
parked rig. Another man who stumbled from the back of the truck was hospitalized
in serious condition.

The temperature hit 96 degrees in Dallas on Saturday, and one of the victims
said they had futilely torn a small hole in the truck's roof for air.

The truck, which was carrying medical supplies, apparently began its trip Friday
in Santa Fe, N.M., before spending the night at a truck stop in El Paso. Ligon
said authorities were not sure where the immigrants crossed the border.

Dallas authorities were called after the immigrants stumbled to nearby homes
searching for water.

Javier Mendoza, who lives across the street from the truck stop, said six adults
and six children collapsed in his back yard.

"It was scary to have so many people just show up at the door asking for water,"
Mendoza said in Sunday's editions of the Dallas Morning News. "I didn't know
what happened, but they needed water and they needed help."

The tractor-trailer was registered to Boyd Logistics Inc., El Paso. Messages
left at the company Sunday weren't immediately returned.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              26 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 23, 2002 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SMUGGLER SENTENCED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Prosecutors say the 16-year prison sentence given to a Mexican man who led 14
illegal immigrants to their deaths is only the beginning of an effort to end an
extensive human smuggling operation.

Jesus Lopez-Ramos was sentenced in federal court Friday, and U.S. Attorney Paul
Charlton said authorities are investigating at least 10 other people on both
sides of the border.

Officials have an arrest warrant for Evodio Manilla-Cabrera, a Mexican man
indicted on immigration smuggling charges who allegedly is Lopez-Ramos' boss,
Charlton said. Two other men had also previously been indicted in the incident
and arrested in Florida.

"It's not just the coyote who is going to be prosecuted," said Charlton, using
the term that refers to a smuggler. "We plan to go up the chain of command."

Lopez-Ramos pleaded guilty in October to 25 smuggling counts -- 14 for the men
who died and 11 for those who survived the cross-border trek in temperatures
reaching 115 degrees.

The 21-year-old Guadalajara man expressed remorse before U.S. District Judge
Susan R. Bolton handed down the sentence.

"I am very sorry for the fate of the victims and the families," Lopez-Ramos said
through an interpreter. "My intention was not to lead them to their deaths. My
intention was to lead them across so they could find better lives."

Defense attorney Gerald Williams said he planned to appeal the sentence.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 4, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Authorities rescue girl from smugglers;
2-YEAR-OLD HAD BEEN LEFT AS COLLATERAL IN BORDER CROSSING

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


U.S. and Mexican authorities teamed up to free a 2-year-old girl from Brazil who
was being held captive in Mexico as collateral by immigrant smugglers who helped
her mother illegally cross into the United States, officials said Friday.

Mexican federal agents, using information provided by the U.S. Border Patrol, on
Wednesday raided a hotel room where the toddler was being held, rescued the girl
and turned her over to her mother, who had been detained while trying to enter
the United States, authorities said.

The girl, her mother and another daughter were being held Friday in San Diego at
an Immigration and Naturalization Service facility for families pending a
deportation hearing, said agent Raleigh Leonard, a spokesman for the Border
Patrol.

Authorities declined to release the Brazilian woman's name out of fear that the
immigrant smugglers might retaliate against her. "They could still hunt this
woman down," Leonard said. "These people are ruthless."

The woman and her 9-year-old daughter were caught Tuesday by the Border Patrol
along with 12 other illegal immigrants in a remote section of the Southern
California desert, about seven miles west of Yuma, Ariz.

She was heading to Boston, where her husband lives, authorities said.

The woman was crying when the Border Patrol took her into custody and, with the
aid of an agent who speaks Portuguese and officials from the Brazilian
consulate, they learned that her daughter was being held at a hotel in Mexicali,
Mexico.

She told them the smugglers took the 2-year-old as collateral for an additional
$4,000 payment to smuggle her into the country, said agent Michael McGlasson, a
spokesman for the Yuma sector of the Border Patrol.

The Mexican federal prosecutor's office raided the Plaza Hotel, which is near
the border and frequently used as a staging area by smugglers, and arrested a
man and woman on charges of violating immigration laws, said a spokeswoman for
the agency. Both remained in custody.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 12, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Agents arrest four, say group smuggled immigrants in L.A.;
SENIOR INS OFFICIAL WHO WORKS AT AIRPORT ACCUSED IN SCHEME

BYLINE: Patrick J. McDonnell Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Federal agents have arrested four people, including a senior Immigration and
Naturalization Service inspector at Los Angeles International Airport, on
charges of smuggling illegal immigrants from the Philippines into the United
States through the airport, authorities said Tuesday.

The alleged scheme exploited loopholes in the INS's Transit Without Visa
Program, in which arriving international passengers en route to a third country
can stop briefly in the United States while connecting to other flights. The
program has come under scrutiny since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks focused
attention on the weaknesses of existing controls at U.S. airports, borders and
seaports.

Authorities cited no known link to terrorism in the Los Angeles Airport case --
merely a highly profitable scheme in which people with no legal way to enter the
United States paid up to $10,000 apiece.

Future of program

INS officials initially considered shutting down the Transit Without Visa
Program in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks but are now considering less drastic
changes, such as limiting the number of airports using it and expanding the list
of countries whose nationals are barred from no-visa transit travel.

More than 1 million foreigners lacking U.S. visas pass through the United States
each year as transit passengers en route to other countries.

"It's a program that needs to be looked at because there are loopholes in it,"
said Andrew Cowan, an assistant U.S. attorney who is handling the case against
Maximiano R. Ramos, 52, an 19-year INS veteran.

Ramos and two alleged confederates, Eshraga E. Nugud, 41, and Gloria E. Acosta,
47, both employees of a private security company at the L.A. Airport, appeared
Tuesday before a U.S. magistrate in Los Angeles. Ramos and Acosta were ordered
held without bail, while Nugud's bond was set at $10,000.

The fourth suspect, Vinzon S. Perez, 57, is expected to appear in court today. A
fifth defendant, Rita A. Cunanan, 42 -- described by authorities as Ramos'
girlfriend and a former employee of a company that handles airport arrangements
for Philippine Airlines -- remained at large, authorities said.

Alleged scheme

According to court documents, Ramos and his girlfriend helped coordinate the
scheme through contacts in the Philippines. Ramos, a retired U.S. Marine, is a
naturalized U.S. citizen from the Philippines.

Prosecutors say those to be smuggled would fly from the Philippines to the Los
Angeles Airport, making sure to arrive while Ramos was on duty. Nugud and
Acosta, employees of Aviation Safeguards, allegedly would meet the passengers at
their arriving flight gate and escort them past security and out of the
terminal.

At that point, court papers allege, Perez and an accomplice would pick up the
passengers and drive them to an apartment or "safe house." They would remain
there for several days until they were ready to leave for their final
destinations in the United States.

Ramos was put on paid administrative leave pending resolution of the criminal
matter, an INS spokesman said.

The Transit Without Visa Program was launched after World War II to help
resettle refugees, many of whom lacked identity and travel documents. INS
officials have argued that the program is obsolete and represents a security
risk, but the airline industry has fought fiercely to maintain what is regarded
as an important marketing tool.

A central weakness of the program is that it relies largely on the airlines to
police themselves and ensure that transit passengers actually leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 4, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL GETS YANKED TERRORISM CONCERNS PROMPT ASSEMBLYMAN TO
WITHDRAW MEASURE

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 393 words


After receiving an apparent signal from Gov. Gray Davis that his bill was doomed
over terrorism concerns, the author of a measure that would have made it easier
for illegal immigrants to obtain driver's licenses in California withdrew the
bill Wednesday.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, pulled the bill, AB 60, as it was
heading to Davis' desk.

The unusual move came despite the fact that the bill was approved Sept. 14 by
the state Senate and Assembly, and had the support of the Democratic Party
leaders who run both chambers. Cedillo scheduled a news conference in Los
Angeles for this morning to describe plans to resubmit it next year after
revising it with police and Davis' staff.

"The tragic events of Sept. 11 have left a profound impact on our lives,"
Cedillo said. "It is within this context that after conferring directly with the
governor, we have decided to hold the bill until January."

The bill would have waived a state law that requires everyone who applies for a
California driver's license to submit a Social Security number to verify legal
residency.

Cedillo and his supporters -- including the California Farm Bureau, the
insurance industry and the Sacramento Police Department -- have argued that
millions of illegal immigrants are driving anyway and should be tested and
insured to increase highway safety.

But after the terrorist attacks, Virginia, Illinois, North Carolina and other
states are racing to tighten rules for obtaining licenses. Last week, the FBI
arrested several people in Virginia accused of helping supply hijackers with
false Virginia state ID cards they may have used to access the planes they flew
into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"The governor wants to work with Assemblyman Cedillo and with law enforcement
officials to fashion a bill that will enhance public security while still
permitting hardworking immigrants to legally use an automobile," said Davis
spokesman Roger Salazar.

Salazar did not specify what changes Davis wants, nor whether Davis supports
granting licenses to illegal immigrants.

Critics were pleased.

"It seems like the responsible thing to do," said Rick Oltman of the Federation
for American Immigration Reform. "People who have entered our country without
inspection should not be given valid state documents, especially after Sept.
11."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 23, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED WORKERS STILL DESERVE A CHANCE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 391 words


SANTA Clara County is home to between 40,000 and 100,000 undocumented
immigrants. Many are longtime residents who've become vital to the economic and
cultural life of the valley.

Just months ago hope existed that these workers, and millions more across the
country, might gain legal residence and eventually citizenship. There also was
hope for a guest worker program to curtail the black market in cheap labor and
stem dangerous border crossings from Mexico.

Then came Sept. 11.

For some Americans, the picture of immigrants as hard-working newcomers pursuing
a better life has been replaced with an image of foreigners abusing visas to
attack this country.

Immigration reforms fell off the table. But lumping all immigrants and foreign
visitors into one group because of the terrorist attacks is a mistake.It's a
shortsighted view that does nothing to deal with most of the estimated 6 million
to 10 million people living in this country without immigration papers.

Notes Rep. Howard Berman, a Democrat from the San Fernando Valley: "An orderly
program of earned adjustment, based on work history and continuity of work, that
involves stages of getting full status, lets us know who is here."

More than ever, the country needs to know who is here. It's in our national
security interests to have people come out of the shadows and seek legal
residence.

Berman isn't a lone voice. Visiting Mexico last week, Senate Majority Leader Tom
Daschle and House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt indicated that immigration
reform might be on their legislative agendas next year. L.A. Mayor James Hahn
also has called for longtime undocumented workers to be given the chance to
become legal residents.

Other California political and business leaders should join the chorus to revive
the push to legalize undocumented workers. In January, the Bush administration
will meet with Mexican diplomats to discuss whether political conditions have
improved enough to develop a comprehensive immigration pact between the two
countries.

People who've held jobs, paid taxes and put down roots in this country, and can
pass background checks, should be able to apply to live here legally. Millions
of undocumented workers are here. Most aren't planning to leave. More will come
even with tighter border controls.

Sept. 11 hasn't changed that.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
THE OPINION OF THE MERCURY NEWS

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 13, 2001 Tuesday

Official who wants to dismantle INS tours section of U.S.-Mexico border

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 505 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


An architect of the plan to dismantle the Immigration and Naturalization Service
got a firsthand look Monday at its busiest and most labor-intensive operations.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said his
first visit in 15 years to the San Diego section of the U.S.-Mexico border did
not change his desire to split the INS in two.

"The way the INS is currently structured, it is not doing a good job with the
people who are here legally and they are not doing a good job getting the people
out who are not supposed to be here," he said at a small airport used by the
Border Patrol.

Sensenbrenner earlier this month introduced legislation that would separate
INS's duties.

A Bureau of Immigration Services and Adjudications would deal with citizenship,
visa and asylum applications while a separate agency, the Bureau of Immigration
Enforcement, would be responsible for detentions, deportation and patrolling the
borders.

The plan would have major consequences for San Diego, home to the busiest border
crossing in the world and the region where the INS deploys 2,100 agents.

Sensenbrenner affirmed his support for the Border Patrol agents who would be
affected by his plan to abolish the INS.

"The problems at the INS are at the top. They are not with the line agents," he
said.

INS opponents argue that the agency has become overly bureaucratic and is not
capable of handling the conflicting missions of removing illegal immigrants
while processing the petitions of those who have a legitimate claim to residency
and citizenship.

To underscore the problem, Sensenbrenner said 250,000 people have been ordered
to leave by immigration judges but can't be located by the INS while 5 million
people wait for the agency to process their applications for legal residency.

INS officials who accompanied the congressman on the tour of nearby Border
Patrol and immigration operations declined to comment on his proposal.

But INS commissioner James Ziglar has said the agency can be kept intact and
reformed. He has proposed creating separate directors in field offices for
immigration services and enforcement.

Sensenbrenner rejected that proposal as inadequate to resolve the many
complaints about the INS received at his congressional office and by other
lawmakers around the country.

The Border Patrol was founded in 1924 as the Mounted Guards. In its modern
incarnation it has always been part of the INS.

Besides splitting the agency, Sensenbrenner also wants to increase the number of
Border Patrol agents in along the northern border with Canada and within the
interior of the United States. His home state of Wisconsin, Sensenbrenner noted,
has only four agents to handle investigations.

The congressman also said he would like to see the State Department develop a
more restrictive policy for issuing visas from certain cities such as Hamburg,
Germany, where the alleged ringleader of the Sept. 11 attacks, Mohammed Atta,
allegedly ran a terrorist cell.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              32 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 10, 2001 Monday

Immigration violators ask why they're still in jail

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1532 words


They were rounded up at work and at home.

Some were alone, others were in groups, and soon all became part of the biggest
dragnet in U.S. history.

Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, nearly 1,200 people have been arrested or
detained, according to federal officials, who say almost half are accused of
violating immigration laws.

Some of those held had something in common with the hijackers -- attending
flight school, for instance. But others have no such link. Nearly all are from
the Middle East.

The detentions and other hard-nosed steps designed to wage war on terrorism have
come under fire by several civil liberties groups who filed suit last week,
accusing the Justice Department of withholding basic information -- including
the names and locations of many people being held.

"There is this incredible veil of secrecy that is shrouding the arrest and
detention process," declares Lucas Guttentag, head of the American Civil
Liberties Union's immigration rights project.

But Attorney General John Ashcroft said terrorists who hate America might strike
at any time and aggressive countermeasures are needed.

"One option is to call Sept. 11 a fluke and live in a dream world that requires
us to do nothing different," he told the Senate Judiciary Committee. "The other
option is to fight back."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it must move cautiously before
releasing detainees. And others said federal officials are simply enforcing the
law.

Still, hundreds of immigration violators who would have been handled far
differently before Sept. 11 have found themselves locked up for weeks, even
months, wondering why.

Here are sketches of four detainees.

"I did not hide"

Osama Elfar expected FBI agents to come looking for him.

And they did.

On Sept. 24, they came to question the 30-year-old Egyptian at Trans States
Airlines in St. Louis, where he worked as a mechanic after attending a flight
school in Florida five years earlier.

Since the hijackers were Arab and several had taken flight lessons in Florida,
"it was very obvious to me I would be investigated," he said. "I did not hide. I
was waiting for them to clear myself. I said, 'Anything you want, I can do it.'"

Authorities searched his apartment and seized his phone bills and computer. He
passed a lie detector test Oct. 5, according to J. Justin Meehan, his lawyer.

Soon afterward, Meehan said, he received verbal assurances from the local FBI
and U.S. attorney that Elfar was no longer an investigative target. Both offices
declined comment.

Elfar was in the country illegally -- he had entered in 1996 on a student visa
to attend Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. He left school the next year and
had worked as a mechanic since 1998.

Elfar suspects a co-worker reported him to authorities, claiming he had said he
admired Osama bin Laden. He denies making any such comment.

In late October, an immigration judge granted Elfar a voluntary departure,
meaning he could apply later to return to the United States. When the Nov. 23
deadline for his departure passed, he began a hunger strike to protest.

Meehan filed a motion to force the government to say why Elfar was being held.
After meeting with a federal judge and the U.S. attorney, the lawyer was soon
notified that Elfar would be freed.

After 10 weeks of detention, Elfar headed home to Egypt on Dec. 4.

Elfar's cooperation didn't help him, Meehan said; he was released because of a
growing media spotlight.

"This was a nightmare experience," Meehan said. "It was like walking through a
Kafka novel."

Despite his ordeal, Elfar has fond memories of this country. "I still admire the
American people," he said. "But staying here for Middle Eastern men will be very
hard."

Under the U.S. justice system, "I thought everyone has equal rights no matter
their sex or color or religion," he said. "I do not believe that anymore."

Life on hold

At age 19, Mohamed Omar had a plan: a summer vacation in the United States, then
back to college in Egypt in the fall.

More than 21/2 months later, he sits in a New Jersey jail, his life on hold.

The Egyptian engineering student arrived with a tourist visa in June. Soon
after, he began working for his father's friend at a gas station in Bayville,
N.J. -- a violation of his status.

His attorney, Sohail Mohammed, said Omar was detained by federal agents Sept.
18. He suspects a co-worker reported him.

A week later, an immigration judge issued a deportation order, according to his
lawyer, but he still remains locked up.

Omar's father has visited four times but has been unable to bring his son home.
On the phone, his mother cried for him to return. "I told her it's not in my
hands," he said.

INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar said the agency is not releasing detainees until
"it has been ascertained with as much certainty as humanly possible" they aren't
linked to Sept. 11 or terrorism.

Omar's profile might have initially attracted attention, his lawyer notes. "He's
19, he's Egyptian, he's a recent entry," he said.

One more possible factor: Omar's parents and an uncle work in the airline
industry and he said he told authorities he was interested in flight school,
though he never applied.

"I think that may have been the wrong answer," Mohammed said.

Omar has not had contact with federal authorities since the initial interview
and his court appearance, his lawyer said.

"The bottom line is if you are that interested in someone," he said, "you don't
leave them alone since September -- for 21/2 months -- and not talk to them."

Fight in a cell

Hasnain Javed's troubles began after he boarded a bus.

The Pakistani student had left his aunt's home in the Houston area and was
planning to attend a community college in New York, when he was detained Sept.
19 by federal agents in Mobile, Ala., and charged with overstaying his visa.

He was held in a Mississippi jail on his way to bond processing in New Orleans
and the 20-year-old said he was placed in a large dormitory cell where some
inmates called him "bin Laden" and "terrorist." One inmate, he said, began
beating him, then two others joined in.

"They pinned my head to the floor. Other guys started slapping me on my back and
my body," Javed said. "I thought maybe they really were going to kill me."

He rang the intercom bell for help but said guards were slow to respond, a claim
local authorities deny. Javed said he sustained a chipped tooth, broken lip,
swollen tongue, punctured eardrum and six-inch bruise on his back.

Stone County Sheriff Mike Ballard acknowledges Javed was called names, but said
the Pakistani student initiated the fight, striking an inmate first and making
obscene comments about the United States. Javed said that's ludicrous.

Ballard maintains the fight lasted only a few minutes with one inmate.

The FBI in Jackson, Miss., said it is investigating. The INS said it will not
tolerate abuse, but declined comment on any specific case.

Kraushaar, the INS spokeswoman, said there have been very few complaints of
Sept. 11 detainees being physically abused and all will be investigated.

Howell, one of Javed's lawyers, said a civil rights lawsuit is being considered.

Javed is awaiting a December immigration hearing and wants to remain in the
United States. "I love the education system," he said. "In other countries, you
don't have so many opportunities like you do here."

'I am no terrorist'

Uzi Bohadana is from Israel, has served in the army there and understands war.

His problems began after authorities detained him as he was removing items from
a storage area and placing them in a van to help his brother-in-law, said L.
Patricia Ice, one of his lawyers.

Bohadana had a tourist visa, she said, but the 24-year-old was charged with
violating immigration law because he did not have permission to work for pay.

He was jailed in Madison County, Miss. It was three days after the terrorist
attacks. Knowing the nation was on edge, Bohadana said he asked to be placed in
a cell alone, fearing he might have problems because of his accent and
background.

Instead, he said, he was placed in a cell with others, and six inmates beat him
up.

"They were screaming, 'Terrorist! Terrorist!" said Bohadana, who is Jewish. "I
said, 'I am no terrorist. What are you talking about?'"

Bohadana said his jaw was broken -- it was wired for six weeks -- and he needed
stitches on his eyelid and face.

Ice said she had heard reports that sheriff's officials say he made
anti-American statements. "That's absolutely not true," Bohadana said.

The sheriff declined comment, saying Bohadana was an INS prisoner.

The FBI in Jackson, Miss., said it is investigating. Ice said a civil rights
suit is being considered.

Bohadana, who was released on bond in October, is staying in Florida pending a
removal hearing this month.

At one point, Fritz Polatsek, Bohadana's immigration lawyer, said he was trying
to straighten out his client's status and an INS officer told him:

"We're all sympathetic. They should really release him. All I can figure out is
that he's from the wrong part of the world."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              33 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 13, 2001 Thursday

Crackdown on visas is

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


first of its kind in U.S.

Immigration authorities arrested 10 people in the San Diego area Wednesday in a
first-of-its-kind crackdown on Middle Eastern students suspected of violating
the terms of their visas by not being in school.

None of those arrested is suspected of involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks,
authorities said.

One of the detainees was released after authorities determined he was in the
country legally and three others offered to return to their home countries,
officials said.

The case of another detainee was turned over to the U.S. attorney's office,
which will decide whether to file criminal charges. There was no immediate word
on the other five.

Lauren Mack, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
about 50 people were being sought in the San Diego area.

The crackdown is believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, Mack said.
It is part of the agency's attempt to better track foreign students after it was
revealed that one of the Sept. 11 terrorists, Saudi native Hani Hanjour, had
entered the country as a student.

Authorities began compiling a database of the nearly 600,000 foreign students at
U.S. colleges and universities after the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. But
that effort languished amid opposition from school officials who believed it
would hurt recruitment and be seen as intrusive.

In recent weeks, INS officials in San Diego discussed the issue with
representatives of about 35 schools, including the University of California at
San Diego. They checked the records of students from certain nations under
government scrutiny.

Agents sought Wednesday to interview San Diego-area students born in Iran, Iraq,
Sudan, Pakistan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and Yemen. About 90 percent of
the students listed in INS records as being at local education institutions were
enrolled. About 50 were not.

Agents began the crackdown at 5 a.m., visiting more than a dozen homes in San
Diego County. Mack said they arrested 10 men and women, including the brother of
one student.

Muslim leaders condemned the roundup as discriminatory.

"This type of activity, people defaulting on their visas, is not particular to
the Arab community," said Mohammed Nasser, the director of the San Diego chapter
of the Muslim-American Society. "Many, many people come here from across the
world looking for opportunity."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              34 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 14, 2001 Friday

Feinstein pushes to save screeners' jobs;
Bill would help some immigrants, most at SFO would still be laid off

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 603 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein introduced a bill in the U.S. Senate Thursday that would
speed up the naturalization process for thousands of immigrant baggage screeners
likely to be laid off under the new aviation security law.

The law requires some 28,000 screeners at airports across the nation be
citizens, but up to a quarter of them are immigrants who have not been
naturalized. Locally, up to 800 screeners at San Francisco International Airport
could be laid off, or about 80 percent of the work force.

The bill would allow the federal government to retain screeners if they are
within a year of becoming citizens and have applied for citizenship. The
selected screeners would have their applications for citizenship expedited.

"I believe it is a mistake to punish the thousands of legal immigrants ... who
now work as airport screeners and who have already applied for naturalization,"
Feinstein said.

Union officials for the baggage screeners applauded the bill, but said it will
likely not help the majority of screeners.

"Initially, it is a partial solution to the problem," said Daz Lamparas, a field
representative for Service Employees International Union Local 790. "It is a
good first step, but many screeners are not within a year of becoming citizens."

Union officials and baggage screeners have been on an all-out push to save jobs
since President Bush signed the aviation security law in mid-November. The law
federalizes airport security at more than 400 airports around the country.

Screeners make an average of $6 an hour nationally and start at $10 at SFO. Many
work two or three jobs to make ends meet, so losing their screening positions
could be devastating. Layoffs would likely start late in 2002.

SFO officials and San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown both want non-citizen
screeners to keep their jobs at the airport, saying they have performed well
over the years, and that it might not be possible to find enough screeners to
replace those fired.

Many non-citizen screeners at SFO feel they are being unfairly singled out by
the law, saying pilots, flight attendants and even the National Guard troops
paroling the airport are not required to be citizens.

"Why pick on us?" said Bien Venido Conanan, a screener from South San Francisco.
"It's almost a kind of racist thing."

Conanan called the Feinstein bill a positive step, but hoped it would be
expanded to all non-citizen screeners. The bill would not help him, his wife
Corazon or his son Jordan, who are also screeners. They have only been in the
United States for about a year and a half -- far short of the five-year
requirement for citizenship.

Sen. Feinstein is looking at additional legislation that could

help save the jobs of all non-citizen baggage screeners, but the chances of a
bill passing that would do away with the citizenship requirement are "doubtful,"
a spokesman for Feinstein said.

The National Federation of Filipino American Associations is also exploring
filing a lawsuit against the federal government to overturn the citizenship
requirement, said Joe Montano, National Executive Director of NaFFAA.

Roughly 80 percent of the screeners at SFO are Filipino, although they come from
a range of countries including China, India and Laos.

Bay Area congressional representatives have said they would support a bill such
as the one Feinstein has proposed.

Meanwhile, screeners like Conanan will continue to fight for their jobs.

"Our record speaks for itself," he said.

You can reach

STAFF WRITER Justin Jouvenal at 348-4331 or by e-mail at
jjouvenal@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              35 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday

Plan would restore some aliens' food stamps

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 725 words


The Bush administration wants to reverse part of the 1996 welfare overhaul and
restore food stamps for 363,000 legal immigrants, an idea that probably will be
well-received by Hispanic voters this election year.

Immigrants who have lived in the country for at least five years would be
eligible for the benefits under the proposal that will be part of President
Bush's 2003 budget.

"Restoring food stamps to legal immigrants is an excellent first step," said
Glen Brooks, Central Regional Director for Human Services in San Mateo County,
who administers the food stamp program. "For those families that were cut off in
1996, it was an unfair deal. People that are here legally should be eligible."

Under current rules, adult immigrants must have worked in the country for at
least 10 years, no matter how long they have lived in the U.S., or be a refugee
or member of the military to qualify for benefits.

Brooks said that San Mateo County has 918 food stamp cases now, and if the
president's proposal sticks, only another 80 at most would be added to the rolls
in the County.

About 800,000 immigrants nationwide were removed from the food stamp rolls in
1996, according to the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Two years
later, benefits were restored to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and
older people who were in the country before enactment of the welfare law.

California moved in to pick up the cost of food stamps for the state's legal
immigrants when the federal government pulled out. Brooks said the state would
likely close its program if the federal government took up the cost.

"Welfare-to-Work has succeeded," Brooks said about the 1996 reforms that booted
people off food stamps. "But food stamps is a program for people who have work,
but need them, in a high-cost county like San Mateo." The Agriculture Department
estimates one in 10 American households are going hungry or don't have
consistent access to adequate food.

"Food stamps is nutrition security," Brooks said. "It helps people get the food
they need to be healthy."

The administration's proposal would cost $2.1 billion over 10 years. Currently,
the food stamp program costs about $17 billion annually.

Total food stamp rolls fell nationwide from 25.5 million in 1996, when Congress
overhauled the welfare system, to below 17 million early last year. By October,
with the nation's economy slumping, the number swelled to 18.4 million.

The White House also is expected to propose simplifying the application process,
a priority of Eric Bost, the Agriculture Department's undersecretary for food
and nutrition and Texas' welfare chief when Bush was governor.

Brooks agreed that streamlining the complicated process is the important next
step. For example, he said, clients must fill out lengthy forms every month
detailing how meals are prepared in the household and provide the financial
status of each resident.

"It would also save a lot of money in the administration of the program," Brooks
said. "It would be a smarter way to do business."

A recent Government Accounting Office study that looked at program
administration in five states, including California, recommended streamlining
the way in which financial eligibility is determined.

A senior administration official, who described the president's proposal
Wednesday on condition of anonymity, said the White House wants the rule change
included in an overhaul of farm and nutrition policy now pending in Congress.
The White House proposal sets up a potential battle with Senate Democratic
leaders, who have proposed only cutting the work requirement from 10 years to
four, which would benefit approximately 65,000 immigrants. Democrats have
resisted more generous changes in the rules that would cut the amount of money
available for farm subsidies.

Conservatives have argued that a work or residency requirement is necessary to
keep people from moving to the U.S. to take advantage of the welfare system.

The administration should be trying to tighten eligibility requirements for food
stamps, not loosen them, said Robert Rector, senior research fellow with the
Heritage Foundation think tank.

"The current food stamp program ... rewards illegitimacy and nonwork," Rector
said.

STAFF WRITER Jean Whitney contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              36 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 10, 2002 Thursday

Plan would restore some aliens' food stamps

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 725 words


The Bush administration wants to reverse part of the 1996 welfare overhaul and
restore food stamps for 363,000 legal immigrants, an idea that probably will be
well-received by Hispanic voters this election year.

Immigrants who have lived in the country for at least five years would be
eligible for the benefits under the proposal that will be part of President
Bush's 2003 budget.

"Restoring food stamps to legal immigrants is an excellent first step," said
Glen Brooks, Central Regional Director for Human Services in San Mateo County,
who administers the food stamp program. "For those families that were cut off in
1996, it was an unfair deal. People that are here legally should be eligible."

Under current rules, adult immigrants must have worked in the country for at
least 10 years, no matter how long they have lived in the U.S., or be a refugee
or member of the military to qualify for benefits.

Brooks said that San Mateo County has 918 food stamp cases now, and if the
president's proposal sticks, only another 80 at most would be added to the rolls
in the County.

About 800,000 immigrants nationwide were removed from the food stamp rolls in
1996, according to the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Two years
later, benefits were restored to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and
older people who were in the country before enactment of the welfare law.

California moved in to pick up the cost of food stamps for the state's legal
immigrants when the federal government pulled out. Brooks said the state would
likely close its program if the federal government took up the cost.

"Welfare-to-Work has succeeded," Brooks said about the 1996 reforms that booted
people off food stamps. "But food stamps is a program for people who have work,
but need them, in a high-cost county like San Mateo." The Agriculture Department
estimates one in 10 American households are going hungry or don't have
consistent access to adequate food.

"Food stamps is nutrition security," Brooks said. "It helps people get the food
they need to be healthy."

The administration's proposal would cost $2.1 billion over 10 years. Currently,
the food stamp program costs about $17 billion annually.

Total food stamp rolls fell nationwide from 25.5 million in 1996, when Congress
overhauled the welfare system, to below 17 million early last year. By October,
with the nation's economy slumping, the number swelled to 18.4 million.

The White House also is expected to propose simplifying the application process,
a priority of Eric Bost, the Agriculture Department's undersecretary for food
and nutrition and Texas' welfare chief when Bush was governor.

Brooks agreed that streamlining the complicated process is the important next
step. For example, he said, clients must fill out lengthy forms every month
detailing how meals are prepared in the household and provide the financial
status of each resident.

"It would also save a lot of money in the administration of the program," Brooks
said. "It would be a smarter way to do business."

A recent Government Accounting Office study that looked at program
administration in five states, including California, recommended streamlining
the way in which financial eligibility is determined.

A senior administration official, who described the president's proposal
Wednesday on condition of anonymity, said the White House wants the rule change
included in an overhaul of farm and nutrition policy now pending in Congress.
The White House proposal sets up a potential battle with Senate Democratic
leaders, who have proposed only cutting the work requirement from 10 years to
four, which would benefit approximately 65,000 immigrants. Democrats have
resisted more generous changes in the rules that would cut the amount of money
available for farm subsidies.

Conservatives have argued that a work or residency requirement is necessary to
keep people from moving to the U.S. to take advantage of the welfare system.

The administration should be trying to tighten eligibility requirements for food
stamps, not loosen them, said Robert Rector, senior research fellow with the
Heritage Foundation think tank.

"The current food stamp program ... rewards illegitimacy and nonwork," Rector
said.

STAFF WRITER Jean Whitney contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              37 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 24, 2002 Thursday

San Bruno;
Fake immigration agent steals man's credit card

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 366 words


San Bruno police said Wednesday that they are looking for a man who impersonated
an immigration official in order to gain access to a man's wallet,

from which he stole a credit card.

Police said an elderly San Bruno resident of East Indian descent was confronted
by a man in the parking lot of the Salvation Army store at 300 El Camino Real at
about 12:15 p.m. Wednesday. The suspect, who was dressed in blue jeans and a
blue denim jacket, stopped the victim and told him he was from "immigration."

After flashing a badge of some sort and requesting to see the victim's green
card, the suspect patted down the victim and removed a credit card from his
wallet, police said. The suspect returned the wallet to the victim and walked
away.

Wednesday's suspect matches the description of a man who impersonated another
law enforcement agent in Millbrae on Saturday. In that incident, the suspect
used broken Spanish to identify himself as a police officer who needed to see
identification from a Latino victim. When the victim handed over his wallet, the
suspect removed an unspecified amount of cash. The suspect was last seen driving
away in a full-size 1980s dark brown car.

The suspect is described as being white, in his early 40s, with a heavy build
and about 5 feet 8 inches tall. During the first robbery the man was
clean-shaven and had black hair combed straight back.

San Mateo

Neptune Society van

taken from hospital

A man drove off with a company cremation van Tuesday afternoon while the driver
was picking up a body,

police said.

At about 4:40 p.m., an employee of the Neptune Society parked a company van
outside the main entrance of San Mateo County General Hospital at 222 W. 39th
Ave. and left the van unlocked with the keys in the ignition while he went
inside for a service call, police said.

About 10 minutes later he came back and found the van missing. An unidentified
witness told employees that a black man had driven off in the van, police said.

The vehicle is a white 1996 Chevrolet Astro cargo van with California license
plates 5J43949.

San Mateo police say the van's only contents were the Neptune Society driver's
personal belongings.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              38 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 28, 2002 Monday

Effort to track foreign students a slow process;
Despite promises to finally tighten controls on student visas after Sept. 11th,
the government is at least a year away from making the system safer from
terrorists, like those who used the visas while plotting the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing and the September attacks, immigration officials say.

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 1617 words


A computer network to track foreign students in the country, originally ordered
by Congress six years ago, is still being tested and will not be up and running
until next year. Even then, immigration service officials said, there will not
be enough enforcement agents to check on all of the visa violators flagged by
the system.

Moreover, colleges that see foreign students as a lucrative market are raising
concerns about how the system will be paid for and operated, and their
objections could delay it even further. At present, officials concede, they do
not know for sure where the 547,000 people holding student visas are attending
school, or whether they actually are.

The halting efforts to plug holes in the student visa system reflect the overall
difficulty of improving domestic defense, most notably airline security. Even in
a world said to be forever changed by terrorism, demands for better security
are, just four months later, hitting an old reality of competing interests,
entrenched lobbies and reluctance to make financial or practical sacrifices.

"As we get further and further from Sept. 11, there has been kind of a
resumption of the traditional battle lines," said Rep. Anthony Weiner, D-N.Y.

Certainly, the Sept. 11 attacks inspired widespread agreement about the need to
change a system that allowed the names of foreign students to pile up unread in
immigration offices and permitted Hani Hanjour, for example, to enter this
country on a student visa and roam free until he flew American Airlines Flight
77 into the Pentagon.

But last week, higher education institutions again raised a raft of objections.

, sending a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that called the
planned system unworkable and demanding technical advisory groups and training.

Keeping track of newcomers on student visas might seem straightforward. But like
other issues of domestic defense, it gets tangled in complexities. Universities
say that policing students violates the culture of academic freedom. In
addition, any new push to monitor the 74,000 universities and technical schools
where foreign students are enrolled will strain government agencies that even
before Sept. 11 were considered the weakest link in fighting terrorism. Even in
big cities, the immigration service assigns only one person to work with
colleges on visas.

The issue is particularly pressing for community and technical colleges, which
rely heavily on foreign students because they pay higher tuition. The colleges
aggressively market themselves with Web sites in Arabic and recruiting trips
around the world. The Illinois Institute of Technology, for example, enrolls a
higher percentage of foreign students than do Harvard, New York University or
Columbia. Overall, foreign students spent $12 billion in the United States last
year.

President Bush first promised better monitoring of student visas in October. On
Friday, he said he was increasing the immigration service budget by 29 percent,
which immigration officials said would largely be used for computer systems to
track the more than 30 million visas issued in this country each year.

Immigration officials said it was unclear if they would be able to hire more
enforcement agents. They said that many of the extra resources the agency had
received in recent years had gone toward tightening the Mexican border. There
are currently only 2,000 immigration enforcement agents nationwide, who have an
array of duties including tracking hundreds of thousands of visa violators.

Michael Becraft, the acting deputy commissioner of the INS, recently told
Congress that it has been hard for the enforcement agents to monitor foreign
students because the agents are "focused in a lot of different directions." Once
the tracking system is completed, the agency will need to find ways to scan the
database to pinpoint the visa violators who seem most likely to pose a threat.

[STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS]

The Iranian hostage crisis in 1979 first raised the possibility of militants
entering the country disguised as students. In 1983, the immigration service
began requiring colleges to report when students showed up and when they left,
to make sure they did not violate the time limits imposed on their visas. But by
1988, the paper forms that reported this information had piled up so high in
immigration offices that officials told the colleges to stop sending them.

Foreign students now apply for visas in their home countries and then report to
the immigration service at the border. But the agency takes six months to a year
to report to the colleges on whom they should be expecting. The colleges do not
confirm that these students actually show up unless the immigration service
asks, which generally does not happen.

The visa forms themselves present several opportunities for abuse. Before
students enter the country, they can receive forms known as I-20s from several
institutions, depending on how many they apply to, which allow them to seek
visas. Community colleges and language schools often have open enrollment, so
students receive several I-20 forms, and immigration officials acknowledge that
those forms can be forged to obtain multiple visas.

In the days after Sept. 11, immigration officials had to admit to Congress that
they had no idea how many foreign students had overstayed or violated their
visas, as Hanjour had.

Certainly other people have taken advantage of the holes in the system. The
terrorist who drove the bomb-laden truck to the World Trade Center in 1993 had
entered the country on a student visa but never enrolled in the language school
he claimed to be attending. In San Diego, several community college officials
were convicted of taking bribes to secure visas for Middle Eastern students from
1989 to 1995.

The first World Trade Center attack prompted Louis J. Freeh, then the director
of the FBI, to call for tighter monitoring of who entered the country. In 1996,
Congress passed a law that required computerized tracking of students when they
received visas, when they entered the country and when they enrolled in college,
allowing the immigration service to quickly tell when they violated the visa's
conditions. The system was to track what they were studying, and any change in
address.

Higher education lobbying groups resisted, however, saying that there was no
evidence that terrorists were abusing student visas and that any limits would
deter foreign students and potentially put their institutions out of business.
Twice they persuaded Congress to delay the start of the system, most recently
until Jan. 2003.

Small language schools, some of which combine three-week language courses with
trips to Disneyland, have resisted almost any oversight; the immigration service
backed off a proposal to have them accredited when the schools said the process
would be too expensive.

"This was a system run for the profit and convenience of the universities, and
it was run more with the intention of making money than anything else," said
Rep. George Miller, D-Calif.

As late as August, the Association of International Educators, the most
outspoken opponent of the computerized system, sent a letter to its members
encouraging them to support a bill to repeal the law requiring it.

The association endorsed the system in the days after Sept. 11, in part to fend
off an effort in Congress to impose an outright moratorium on student visas.

But the regulations dictating how and when the colleges will be required to
enter the information in the system remain to be worked out, and the
institutions still object to many aspects of the plan. In particular, they warn
that a proposal to collect a $95 fee from visa applicants would cause too much
delay and steer students to competing countries like Australia and Canada.

"We're losing a market share of students who were going to come here," said
George Beers, dean of international and distance education at Foothill College
in Los Altos Hills, Calif., where $11 million of a $130 million budget comes
from foreign students. "I think there's some overreaction in Congress, there's a
few senators that feel they need to show they're doing something, and this is an
easy, very visible area."

The colleges have also objected to a plan proposed by Miller that would prevent
foreign students from receiving diplomas until they confirm that they have
either returned home or extended their visas.

The immigration service says it plans to have its new system ready for colleges
to use voluntarily this summer, and will offer them training in the fall. Since
Sept. 11, Congress has insisted that the system must be in operation by next
January.

In the letter released last week, the higher education organizations said they
were "deeply worried" that the system would not be fully operating by that
deadline. "Efforts to launch such systems without adequate preparation are
doomed to failure," they warned.

Immigration officials seemed annoyed by the letter. "Everyone involved must
recognize that Congress and the American people want this system up and running,
and we intend to do just that," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for
the immigration service.

The colleges continue to argue that the system would not have prevented the
Sept. 11 attacks. In a news release issued on the day President Bush pushed for
tighter controls on student visas, the Association of International Educators
said, "It is clear that singling out only students -- which represent less than
two percent of those visitors -- will not increase our national security."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              39 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 28, 2002 Monday

Effort to track foreign students a slow process;
Despite promises to finally tighten controls on student visas after Sept. 11th,
the government is at least a year away from making the system safer from
terrorists, like those who used the visas while plotting the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing and the September attacks, immigration officials say.

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1617 words


A computer network to track foreign students in the country, originally ordered
by Congress six years ago, is still being tested and will not be up and running
until next year. Even then, immigration service officials said, there will not
be enough enforcement agents to check on all of the visa violators flagged by
the system.

Moreover, colleges that see foreign students as a lucrative market are raising
concerns about how the system will be paid for and operated, and their
objections could delay it even further. At present, officials concede, they do
not know for sure where the 547,000 people holding student visas are attending
school, or whether they actually are.

The halting efforts to plug holes in the student visa system reflect the overall
difficulty of improving domestic defense, most notably airline security. Even in
a world said to be forever changed by terrorism, demands for better security
are, just four months later, hitting an old reality of competing interests,
entrenched lobbies and reluctance to make financial or practical sacrifices.

"As we get further and further from Sept. 11, there has been kind of a
resumption of the traditional battle lines," said Rep. Anthony Weiner, D-N.Y.

Certainly, the Sept. 11 attacks inspired widespread agreement about the need to
change a system that allowed the names of foreign students to pile up unread in
immigration offices and permitted Hani Hanjour, for example, to enter this
country on a student visa and roam free until he flew American Airlines Flight
77 into the Pentagon.

But last week, higher education institutions again raised a raft of objections.

, sending a letter to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that called the
planned system unworkable and demanding technical advisory groups and training.

Keeping track of newcomers on student visas might seem straightforward. But like
other issues of domestic defense, it gets tangled in complexities. Universities
say that policing students violates the culture of academic freedom. In
addition, any new push to monitor the 74,000 universities and technical schools
where foreign students are enrolled will strain government agencies that even
before Sept. 11 were considered the weakest link in fighting terrorism. Even in
big cities, the immigration service assigns only one person to work with
colleges on visas.

The issue is particularly pressing for community and technical colleges, which
rely heavily on foreign students because they pay higher tuition. The colleges
aggressively market themselves with Web sites in Arabic and recruiting trips
around the world. The Illinois Institute of Technology, for example, enrolls a
higher percentage of foreign students than do Harvard, New York University or
Columbia. Overall, foreign students spent $12 billion in the United States last
year.

President Bush first promised better monitoring of student visas in October. On
Friday, he said he was increasing the immigration service budget by 29 percent,
which immigration officials said would largely be used for computer systems to
track the more than 30 million visas issued in this country each year.

Immigration officials said it was unclear if they would be able to hire more
enforcement agents. They said that many of the extra resources the agency had
received in recent years had gone toward tightening the Mexican border. There
are currently only 2,000 immigration enforcement agents nationwide, who have an
array of duties including tracking hundreds of thousands of visa violators.

Michael Becraft, the acting deputy commissioner of the INS, recently told
Congress that it has been hard for the enforcement agents to monitor foreign
students because the agents are "focused in a lot of different directions." Once
the tracking system is completed, the agency will need to find ways to scan the
database to pinpoint the visa violators who seem most likely to pose a threat.

[STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS]

The Iranian hostage crisis in 1979 first raised the possibility of militants
entering the country disguised as students. In 1983, the immigration service
began requiring colleges to report when students showed up and when they left,
to make sure they did not violate the time limits imposed on their visas. But by
1988, the paper forms that reported this information had piled up so high in
immigration offices that officials told the colleges to stop sending them.

Foreign students now apply for visas in their home countries and then report to
the immigration service at the border. But the agency takes six months to a year
to report to the colleges on whom they should be expecting. The colleges do not
confirm that these students actually show up unless the immigration service
asks, which generally does not happen.

The visa forms themselves present several opportunities for abuse. Before
students enter the country, they can receive forms known as I-20s from several
institutions, depending on how many they apply to, which allow them to seek
visas. Community colleges and language schools often have open enrollment, so
students receive several I-20 forms, and immigration officials acknowledge that
those forms can be forged to obtain multiple visas.

In the days after Sept. 11, immigration officials had to admit to Congress that
they had no idea how many foreign students had overstayed or violated their
visas, as Hanjour had.

Certainly other people have taken advantage of the holes in the system. The
terrorist who drove the bomb-laden truck to the World Trade Center in 1993 had
entered the country on a student visa but never enrolled in the language school
he claimed to be attending. In San Diego, several community college officials
were convicted of taking bribes to secure visas for Middle Eastern students from
1989 to 1995.

The first World Trade Center attack prompted Louis J. Freeh, then the director
of the FBI, to call for tighter monitoring of who entered the country. In 1996,
Congress passed a law that required computerized tracking of students when they
received visas, when they entered the country and when they enrolled in college,
allowing the immigration service to quickly tell when they violated the visa's
conditions. The system was to track what they were studying, and any change in
address.

Higher education lobbying groups resisted, however, saying that there was no
evidence that terrorists were abusing student visas and that any limits would
deter foreign students and potentially put their institutions out of business.
Twice they persuaded Congress to delay the start of the system, most recently
until Jan. 2003.

Small language schools, some of which combine three-week language courses with
trips to Disneyland, have resisted almost any oversight; the immigration service
backed off a proposal to have them accredited when the schools said the process
would be too expensive.

"This was a system run for the profit and convenience of the universities, and
it was run more with the intention of making money than anything else," said
Rep. George Miller, D-Calif.

As late as August, the Association of International Educators, the most
outspoken opponent of the computerized system, sent a letter to its members
encouraging them to support a bill to repeal the law requiring it.

The association endorsed the system in the days after Sept. 11, in part to fend
off an effort in Congress to impose an outright moratorium on student visas.

But the regulations dictating how and when the colleges will be required to
enter the information in the system remain to be worked out, and the
institutions still object to many aspects of the plan. In particular, they warn
that a proposal to collect a $95 fee from visa applicants would cause too much
delay and steer students to competing countries like Australia and Canada.

"We're losing a market share of students who were going to come here," said
George Beers, dean of international and distance education at Foothill College
in Los Altos Hills, Calif., where $11 million of a $130 million budget comes
from foreign students. "I think there's some overreaction in Congress, there's a
few senators that feel they need to show they're doing something, and this is an
easy, very visible area."

The colleges have also objected to a plan proposed by Miller that would prevent
foreign students from receiving diplomas until they confirm that they have
either returned home or extended their visas.

The immigration service says it plans to have its new system ready for colleges
to use voluntarily this summer, and will offer them training in the fall. Since
Sept. 11, Congress has insisted that the system must be in operation by next
January.

In the letter released last week, the higher education organizations said they
were "deeply worried" that the system would not be fully operating by that
deadline. "Efforts to launch such systems without adequate preparation are
doomed to failure," they warned.

Immigration officials seemed annoyed by the letter. "Everyone involved must
recognize that Congress and the American people want this system up and running,
and we intend to do just that," said Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for
the immigration service.

The colleges continue to argue that the system would not have prevented the
Sept. 11 attacks. In a news release issued on the day President Bush pushed for
tighter controls on student visas, the Association of International Educators
said, "It is clear that singling out only students -- which represent less than
two percent of those visitors -- will not increase our national security."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              40 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 8, 2002 Friday

British official wants to require that would-be citizens pass language test;
By Beth Gardiner The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Having spread English around the globe, Britain now wants to insist the language
be spoken here by immigrants seeking citizenship.

Home Secretary David Blunkett proposed an immigration overhaul Thursday that he
said would tighten the rules without making the country a fortress against new
arrivals.

A key element is teaching immigrants what it means to be British -- and they can
do it by learning to speak Welsh if they choose.

Blunkett proposed requiring would-be citizens to show they've passed a language
test -- official sensitivity to nationalistic feeling in Scotland and Wales
means Gaelic and Welsh are given the same status as English.

Practically speaking, though, the proposal amounts to an English requirement.
The proposal brought opposition from some immigrant advocate groups who feared
it will bar some would-be citizens and could stoke anti-immigrant sentiment.

The law already says immigrants should have a command of one of the three
languages before gaining citizenship, but Blunkett said the provision is rarely
enforced.

"I believe it is fundamentally important that people living in the U.K. on a
permanent basis should be able to take a full and active role in our society,"
he said. "To encourage this we will ask that applicants for naturalization
demonstrate a certain standard of language."

Would-be citizens would also have to show a basic knowledge of British values
and institutions, but Blunkett gave no details of what that would entail. The
plan must be approved by Parliament to become law.

The United States has similar language and American history requirements for
naturalized citizens.

Tauhid Pasha, legal director of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants,
said imposing an English language test could end up "disenfranchising someone
from their rights."

Some "will be denied the opportunity to become fully fledged members of British
society," he said. Most immigrants already speak some English and those who
can't are generally elderly, illiterate or have learning problems.

Immigration has become a highly charged issue in Britain. Newspapers frequently
feature photographs of migrants trying to sneak through the Eurotunnel from
France.

, and political parties vie to be seen as toughest on illegal arrivals.

Pasha accused Blunkett of "pandering to racists by making assertions that
migrants or immigrants are not British or are not loyal."

Blunkett said his plan will make the immigration system fairer and more
efficient and help integrate new arrivals into British life.

Britain must tighten its borders and stop abuse while also providing more ways
for immigrants to enter the country legally, he argued.

"We are not a fortress Britain,'" the home secretary said. "We are an open,
trading economy, and we need to ensure that we can recruit the people we need to
compete and prosper in the new global economy."

He said the plan had provisions for speeding asylum applications. He also
proposed requiring that those who gain citizenship by marrying Britons remain
married for two years instead of the one now necessary before they can be
naturalized.

Also on the list of proposals is a new penalty of up to 14 years in prison for
those convicted of trafficking in humans.

Blunkett also hopes to make citizenship more meaningful by holding swearing-in
ceremonies instead of just sending new citizens their passports by mail.

Immigrants would recite a proposed new oath that keeps a pledge of allegiance to
Queen Elizabeth II but adds a profession of loyalty to "the rights and freedoms
of the United Kingdom" and "its democratic values."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              41 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 8, 2002 Friday

British official wants to require that would-be citizens pass language test;
By Beth Gardiner The Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: LONDON


Having spread English around the globe, Britain now wants to insist the language
be spoken here by immigrants seeking citizenship.

Home Secretary David Blunkett proposed an immigration overhaul Thursday that he
said would tighten the rules without making the country a fortress against new
arrivals.

A key element is teaching immigrants what it means to be British -- and they can
do it by learning to speak Welsh if they choose.

Blunkett proposed requiring would-be citizens to show they've passed a language
test -- official sensitivity to nationalistic feeling in Scotland and Wales
means Gaelic and Welsh are given the same status as English.

Practically speaking, though, the proposal amounts to an English requirement.
The proposal brought opposition from some immigrant advocate groups who feared
it will bar some would-be citizens and could stoke anti-immigrant sentiment.

The law already says immigrants should have a command of one of the three
languages before gaining citizenship, but Blunkett said the provision is rarely
enforced.

"I believe it is fundamentally important that people living in the U.K. on a
permanent basis should be able to take a full and active role in our society,"
he said. "To encourage this we will ask that applicants for naturalization
demonstrate a certain standard of language."

Would-be citizens would also have to show a basic knowledge of British values
and institutions, but Blunkett gave no details of what that would entail. The
plan must be approved by Parliament to become law.

The United States has similar language and American history requirements for
naturalized citizens.

Tauhid Pasha, legal director of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants,
said imposing an English language test could end up "disenfranchising someone
from their rights."

Some "will be denied the opportunity to become fully fledged members of British
society," he said. Most immigrants already speak some English and those who
can't are generally elderly, illiterate or have learning problems.

Immigration has become a highly charged issue in Britain. Newspapers frequently
feature photographs of migrants trying to sneak through the Eurotunnel from
France.

, and political parties vie to be seen as toughest on illegal arrivals.

Pasha accused Blunkett of "pandering to racists by making assertions that
migrants or immigrants are not British or are not loyal."

Blunkett said his plan will make the immigration system fairer and more
efficient and help integrate new arrivals into British life.

Britain must tighten its borders and stop abuse while also providing more ways
for immigrants to enter the country legally, he argued.

"We are not a fortress Britain,'" the home secretary said. "We are an open,
trading economy, and we need to ensure that we can recruit the people we need to
compete and prosper in the new global economy."

He said the plan had provisions for speeding asylum applications. He also
proposed requiring that those who gain citizenship by marrying Britons remain
married for two years instead of the one now necessary before they can be
naturalized.

Also on the list of proposals is a new penalty of up to 14 years in prison for
those convicted of trafficking in humans.

Blunkett also hopes to make citizenship more meaningful by holding swearing-in
ceremonies instead of just sending new citizens their passports by mail.

Immigrants would recite a proposed new oath that keeps a pledge of allegiance to
Queen Elizabeth II but adds a profession of loyalty to "the rights and freedoms
of the United Kingdom" and "its democratic values."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              42 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 26, 2002 Tuesday

INS blunders prove need for major shake-up

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 711 words


WE can't say we blame the congressional representatives who agreed to dismantle
the troubled Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency sunk its own
boat in the blunder of blunders. Six months after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, INS issued student visa approval notices to a Florida flight school for
Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi, the two hijackers who flew the planes into
the World Trade Center.

Is there anyone in the nation who wouldn't have recognized the name Mohamed
Atta, believed to be the ringleader of the attacks? It's bad enough some of the
terrorists were able to use the student visa program to get into the country.
But to be approved after they have already committed the worst terrorist attack
on American soil, killing themselves and more than 2,800 innocent civilians?

Apparently at the INS, bureaucratic bungling trumps everything. You've got to
wonder if the agency would have noticed anything out of the ordinary in issuing
a visa approval for Adolf Hitler.

So it's little wonder lawmakers have come up with a plan that would replace the
INS with separate bureaus for the enforcement of immigration laws and the
provision of immigration services. In the House version, the two bureaus would
report to an assistant attorney general for immigration affairs who would be
third in command at the Justice Department. A plan being prepared by Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., is slightly different, splitting the INS into two agencies
that would report to an administrator appointed by the president.

We're all for major reform and now, but we worry the plans to dismantle the INS
and replace it with two bureaus may have been drawn up too hastily and could
simply multiply the inefficiencies and incompetence by two.

The INS has long been considered the worst-run agency in the federal government.
Considering the competition, that's quite a distinction. With the responsibility
to both enforce immigration laws and provide services to immigrants, the agency
seemed to have a split personality that rendered it incapable of doing either
job.

Stories about rude treatment by the INS officers are commonplace, not just among
immigrants who are not citizens, but among citizens the INS agents don't think
look like citizens. In many cases, those are people with darker skin.

While they harassed people who were born here or had legal documentation of
their residency or work status, they were notoriously incapable of preventing a
flood of illegal immigration.

Sept. 11 revealed a string of loopholes in the student visa system the
terrorists exploited to get into the country. The INS does not notify a school
that a prospective student has been granted a visa. Therefore the school does
not know if the student has gotten a visa until he or she shows up. So, for
example, when one of the hijackers who had signed up for a language class at
Oakland's Holy Names College never arrived, school officials did not know he had
been granted a visa. They couldn't notify the State Department that he never
arrived.

Furthermore, the INS does not keep track of whether students leave the country
when their visas have expired. We said back in October the INS needed to reform
the system. With faxes and e-mails, there is absolutely no reason the INS can't
immediately inform schools that students have entered the country and been
granted a visa and receive immediate verification the students reported to their
stated destination. Similarly, computers should make it easy to track whether a
person has left when his or her visa has expired.

Clearly the INS has done nothing to plug these loopholes in the six months since
the attacks. Apparently it hasn't even bothered to wake up its bureaucrats who
mindlessly pushed through a visa approval for one of the most infamous people in
recent memory.

We need a major shake-up in the mentality and culture that would allow such
mindlessness. We need decisive leadership to come up with an immediate action
plan to turn things around. We're not yet convinced we need two separate bureaus
of the INS, but keep pushing.

One thing we're sure of, the INS has to change dramatically, whether it's
reformed, replaced or merged with other services. And the sooner the better.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              43 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             April 26, 2002 Friday

Bill to split INS into 2 agencies OK'd by House

BYLINE:  By Jesse J. Holland

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service would be scrapped, replaced by new
agencies separately handling immigration and deportations under a bill the House
overwhelmingly passed Thursday.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, who pushed the measure through faster than the White
House wanted but eventually got its blessing, called for abolishing an embattled
INS he described as an "undesirable and unwanted stepchild."

"It carries out neither of its crucial missions effectively, enforcing our
immigration laws or providing services to immigrants playing by the

rules," said Sensenbrenner, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The bill passed the GOP-controlled House 405-9. It now goes to the Senate.

The Democratic-led Senate will begin work next week on its own version. INS
Commissioner James Ziglar is to appear May 2 before the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration.

Both the House bill and a Senate measure sponsored by the subcommittee chairman,
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., would eliminate Ziglar's position.

"Sept. 11 taught us that immigration and border security issues are too
important to be ignored and mishandled," Kennedy said.

Under Sensenbrenner's plan, the Justice Department would create a single agency
to enforce laws and keep unqualified people from entering the United States. A
second agency would smooth the way to possible citizenship for legal immigrants.

Many in Congress believe abolishing the INS is necessary because of a series of
foul-ups.

Notice of previously approved visa extensions for two of the 19 Sept. 11
hijackers was mailed months after the attacks. Also, a government aviation
newsletter was still being mailed to another hijacker long after his death.
Although all 19 hijackers came on valid visas, several were illegally in the
country at the time of the attacks.

The immigration service also has been criticized for years because of huge
backlogs of applications for naturalization or permanent residence.

We should "stop giving more and more money to the agency each year as a reward
for squandering the money we gave it the year before," Sensenbrenner said.

Sensenbrenner's plan would create a new associate attorney general to oversee
the new agencies. Kennedy's would rely on what he said would be a stronger
immigration affairs director.

"Now is not the time to diminish the power of the person running the nation's
immigration agency," he said.

Sensenbrenner refused to wait on the Bush administration to attempt an internal
reorganization of the INS. He pushed his bill forward even though Ziglar told
the House Judiciary Committee that the administration had its own plan.

The White House and the Justice Department, in return, refused to ask for any
changes to the bill. They waited until hours before the vote to publicly endorse
the GOP-pushed bill. Even then, Attorney General John Ashcroft said officials
would work with the Senate or a House-Senate negotiating committee to make the
changes they want.

The administration wants to remove the House's limitations on whom the president
can place in charge of the immigration agency, and wants that official to have
more power than Sensenbrenner's bill would allow.

"This is not the end of the journey," Ashcroft said. "This is an important first
step essential to the journey's end, but not sufficient to get us there."

Seven Democrats voted against the bill, including Rep. Melvin Watt of North
Carolina. "You've got one inefficient, unproductive INS now; it seems to me what
you're going to end up with is two inefficient agencies," Watt said.

The other Democrats who voted against the bill were Reps. Zoe Lofgren of
California, Patsy Mink and Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii, Earl Pomeroy of North
Dakota, Eva Clayton of North Carolina and Mike Honda of California. GOP Rep. Jim
Kolbe of Arizona and independent Rep. Bernie Sanders of Vermont also voted
against the bill.

On the Net: Information on the House bill, H.R. 3231, can be found at
thomas.loc.gov House Judiciary Committee: www.house.gov/judiciary Immigration
and Naturalization Service: www.ins.gov Administrative plan to restructure INS:
www.ins.gov /graphics/aboutins/restruct/index.htm

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              44 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              June 4, 2002 Tuesday

L.A. city attorney: Keep cops away from immigration;
Fears immigrant

BYLINE: By Daisy Nguyen, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The city attorney said Monday he will resist a proposal being considered by the
U.S. Justice Department that would give local and state police the authority to
enforce federal immigration laws.

Such a policy change would place a burden on the already overtaxed Los Angeles
Police Department and jeopardize relationships that officers have built with the
city's immigrant communities, said City Attorney Rockard J. Delgadillo.

It could also create a chilling effect on immigrant victims and witnesses coming
forward to report crimes, he said.

"I will fight it," Delgadillo said. "And part of that fight is to say, You have
no authority to do it.'"

Delgadillo wrote a letter to President Bush and Attorney General John Ashcroft
last week saying the enforcement of immigration laws should remain the
responsibility of the federal government, not local police.

The Justice Department has not provided details about the idea floated in a
legal opinion written by its attorneys.

"We're exploring many options to enforce immigration laws," said department
spokesman Dan Nelson.

The proposal is part of the Justice Department's effort to address security
concerns after the Sept. 11 attacks. Supporters say scrutiny by local officers
could limit the potential for terrorism by illegal immigrants. States such as
Florida and South Carolina are considering similar initiatives.

The proposals, however, are spreading fear throughout immigrants, who worry they
could be detained and deported, Delgadillo said.

"Residents of our immigrant communities will have to balance their desire to
assist local law enforcement with the fear of federal immigration officials
investigating not only them but their families and friends," he said.

Since 1979, the LAPD has adhered to a policy that bars officers from initiating
investigations based on immigration status.

"It's been in our manuals for so long, it's just been our department policy,"
said police spokesman Sgt. John Pasquariello.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              45 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              June 4, 2002 Tuesday

L.A. city attorney: Keep cops away from immigration;
Fears immigrant

BYLINE: By Daisy Nguyen, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The city attorney said Monday he will resist a proposal being considered by the
U.S. Justice Department that would give local and state police the authority to
enforce federal immigration laws.

Such a policy change would place a burden on the already overtaxed Los Angeles
Police Department and jeopardize relationships that officers have built with the
city's immigrant communities, said City Attorney Rockard J. Delgadillo.

It could also create a chilling effect on immigrant victims and witnesses coming
forward to report crimes, he said.

"I will fight it," Delgadillo said. "And part of that fight is to say, You have
no authority to do it.'"

Delgadillo wrote a letter to President Bush and Attorney General John Ashcroft
last week saying the enforcement of immigration laws should remain the
responsibility of the federal government, not local police.

The Justice Department has not provided details about the idea floated in a
legal opinion written by its attorneys.

"We're exploring many options to enforce immigration laws," said department
spokesman Dan Nelson.

The proposal is part of the Justice Department's effort to address security
concerns after the Sept. 11 attacks. Supporters say scrutiny by local officers
could limit the potential for terrorism by illegal immigrants. States such as
Florida and South Carolina are considering similar initiatives.

The proposals, however, are spreading fear throughout immigrants, who worry they
could be detained and deported, Delgadillo said.

"Residents of our immigrant communities will have to balance their desire to
assist local law enforcement with the fear of federal immigration officials
investigating not only them but their families and friends," he said.

Since 1979, the LAPD has adhered to a policy that bars officers from initiating
investigations based on immigration status.

"It's been in our manuals for so long, it's just been our department policy,"
said police spokesman Sgt. John Pasquariello.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              46 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday

Palestinian refugee admits to threatening to destroy airplane;
Former Anaheim tax accountant could get six years in prison

BYLINE: By Chelsea J. Carter, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A Palestinian refugee pleaded guilty to threatening to destroy a Northwest
Airlines airplane when federal immigration authorities tried to move him from
California to New York.

Mohammad Mahmoud Bachir, 43, pleaded guilty to one felony count stemming from
the threat and one misdemeanor count of resisting a detention officer under a
plea agreement reached Friday with federal prosecutors.

According to the agreement released Monday, Bachir resisted Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents' efforts to move him from a van to the airplane on
Feb. 15.

Once on the airplane, according to the agreement, Bachir screamed "I will crash
this plane if I have the chance. I don't care if this airplane goes down,"
prompting Northwest employees to ask that he be removed from the flight.

Bachir was scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 30. He faces up to six years in
prison.

Bachir's attorney, Humberto Diaz, confirmed the plea bargain but would not
comment on it. U.S. Attorney John B. Owens would not comment on the plea
bargain.

"The statement here is what he agreed he said," Owens said.

The case is the latest in a string of incidents between the INS and the former
Anaheim tax accountant dating back to the mid-1990s.

Bachir had a custody dispute with his ex-wife that resulted in charges he
abducted the couple's son, taking him to Lebanon. The child was returned, and
Bachir served a two-year sentence.

The INS sought to deport Bachir, who was born in a Lebanese refugee camp, but
court records show Lebanon refused to accept him. He is listed as stateless.

In 1999, he helped lead 16 detainees in a hunger strike at Hillsborough County
Jail in Manchester, N.H. The group alleged they were physically and verbally
abused at the jail, which also was used as an INS detention center.

Bachir was released from custody in April after a federal judge ruled the INS
could not hold immigrants indefinitely. He was detained again in early February
for failing to check in with authorities and for violating a restraining order
by placing a call to his ex-wife.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              47 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 9, 2002 Tuesday

Palestinian refugee admits to threatening to destroy airplane;
Former Anaheim tax accountant could get six years in prison

BYLINE: By Chelsea J. Carter, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A Palestinian refugee pleaded guilty to threatening to destroy a Northwest
Airlines airplane when federal immigration authorities tried to move him from
California to New York.

Mohammad Mahmoud Bachir, 43, pleaded guilty to one felony count stemming from
the threat and one misdemeanor count of resisting a detention officer under a
plea agreement reached Friday with federal prosecutors.

According to the agreement released Monday, Bachir resisted Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents' efforts to move him from a van to the airplane on
Feb. 15.

Once on the airplane, according to the agreement, Bachir screamed "I will crash
this plane if I have the chance. I don't care if this airplane goes down,"
prompting Northwest employees to ask that he be removed from the flight.

Bachir was scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 30. He faces up to six years in
prison.

Bachir's attorney, Humberto Diaz, confirmed the plea bargain but would not
comment on it. U.S. Attorney John B. Owens would not comment on the plea
bargain.

"The statement here is what he agreed he said," Owens said.

The case is the latest in a string of incidents between the INS and the former
Anaheim tax accountant dating back to the mid-1990s.

Bachir had a custody dispute with his ex-wife that resulted in charges he
abducted the couple's son, taking him to Lebanon. The child was returned, and
Bachir served a two-year sentence.

The INS sought to deport Bachir, who was born in a Lebanese refugee camp, but
court records show Lebanon refused to accept him. He is listed as stateless.

In 1999, he helped lead 16 detainees in a hunger strike at Hillsborough County
Jail in Manchester, N.H. The group alleged they were physically and verbally
abused at the jail, which also was used as an INS detention center.

Bachir was released from custody in April after a federal judge ruled the INS
could not hold immigrants indefinitely. He was detained again in early February
for failing to check in with authorities and for violating a restraining order
by placing a call to his ex-wife.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              48 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             July 23, 2002 Tuesday

White House dusts off law for tracking noncitizens Immigrants must file
addresses with government

BYLINE: FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 781 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


To the dismay of immigrant groups, the Bush administration announced Monday it
will resume enforcement of a 50-year-old law that requires noncitizens to keep
the government informed of their current addresses.

The administration acknowledged that the law has not been enforced for years,
but said the action was necessary to help track the movement of aliens within
the country and to speed the deportation of any immigrant suspected of doing
something wrong.

Both immigrant advocacy groups and their foes heaped scorn on the move, saying
that the much-criticized INS doesn't have the resources to handle the millions
of forms that the action will force noncitizens to file with the government.

Alex Garcia, a Costa Rica native who was getting his hair cut in San Mateo on
Monday, said the INS was treating him like a child molester by forcing him to
notify the agency whenever he moves.

"I don't like it," said Garcia, who lives in the East Bay. "I don't agree with
it."

Garcia said he is a law-abiding, tax-paying resident, who has earned two
advanced degrees in the United States and is raising his children here, but the
government is treating him like a potential terrorist.

Another critic was Oakland City Council President Ignacio De La Fuente, who was
once denied citizenship after being arrested at a labor picket. Like many legal
immigrants, De La Fuente had no idea the law existed.

"I think this is absolutely outrageous. I don't think it will make any
difference in fighting terrorism," he said. "This is a waste of resources. How
does INS find out if the information people give is accurate? They will have to
selectively enforce it.

"This makes no sense to me. It's not going to stop terrorists. You do that by
controlling our borders."

Edward Murrell, an immigration attorney in San Jose, said the measure would
further separate immigrants from the INS.

"This is a crafty way of gaining the power to deport just about anybody the
government wants," he said. "The result will be that immigrants refuse to work
with the Justice Department."

Lisa Naverrete, a spokeswoman for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
civil rights group, called it "a colossal waste of resources" and predicted
failure. "It seems like a complete bureaucratic nightmare," she said.

Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington group that has been critical of U.S. policies on the subject,
predicted that the rule would affect upwards of 12 million people. A breakdown
by state was not available.

"It could take a fair amount of effort," Camarota said. "And I'm not sure it
would give us the information we want. If a terrorist wants to stay below the
radar, he might not give you the correct information on where he is living."

The Justice Department said in a statement that it decided to enforce the rules
as part of its post-Sept. 11 efforts to strengthen border security. "The
clarification of the existing address-reporting requirement is an important
further step in the department's ongoing efforts to improve its ability to track
non-citizens within the United States," the department said.

It said the action "complements" a tracking system for non-citizens that
Congress mandated be in place by 2005. In recent border legislation, Congress
seemed to recognize the INS's inability to track aliens. It then directed the
General Accounting Office to study "the feasibility" of requiring aliens to
report their addresses once a year.

The Bush proposal would require non-citizens to report any change of address
within 10 days of moving. Aliens are required to give an initial address when
they arrive in the country.

Camarota said the INS quietly dropped the change-of-address requirement in 1980
after it tired of filing the changes in "shoe boxes." He suggested requiring
verification of work sites would be a more useful way of tracking non-citizens.

"In neither case [change-of-address or work-site verifications] does the INS
have the resources to do this," he said. "They're overwhelmed."

The Justice Department said it was publishing rules that will create address
forms that non-citizens must file with the government. Any non-citizen who fails
to file a form can be ordered out of the country "in absentia" -- without being
present for the proceeding, the department noted.

"It's a lofty goal," said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a leader of congressional
efforts to restrict immigration. "But just saying something like this doesn't
mean that the Department of Justice or INS have the capacity of doing it."

Staff Writers Bret Putnam and Sean Holstege contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              49 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 24, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH PLANS TO LIMIT NEW IMMIGRATION RULES

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 63 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


President Bush on Thursday promised illegal immigrants a worker program of some
type to legalize their labor in the United States, but he ruled out any blanket
amnesty.

"There's going to be no amnesty," the president said near his ranch in Crawford.
Bush is due to announce proposed immigration changes, which Mexico wants, when
Mexican President Vicente Fox visits Sept. 5.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 1, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AHEAD OF FOX VISIT, BUSH WARNS: AMNESTY PUSH APPEARS STALLED

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON AND MORRIS THOMPSON, Mercury News Washington, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush acknowledged Friday that his effort to liberalize immigration
policy is bogged down in political quicksand and said he does not expect any
breakthroughs during next week's state visit by Mexican President Vicente Fox.

Officials from both countries had hoped to cap Fox's three-day visit with a
far-reaching proposal designed to make it easier for Mexican workers to enter
the United States legally. Instead, Bush and Fox will settle for a broad
"statement of principles" that dodges the issue of what to do about illegal
workers who are already here.

Fox, the first foreign leader Bush has honored with an official state visit,
will visit the White House on Wednesday to open a whirlwind tour that includes a
formal state dinner, a speech to a joint session of Congress and an excursion to
the U.S. heartland on Air Force One. The two presidents will travel to Toledo,
Ohio, on Thursday to visit a family-resource center that serves
Mexican-Americans.

In an Oval Office interview with Texas reporters Friday, Bush sought to dampen
expectations of a major shift in immigration policy. Acknowledging criticism
from anti-immigrant groups and some of his fellow Republicans in Congress, Bush
said he was in no rush to alter the law.

The effort to liberalize immigration policy toward Mexico began with great
fanfare in February, when Fox hosted the new U.S. president at his ranch in San
Cristobal. In a sign of his commitment, Bush assigned Secretary of State Colin
Powell and Attorney General John Ashcroft to work with their Mexican
counterparts on a range of options that included a new guest-worker program for
Mexicans and amnesty for illegal workers.

Six months later, the effort appears to be stalled.

"It's going to take awhile to develop a specific set of recommendations for
Congress to mull over," Bush said. "The complexity of the issue is such that
we've got to spend time on it."

He declined to offer a timetable for action, saying only, "as soon as is
realistic."

The president also expressed concerns that the stagnant U.S. economy might make
Americans less willing to accept foreign workers.

"The slowing down of our economy is going to affect job creation," he said.
"This is a slow economy, particularly in the manufacturing sector, and it's
going to affect all jobs -- the jobs of people who live in America today and the
jobs of people who might be seeking work in America tomorrow."

Although Bush said he supports the concept of a guest-worker program, he said he
is undecided on whether workers should be allowed to seek permanent resident
status or citizenship.

"That's part of the issue that we're working out," he said. "One of the issues
we've got to deal with is the fairness issue. The issue is: Should someone who
has been waiting in line be supplanted by someone who didn't go through the
legal process?"

Some Republicans worry that legalizing Mexican workers will help Democrats,
because Mexican-Americans traditionally vote Democratic.

"Immigration is basically the Kevorkian cocktail for the Republicans --it's
suicidal," said Dan Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, an
organization that favors more restrictions on immigration. "Bush is leading
Republicans down a road that they're not going to be willing to go down."

Fox has repeatedly urged the United States to loosen its immigration policies.
More than 3 million Mexicans are thought to be in the United States illegally,
and the money they send home has become a vital part of Mexico's sputtering
economy.

The issue has become a test of clout for the new Mexican president, who is
determined to elevate his country's status on the world stage. Although Fox has
made fast friends with Bush and other foreign leaders, his popularity in Mexico
has declined along with that nation's economy.

"He knows that his trip won't solve the migration problem," said Luis Pazos, a
prominent Mexican legislator and a member of Fox's National Action Party. "But
he can show Congress and the public that Mexico is now an open country, with
which all kinds of new arrangements are possible."

At the same time, Fox is under pressure to produce results to help counter his
domestic critics.

Sen. Humberto Roque Villanueva of the Institutional Revolutionary Party said Fox
is living "the syndrome of Gorbachev, who was wildly popular abroad, while
people in the Soviet Union wouldn't give a centavo for him."

Fox's visit to the United States is his sixth trip north of the border since he
took office Dec. 1 and his fifth visit with Bush. He again will be vigorous in
his efforts to sell a different vision of Mexico.

After a formal arrival ceremony Wednesday on the White House South Lawn, Fox and
Bush will preside over a joint U.S.-Mexican Cabinet meeting.

Wednesday night, Bush will host his first state dinner. In contrast with former
President Clinton, who favored larger gatherings in the East Room of the White
House, Bush and his wife, Laura, plan to use the more intimate setting of the
mansion's State Dining Room.

"It's going to be a formal, elegant affair," Bush said. Fox will be accompanied
by his new wife, Marta, his former aide, whom he married in July.

Thursday, Fox will address a joint session of Congress before heading off to
Toledo with Bush. They will return to Washington that night for a dinner hosted
by Fox at Blair House, across the street from the White House.

Friday, Fox will meet with congressional leaders and AFL-CIO chief John Sweeney,
who wants undocumented workers legalized -- and unionized. He also will speak to
the Organization of American States before traveling to Miami for a speech at a
Miami Herald conference on the Americas, followed by dinner with Florida Gov.
Jeb Bush, the president's brother, who is married to a native Mexican.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related story: page 7A
Ron Hutcheson reported from Washington, Morris Thompson from Mexico City.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOHN MOORE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Mexican President Vicente Fox, shown here with President Bush in February, will
make a three-day U.S. visit next week.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 17, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

C. DANIEL LEVY, 48;
LAWYER AIDED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LOS ANGELES TIMES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 296 words


C. Daniel Levy, who turned to law after studying anthropology and became a
nationally known defender of immigrant and refugee rights, died Friday after a
long fight with cancer. The West Hollywood resident was 48.

Mr. Levy, a native of Peru, helped litigate numerous landmark cases centering on
the rights of naturalized citizens, children and families. Many are complex
class action suits that have taken years to resolve.

"We have prematurely lost a great scholar, colleague and friend," said Daniel
Grunfeld, president of Public Counsel, where Mr. Levy had headed the Immigrants'
Rights Project since February. "Daniel will be remembered not only for his
extraordinary professional accomplishments, but also for his courage, dignity
and gentleness."

Among the best-known cases Mr. Levy worked on was the ultimately successful
effort to free six Iraqi opposition leaders held in detention in California.

Mr. Levy's lengthy treatise, "U.S. Citizenship and Naturalization Handbook," is
recognized as a leading work of its kind on the subject.

Mr. Levy was born in Lima, Peru, where his family ran a textile business. He
came to the United States in 1970 and studied philosophy and anthropology at
Columbia University in New York.

Mr. Levy entered law school at Columbia, graduating in 1985.

Mr. Levy came to Los Angeles and served during 1986-87 as a staff attorney for
El Rescate Legal Services. He represented Central Americans seeking political
asylum in the United States.

In 1987, Mr. Levy became a staff attorney with the National Immigration Law
Center in Los Angeles. He joined the Los Angeles offices of Bernard P. Wolfsdorf
in 1995 as a senior attorney. Mr. Levy entered solo practice in 1999 before
joining Public Counsel's staff this year.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Obituaries

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 18, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ATTACKS SHIFT DISCUSSION ON IMMIGRATION CONCERN OVER TERRORISM PROMPTS SOME TO
CONSIDER CLOSER SCRUTINY OF THE U.S. STUDENT VISA PROGRAM

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG AND MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 819 words


Just two weeks ago, hopes were riding high that the United States would loosen
up its immigration laws. Now, reforms are on the back burner and attitudes
toward immigration have dramatically shifted.

Terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon last week have left
officials skeptical of freer immigration policies. Recent conversations between
President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox about amnesty andguest worker
programs have been replaced with questions of how terrorists entered the United
States, and if it's possible they got in using student visas.

Tightening the borders

As investigations into the attacks proceed, civil rights and immigration
advocates fear that Bush's "war on terrorism" may lead to stricter immigration
rules.

The INS already is developing an electronic tracking system for international
students while they attend U.S. colleges and universities. But some say the
attacks might prompt even closer scrutiny of the student visa program.

"We're concerned about security interests being played out in the immigration
arena," said Robert Rubin, legal director for the Lawyers' Committee for Civil
Rights in San Francisco. "There's a lot of frustration with U.S. intelligence.
But let's try to avoid targeting communities based on a notion of collective
guilt."

The FBI believes that Hani Hanjour, a pilot suspected of helping hijack the
plane that crashed into the Pentagon, may be the same man who came to the United
States on a student visa intending to study at an Oakland language school. The
man who was supposed to go to the Oakland school never showed up.

"It's one of the easiest ways for people -- particularly young people -- to get
in," said Jim Dorcy, a 30-year veteran of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service (INS) and a member of the Federation of American Immigration Reform.
"The government needs to clamp down on student visas."

In 1999, the State Department issued 250,000 student visas.

The INS press office did not respond to phone calls and messages about student
visa policies.

Student visas, called F-1, M-1 and J-1 visas, are issued by the State
Department. After acceptance into a university, language school or vocational
school, an applicant applies to the U.S. consulate or embassy in his or her home
country. The applicant must provide proof of acceptance, evidence of ability to
pay tuition, an application and other customary application materials such as
photographs and a passport.

In most cases, the applicant is interviewed by a consulate officer and then
screened by the State Department's name-check system, said Christopher Lamora,
spokesman for the Bureau of Consular Affairs at the State Department.

Lamora wouldn't say what sources are used for the name check. But he said that
the screening system would alert the State Department "if the person had a
particular history or raised causes of concern."

After entering the United States, the student is under the supervision of the
INS, and universities are required to appoint a liaison between the students and
the INS.

The INS and universities, however, do not have a system of communicating with
each other as to when a student arrives in the United States or whether the
student enrolls, according to officials at the University of California-Berkeley
and Stanford University.

Under the 1996 immigration reform laws enacted by Congress, the INS had to
create the electronic tracking system. But implementation is scheduled to begin
only next year, university officials said.

"I suspect that this whole thing is going to demand tremendous introspection
from the immigration service," said John Pearson, director of Stanford's Bechtel
International Center, which handles visa issues for Stanford's 2,700
international students, who make up 20 percent of the student body. Pearson
believes the attacks will spur a much quicker implementation of the electronic
system, among other things. "What we may see is a more proactive INS."

Will security improve?

Whether such a system will improve the nation's security is another matter, said
Ted Goode, director of Services for International Students and Scholars at
UC-Berkeley. Roughly 2,500 of the school's 30,000 students are international
students. Goode, like Pearson, believes the focus on student visas unfairly
singles out international students as being more dangerous thanothers.

"I just think it's dangerous, but easily concluded by the U.S., that the F-1 is
a leak in the dike and we need to plug it," said Ted Goode. "Do I think it's
going to have any impact on enrollment on the UC-Berkeley campus? Probably --
only because some parents won't think the U.S. is a safe enough environment."

But Goode thinks any restrictions on the visa won't deter terrorists.

"My belief is that they could come on anything," he said. "If they intend to do
it, they'll find a way."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Attack on America
Pleas For Tolerance
RELATED STORY: page 1A-10A, 12A-13A, 15A-16A
MONITORING STUDENT VISAS
* Student visas are issued by the State Department at U.S. diplomatic stations
abroad. After acceptance into a university, language school, or vocational
school, applicants apply to the U.S. consulate or embassy in their home country.

* In most cases, the applicant is interviewed by a consulate officer and then
screened by the State Department's name check system.
* The screening system is designed to alert the State Department "if the person
had a particular history or raised causes of concern."

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 27, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEINSTEIN BACKS STRICTER CONTROLS ON STUDENT VISAS

BYLINE: MARK SHERMAN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., wants to close U.S. borders to new foreign
students for six months to give immigration authorities time to put in place
initial background checks and a tracking system once students are in this
country.

The proposal was prompted by the discovery that a suspected hijacker in the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks entered the country with a student visa. Hani
Hanjour, suspected of being on the airliner that crashed into the Pentagon, said
he would study English at Holy Names College in Oakland. He never enrolled.

"I know this isn't politically correct, but what has happened . . . indicates I
think serious caution is a prudent thing on our part," Feinstein said Wednesday.
She plans to introduce her proposal in coming weeks.

Foreign students apply to U.S. schools from their home countries, then go to the
nearest U.S. consulate or embassy to apply for a visa. The State Department
decides whether a visa should be issued but, Feinstein said, it is crucial to
have the Immigration and Naturalization Service involved in the screening
process.

Her legislation also will call for giving the INS $32.3 million for a
computerized monitoring system to track foreign students once they are in the
country.

The system would apply to the nearly 600,000 foreign students at U.S.colleges
and universities.

Congress authorized such a database in response to the 1993 bombing of the World
Trade Center. But the program languished amid political opposition and remains
only a pilot project involving 25 schools.

The database program would require schools to report any change in a foreign
student's status, such as enrollment or a move to a new address.

David Ward, the president of the American Council on Education, said he opposes
suspension of visas, but supports a tracking system and stepped-up screening. He
said only 2 percent of all foreign visitors come on student visas, so a
screening system for them alone would not solve the security problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ATTACK ON AMERICA

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Feinstein
She seeks a 6-month halt in granting visas so a tracking system can be created.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 13, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SECURITY CHANGES INCLUDE NEW IMMIGRANT ID CARDS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: CANADA


Immigrants to Canada will get a new plastic photo ID card instead of papers that
are easily forged, the government said Friday -- the latest security measure
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.

Immigration officials also will have broader powers to detain and deport anyone
trying to enter the country illegally, Immigration Minister Elinor Caplan told a
news conference at the border crossing at Niagara Falls.

The tighter immigration measures follow earlier announcements this week that
Canada was spending $165 million to bolster security at airports, toughen
anti-terrorism laws and crack down on immigration fraud in response to the
attacks in New York and Washington.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 27, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAIL OPTION SHORTENS LINES AT INS OFFICE;
CHANGES AFFECT THOSE WANTING TO SUBMIT RESIDENCY PAPERWORK

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY AND CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 778 words


Immigrant rights groups are praising a new effort to shorten the notoriously
long lines at the San Jose immigration office by requiring some customers to
mail in their paperwork.

Aiming to reduce traffic at its San Jose walk-up counters, the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service is now requiring anyone seeking permanent residency
to drop their forms into a mailbox or INS drop-box.

"We've had long lines in San Jose, so it makes sense to do this," said INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, adding that lines have dropped by almost half.

The new system -- used in about half the INS offices nationwide -- has drawbacks
for immigrants seeking residency.

They will not be able to talk with INS employees while their forms are being
reviewed. And they will have to wait a few weeks to get their work permits.

But those who work with immigrants say they'll gladly accept those
inconveniences if it means their clients won't have to wait in line all day.

"We don't see it as a bad thing," said Tom Panelli, program director for
immigration and legal services at Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County. "You
don't get your work permit right away, but the advantage is you don't have to
stay in a long line."

Under the old system, immigrants usually could get their work permits on the
same day they submitted their residency papers.

Rummery said that under the new system the INS will review the applicants'
paperwork and then inform them through the mail when they can pick up their work
permit.

The office will make exceptions for those who say they need their work permits
the same day.

Doug Keegan, director of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project, said a big
concern for his clients has been making the trek to San Jose to submit paperwork
with no assurances they'll be seen by an INS employee. With the mail-in system,
he said, immigrants should have to visit the INS office only at an appointed
time to pick up their work permit.

Some disappointment

"I think there's probably a disappointment that they can't get their work permit
the same day," he said. "But I think if they're able to process it in two to
three weeks, they can live with that. And if they don't have to make the trip to
San Jose, all the better."

The INS began phasing in the system in August, allowing applicants to use the
mail or the walk-in counter. That choice will disappear in a few weeks.

So far, San Jose is the only office in the Bay Area to adopt the mail-in system.

Earlier this week, about 40 people were waiting for service at the INS office on
Monterey Road -- a small line for the San Jose office.

Some of them said they opposed the new mail-in policy. They feared their
important paperwork could get lost in transit.

But others said the new system would be a great improvement.

Rama Tafera knows all too well how frustrating the long waits can be. Since the
Ethiopia native first arrived in the Bay Area as an asylum-seeker in 1989, she
has visited the San Jose office dozens of times, often coming before dawn to
stand in the long lines.

This week, the 28-year-old machine operator hoped to talk to officials about her
plans to travel to the United Kingdom. She wanted to make sure her re-entry into
the United States would be smooth.

Tafera was asked to return the next day. INS officials said there were dozens of
people waiting ahead of her and that they wouldn't be able to assist her by the
end of the day.

"It would just make everything so much easier if everyone mailed in their
forms," said Tafera. "This is the U.S. The mail system is good. There should be
no problems."

Even for a bureaucratic agency, the San Jose office has been notorious for its
long lines and backlog of applications.

Line starts at dawn

Immigrants would line up at dawn sometimes to get a place in line, only to be
turned away midday after officials decided they could handle no more
applications.

At one point, the number of backlogged cases was 60,000.

Aware of the problems, the INS has been working in recent years to turn San Jose
into a model office.

The agency added workers, expanded hours, created a Web site, expanded community
outreach programs and set up a toll-free help line.

Rummery said that with the new mail-in system, the number of people waiting in
line has already dropped from about 450 per day to 250. Often, the office does
not have to turn anyone away.

"They're certainly making an effort to improve service in San Jose," said
Keegan, who works mostly with farmworkers. "It used to take two to three years
to process residency papers. They've cut that down to about a year. There's been
an improvement."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 6, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DISCRIMINATION ALLEGED IN FRAUD CASE;
IMMIGRATION SUSPECT'S LAWYER CITES ATTACKS

BYLINE: SETH HETTENA, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A state highway department engineer accused of immigration fraud is being
unfairly targeted in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks for his past association
with Algerian militants, his lawyer said Monday.

Zineddine Tirouda pleaded not guilty Monday to charges of conspiring to bring
his family from Algeria to the United States by fraud.

Tirouda, who federal prosecutors say was born in Algeria, is also accused of
falsely stating on immigration documents that he was born in Meridian, Miss.

Tirouda was first accused of immigration violations last year. A superseding
indictment filed Friday added conspiracy charges and named Tirouda's brother,
wife and parents as defendants.

Tirouda, 37, declined to speak with reporters after the hearing. He remains free
on bond and federal authorities do not consider him a flight risk, said U.S.
District Judge Irma Gonzalez.

The FBI is no longer interested in Tirouda, and the case is strictly an
immigration matter, said Steve Saville, a spokesman for the California
Department of Transportation in San Diego, where Tirouda works in traffic
operations.

Saville said Caltrans reviewed his employment records and decided Tirouda meets
all requirements to remain employed. The Paris-educated engineer twice applied
for U.S. political asylum, according to court documents.

He said he could not return to Algeria, because he had joined the Algerian
Brotherhood, a student branch of the Islamic Salvation Front, according to his
lawyer, Kenneth Luis Chapman.

The Islamic Salvation Front was banned by the Algerian government in 1992 after
the army canceled legislative elections the group was poised to win. The move
triggered an Islamic insurgency that has left more than 100,000 people dead.

Tirouda also lived in the same complex as Omar Al-Bayoumi, a man who has drawn
scrutiny from investigators for his alleged ties to two Sept. 11 hijackers who
lived in San Diego last year, authorities said.

Chapman said Tirouda had no link to the attacks, saying, "It was as much of a
shock to Mr. Tirouda as it was to anyone else in America."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 7, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT CRITICIZES INS FOR LACK OF FOLLOW-UP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Immigration officials do little to track down foreigners with criminal histories
who skip required follow-up interviews after entering the United States,
government auditors disclosed Tuesday.

The internal report faulted Immigration and Naturalization Service officials for
failing to locate questionable foreigners who skipped the interviews.

"We found that the INS took little or no follow-up action on the no-shows,"
which "created an environment where individuals who do not appear for their
inspection do so with virtual impunity," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 15, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAJOR MAKEOVER IS PLANNED FOR INS;
ENFORCEMENT AND SERVICES WILL GET SEPARATE BUREAUS

BYLINE: KEVIN MURPHY AND LENNY SAVINO, Mercury News Washington, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a major reshaping of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service on Wednesday, creating separate bureaus for law
enforcement and immigrant services.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks exposed widespread problems with the INS's
ability to track immigrants, including those who carried out the attacks on the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 underscored in the most painful way for
Americans that we need better control over individuals coming to our shores from
other nations," Ashcroft said Wednesday. "We remain a nation committed to
welcoming America's friends from abroad, but we have a new determination not to
see our welcome abused by America's enemies."

Of 19 hijackers identified in the Sept. 11 attacks, 13 had entered the United
States legally. There are no entry records for the other six.

Ashcroft said the INS, whose performance has long been criticized by Congress
and immigration lawyers, lacks "clear lines of authority." He promised lawmakers
more details on the proposal today during a House Judiciary subcommittee
meeting.

The main change is a new Bureau of Immigration Enforcement to oversee
intelligence, investigations and illegal immigrants. Another INS division, the
Bureau of Immigration Services, will help legal immigrants navigate rules, laws,
applications, forms and programs.

"The Immigration and Naturalization Service has struggled to perform two
often-competing missions," Ashcroft said.

How the reorganization will play out in local INS offices was not clear
Wednesday. But INS official Bill Strassberger predicted that it would speed
processing of documents and help shorten long lines at local offices.

Observers say the plan can only help local offices, which were often torn
between enforcement and customer service.

"They have to have separation," said Judy Golub, press officer for the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. "Right now you have mixed functions."

The restructuring will start immediately and be completed in about two years.
Legislation is not necessary, although Ashcroft promised that the Justice
Department "will be working with the Congress" on the changes.

Sen. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., chair of the House Judiciary Committee, said
the restructuring is inadequate.

"Quite simply, it does not go far enough for the rescue mission that is needed
-- both on the enforcement side and immigration services side," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Michael Bazeley contributed to thisreport.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ashcroft

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 18, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. LEADERS LOOKING TO IMMIGRATION REFORM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 117 words

DATELINE: MEXICO


Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle and House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt
said Saturday that they would forge ahead with immigration reform early next
year, including some kind of legal residency for Mexican migrants already living
in the United States.

Such reforms "are very consistent with fighting against terrorism," Gephardt,
D-Mo., told a news conference after meeting with President Vicente Fox during
the congressmen's three-day trip to Mexico.

Daschle said discussion on the reforms could be held during the next
congressional session early next year. He said legalization would not be
equivalent to a broad amnesty, and would require a background check and
investigation.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 21, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REFORM ON HOLD, U.S. SAYS;
TERRORISM CONCERNS DELAY U.S.-MEXICO PACT

BYLINE: GEORGE GEDDA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A comprehensive immigration agreement between Mexico and the United States will
have to be deferred because of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Bush
administration officials said Tuesday.

The officials, asking not to be identified, said they notified a visiting
Mexican delegation that security concerns would have to take a higher priority
in cross-border relations. They said the Mexicans understood and accepted the
U.S. decision.

Mexican President Vicente Fox has been a harsh critic of the current system, in
which Mexican migrants who come to the United States are unable to escape their
illegal status.

President Bush seemed to agree. During Fox's Sept. 5 visit, he and Bush
committed themselves to an approach that respects "the human dignity of all
migrants," regardless of their legal status.

But the U.S. officials said too many members of Congress believe that any
measure that legalizes undocumented immigrants would increase U.S. vulnerability
to a terrorist attack.

Since Sept. 11, the administration has been making it more difficult for
foreigners to enter the country. For Mexicans, this has meant more stringent
searches at border crossings.

Visa processes for young men from Arab and Muslim nations have also been delayed
to give U.S. officials more time to search for evidence of terrorist activities.

Immigration reform has been a high priority for Fox since he took office a year
ago. When he met with Bush, Fox challenged him to reach an agreement by the end
of the year.

Bush did not embrace the timetable but agreed that a legalization process --
short of blanket amnesty -- was called for, given the contributions Mexican
workers have made to the U.S. economy.

The U.S. and Mexican delegations met for several hours Tuesday at the State
Department.

Another meeting will probably be held sometime in January. The officials said
the U.S. side wants to keep options open in case political conditions change.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 24, 2001 Saturday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

SCANDAL FADES FROM NEWS;
GIRL'S DEATH LED TO SEX, IMMIGRATION CHARGES AGAINST BERKELEY LANDLORD
TODAY MARKS THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE INCIDENT THAT UNRAVELED THE SCHEME OF
A WEALTHY FAMILY FROM INDIA.

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 837 words


Two years after one of Berkeley's wealthiest landlords was arrested for
masterminding a scheme to bring dozens of Indian immigrants to the Bay Area for
sex and cheap labor, the Lakireddy Bali Reddy scandal is a fading memory.

A trickle of reporters -- instead of media swarms -- now attend Reddy court
hearings. The South Asian women's rights groups that rallied against sexual and
labor exploitation are too busy responding to hate crimes stemming from the
attacks of Sept. 11.

Only a few Berkeley activists continue to circulate e-mails and fliers
criticizing the Reddys. They complain that, at least materially, life for Reddy
and four relatives charged in the conspiracy hasn't changed drastically --
despite prison terms and criminal charges.

Justice has been fleeting, they say.

While Reddy was sentenced in June to eight years in prison and forced to pay $2
million to four girls with whom he had illegal sex, his 1,000 real estate
properties and two restaurants are still worth at least $100 million. His two
sons, charged with 21 counts of witness tampering, traveling with minors for
sex, and immigration fraud, are free on bond. They continue to earn a living in
the family businesses while awaiting trial. Reddy's brother and sister-in-law,
charged with one count each of immigration fraud, are building a
multimillion-dollar home. They received court permission in the summer to travel
to Honolulu.

Meanwhile, six young women the Reddy family brought over from India for sex are
hidden within the federal witness protection program. "The victims are still
recovering," said Neelam Naidu, office coordinator for Narika, a South Asian
anti-domestic violence organization. "They received a lot of intensive therapy.
But it's always something that's there. There was a lot of trauma."

Today marks the second anniversary of a death that unraveled the Reddy family
immigration scheme.

Chanti Pratipatti, 17, suffocated from carbon monoxide poisoning in a jammed-up
vent in an apartment owned by Reddy. She and her sister, who survived, were
brought to Silicon Valley along with dozens of others to wait tables and clean
offices.

And it was Chanti's sister's statements to investigators, as well as charges
from other immigrants, that put Reddy behind bars.

Doing 'just fine'

So far, the 64-year-old Reddy is said by his younger brother do be doing "just
fine" at Lompoc federal prison. And when Reddy gets out of prison, he'll
probably move back to his hometown of Andhra Pradesh, India.

In a few months, Jayaprakash Reddy and his wife, Annapurna Reddy, probably will
be sentenced to prison for no more than a year for their roles in the 15-year
immigration plot. While awaiting sentencing, he is building his family an
8,000-square-foot, three-story home in the Berkeley hills above the Claremont
Hotel.

Jayaprakash Reddy said he is relieved the public has largely forgottenabout the
case. He attributed the drop in the family's construction, restaurant and real
estate businesses to the overall slowed economy -- not the Reddy reputation. "No
one's said boo about it. People forget."

Some refuse to eat in the Reddy restaurant, Pasand Madras Cuisine, on Shattuck
Avenue.

"I'm not going to finance that kind of thing," said Ariel Cohen, 14, of
Berkeley, as she stood near the restaurant with friends. "What they did was
horrible."

Still, the restaurant and lounge were busy on a recent Friday evening -- as they
are most nights. The days of official boycotting are over.

Bobby Richardson of Berkeley, a receptionist for a real estate company, was
enjoying a drink there with friends and co-workers.

"Yeah, I know what the Reddys did," he said. "And we think they should get their
up and coming. A couple of guys stopped coming here, but me? I don't mind having
a beer here. I've been coming here for years."

Keeping quiet

Vijay Lakireddy, who still runs Pasand with his brother, Prasad, told the
Mercury News he would love to tell his side of the story but was advised by his
lawyer to remain silent. In past conversations, Reddy relatives said they
believed they were giving impoverished Indian immigrants a better life -- even
if they weren't paid minimum wage -- in the United States.

Over time, and overshadowed by the terrorist attacks, the majority of vocal
criticism has died down.

The largest of the Reddy critics, Alliance of South Asians Taking Action, isn't
planning a vigil this year for Chanti, as it did last winter.

"We're still thinking about it, but right now we're focusing all our attention
on Sept. 11 and focusing on hate crimes within the South Asian community," said
Arthi Varma, the group's lead spokeswoman. "I'm disappointed, though. It's not
how it used to be. There's a lot left not addressed."

There will be a smaller memorial event organized by Narika, which means "For
Women" in Sanskrit. The public is invited to view a picture of a dove drawn in
Chanti's honor, which will be posted in front of Pasand restaurant until Monday.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also Ran: page 1B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy
Sentenced in June to eight years in prison and forced to pay $2 million to
victims.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 30, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SPECIAL VISA A REWARD FOR INFORMANTS

BYLINE: CASSIO FURTADO, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 645 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Foreigners who help catch terrorists could be put on a fast track to U.S.
citizenship, Attorney General John Ashcroft promised Thursday. Even illegal
immigrants, he said, could avoid deportation through tips to federal
investigators about Al-Qaida or other terrorists.

"We're asking all non-U.S. citizens to come forward," Ashcroft said at a Justice
Department briefing to publicize the initiative. "People who have the courage to
make the right choice deserve to be welcomed as guests into our country and
perhaps to one day become fellow citizens."

Ashcroft's announcement comes as some of the Bush administration's
anti-terrorism tactics are stirring intense debate on Capitol Hill and among
lawyers and immigrant organizations.

Hundreds of immigrants in the United States have been detained in the weeks
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which the government attributed to Osama
bin Laden and his Al-Qaida terrorist network. The administration has also
proposed trying suspected terrorists in closed military tribunals instead of
open civilian courts. Some civil libertarians have denounced those tactics as
unwarranted violations of American legal traditions.

Many immigration lawyers praised Ashcroft's offer of accelerated citizenship for
foreigners who cooperate with the war on terrorism, seeing it as a carrot that
promotes cooperation, unlike detention and threats of imprisonment.

"It's a tool the government can and should use under the right circumstances,"
said Cleveland immigration lawyer David W. Leopold, who represents 11 Israelis
arrested for immigration violations in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

President Bush last month signed an amendment to the Immigration and Nationality
Act, renewing the so-called S visa, which permits favorable immigration
treatment for foreigners who cooperate with U.S. law enforcement. Ashcroft
dubbed the initiative, begun in 1994, the "Responsible Cooperators Program."

Immigration workers often call it the "snitch visa."

Ashcroft said the program might be especially encouraging to foreign informants
or foreigners in the United States who are reluctant to come forward because of
their irregular immigration status.

"Terrorism rarely goes entirely unnoticed," he said, "and non-citizens are often
ideally suited to observe the precursors to, or early stages of, terrorist
activity" because of their cultural backgrounds and language fluency.

Ashcroft offered a crisp "no" when asked if the visa-incentive program reflected
a sign of desperation regarding the pace of the terrorism investigation.

"This underscores the fact that we want to do everything possible to prevent
further loss of American life as a result of terrorism," he said. "And we are
seeking every avenue."

White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, seconding Ashcroft's appeal, urged
immigrants to "enjoy the freedom of America as they play a role in helping
protect themselves and their fellow citizens -- and other citizens in this
country -- from terror."

S visas permit their holders to remain in the United States for three years.
They can lead to permanent residency and, possibly, to U.S. citizenship. The S
visa, Ashcroft noted, "may cost us nothing, but it is priceless to the
recipient."

The S visa program is limited to 50 counterterrorism and 200 crime-stopper
recipients a year. Under the law, those who earn the visas must be determined by
the government to have provided "crucial information about a criminal or
terrorist investigation."

To gain permanent residency, foreign informants must be found to have made a
"substantial contribution to the success of an investigation," and be "placed in
danger as a result of having provided such information."

Foreigners interested in the program, if already in the United States, should
contact the nearest FBI office, Ashcroft said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS
Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Attorney General Ashcroft said even illegal immigrants could avoid
deportation through tips to investigators about terrorists.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 1, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESS APPROVES MORE MONEY FOR INS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Maligned by many, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is still getting a
big spending increase.

The $5.6 billion approved by lawmakers is 18 percent more than last year's INS
budget and comes even as Congress considers plans to remake the agency.

Rep. Frank Wolf, chair of the House Appropriations subcommittee that drafted the
budget, said the times demand more for immigration control.

"We have a new administration, we have a new commissioner, and we have a new set
of circumstances since Sept. 11," Wolf said. "I thought it was important, as did
other members of the committee, to give them the resources so they could do the
job."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 13, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIDEAST STUDENT-VISA VIOLATORS TARGETED IN IMMIGRATION SWEEP

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 352 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Immigration authorities arrested 10 people in the San Diego area Wednesday in a
first-of-its-kind crackdown on Middle Eastern students suspected of violating
the terms of their visas by not being in school.

None of those arrested is suspected of involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks,
authorities said.

Lauren Mack, a news officer for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
about 50 people were being sought in San Diego area.

The crackdown is believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, Mack said.
It is part of the agency's attempt to better track foreign students after it was
revealed that one of the Sept. 11 terrorists, Saudi native Hani Hanjour, had
entered the country on a student visa to study English at Holy Names College in
Oakland, but never showed up there.

Authorities began compiling a database of the nearly 600,000 foreign students at
U.S. colleges and universities after the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. But
that effort languished amid opposition from school officials who believed it
would hurt recruitment and be seen as intrusive.

In recent weeks, INS officials in San Diego discussed the issue with
representatives of about 35 schools, including the University of California-San
Diego. They checked the records of students from certain nations under
government scrutiny.

Agents sought Wednesday to interview San Diego-area students born in Iran, Iraq,
Sudan, Pakistan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and Yemen. About 90 percent of
the students listed in INS records as being at local education institutions were
enrolled. About 50 were not.

Agents began the crackdown at 5 a.m., visiting more than a dozen homes in San
Diego County. Mack said they arrested 10 men and women, including the brother of
one student.

Muslim leaders condemned the roundup as discriminatory.

"This type of activity, people defaulting on their visas, is not particular to
the Arab community," said Mohammed Nasser, the director of the San Diego chapter
of the Muslim-American Society. "Many, many people come here from across the
world looking for opportunity."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 16, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS ARRESTS IRAQI NATIVE IN SWEEP;
SAN DIEGO MAN WITH LAPSED STUDENT VISA PLEADS NOT GUILTY TO FRAUD, WEAPONS
CHARGE

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 560 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A native of Iraq who was arrested in a first-of-its-kind sweep of foreign
students who overstayed their visas was charged Friday with immigration fraud
and illegal gun possession.

Maher Hazim Azziz later pleaded not guilty to the two counts at an arraignment
before U.S. Magistrate Judge John Houston.

Azziz, who entered the United States from Canada to attend flight school in the
San Diego area, was caught with two handguns and counterfeit immigration
documents when federal agents came to interview him early Wednesday morning.

Authorities said Azziz, 38, is not a suspect in the Sept. 11 attacks but he
overstayed his student visa and, as an illegal resident, is barred by federal
law from possessing firearms.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service agents who interviewed him at his
home also found a fraudulent legal resident alien card and a forged Social
Security card that he used to get a job at a plumbing warehouse after he left
the flight school, according to court documents.

Jim Kealy, a supervisor at Sun Plumbing in the San Diego suburb of El Cajon,
said Azziz has worked there for about 18 months and has been a conscientious
employee.

"I would have nothing but positive things to say about him. He's a wonderful
guy," Kealy said. "He shows up every day and works hard. I wish I could have 10
more like him."

Azziz appears to have been caught up in the increased scrutiny of Middle
Easterners as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks.

The INS district that includes San Diego this week launched Operation
Verification. Agents interviewed people whose records showed they entered the
country on student visas but were no longer enrolled in classes.

The roundup, the first of its kind in the nation, targeted students from nine
countries in the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa that have either been
listed as state sponsors of terror or as the home countries of suspected
terrorists.

INS agents were seeking 50 students in the area but only located 10. One was
later cleared and released after he was able to prove that he was still in
school. Three have agreed to leave the country, and the others face hearings
before an immigration judge.

The INS has said it plans similar raids in other parts of the country and that
the list of targeted students will be expanded beyond those from Iran, Iraq,
Syria, Sudan, Pakistan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan and Yemen.

Azziz told authorities he entered the United States on June 30, 1997, from
Canada, where he holds citizenship. He planned to attend a flight school until
Nov. 15, 1997, but said he left the program because his wife became pregnant
with their first child.

During a search of his home, agents found a 9mm pistol, a .45-caliber handgun,
60 rounds of ammunition and a speed loader. He told authorities he bought the
weapons because he enjoyed target shooting, according to an affidavit filed in
federal court.

The weapons were bought at local stores. When he filled out the federally
required firearm transaction record, Azziz checked the "no" box next to the
question that asks if the buyer is an illegal alien in the United States,
according to the affidavit.

The firearms charge carries a maximum of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
The document fraud charge carries a maximum of five years in prison and a
$250,000 fine.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 18, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIALS DETAIN BOARD MEMBER OF GROUP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: MICHIGAN


A Muslim who serves on the board of a group suspected of funding terrorism has
been detained by federal immigration officials on a visa violation in the
Detroit area, his attorney said Monday.

Attorney Ashraf Nubani said his client, Rabih Haddad, was detained by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service on Friday, the same day federal agents
raided the offices of Global Relief Foundation of Bridgeview, Ill. Haddad, 41,
is on the group's board of trustees.

INS officials refused to comment on the case, and the FBI referred all questions
to the immigration agency. Nubani said INS officials told him Haddad, a Lebanese
native who lives in Ann Arbor, would be held without bond or a detention
hearing.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 20, 2001 Thursday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

UNION MAY SEEK RULING ON SCREENERS;
AIRPORT SECURITY LAW REQUIRES CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: AARON DAVIS, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 547 words


Firing airport workers for not being U.S. citizens -- discrimination or a matter
of national security?

It's the question legal experts, immigration officials and some lawmakers are
wrestling with as a 2002 deadline looms to fire thousands of airport checkpoint
screeners who don't meet a controversial requirement of the new aviation
security act.

Union leaders for hundreds of checkpoint screeners who plan to meet tonight at
San Francisco International Airport say they're preparing to ask a judge to make
the final call on the citizenship rule.

Critics say the citizenship rule unfairly discriminates against the luggage
screeners because workers with far more sensitive jobs -- like airline pilots
and military officers -- don't have to be citizens.

Supporters, on the other hand, say requiring workers to be American doesn't
amount to discrimination and the rule is necessary to begin building a dedicated
airport security workforce.

"There's no rational basis for it -- in the legal sense or otherwise," said
Rodel Rodis, chair of the National Federation of Filipino American Associations.
Seventy percent of the checkpoint screeners at San Franciscoairport are
Filipino. "What is it about being a U.S. citizen that will make one a more
efficient screener?"

Sen. Dianne Feinstein last week proposed legislation to speed the naturalization
of screeners who have lived in the United States for five years in hopes of
saving screeners' jobs, but union officials predict the proposal would help only
a fraction of the 7,000 or so slated to be fired nationwide.

"Everyone deserves a fair chance," said Daz Lamparas, spokesman for the Service
Employee's International Union Local 790, which represents screeners at San
Francisco Airport.

If screeners do make a federal discrimination case out of the citizenship
requirement, legal experts say a judge will have to decide if there's a rational
basis for the rule.

Thirty-two congressional representatives pleaded last month against the
citizenship clause in the new aviation security act. They signed a letter saying
the requirement discriminates because it is too broad. The new Transportation
Security Administration will take control of airport screening in February and
begin removing non-citizen screeners.

"Congress has never before endeavored to alter an entire job sector," the letter
said.

Analysis of more than a dozen Supreme Court employment and citizenship cases
over the past 25 years offers no clear precedent for a citizenship requirement
for airport screeners, experts said.

"It's difficult to tell how the court would rule," said Bill Gould, a Stanford
professor of employment discrimination law and former chair of the National
Labor Relations Board.

"Personally, I don't think a citizenship requirement goes beyond anything that's
already been established," Gould said. "But, if I was going to argue against it,
I would argue there's no rational basis when other non-citizens have more
sensitive jobs."

San Francisco Airport spokesman Mike McCarron said the irony of a citizenship
requirement hasn't escaped airport officials.

"It means the checkpoint screener will have to be a citizen, but the National
Guardsmen standing behind him with a rifle won't have to be," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 10, 2002 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH SEEKS TO RELAX FOOD-STAMP RESTRICTIONS;
PLAN WOULD REVERSE 1996 BAN ON IMMIGRANT ELIGIBILITY

BYLINE: JODI ENDA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 624 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush intends to ask Congress to restore food stamps to legal
immigrants who were banned from the program by welfare restrictions passed in
1996, an administration official said Wednesday.

Bush's proposal, which would loosen restrictions that then-President Clinton
signed into law five years ago, is backed by advocates for Latino immigrants, a
growing bloc of voters whom both Democrats and Republicans want to attract.

If enacted, the change could help California, one of a handful of states that in
recent years have enacted their own food program for legal immigrants.
California spends about $40 million on food stamps for 100,000 people.

"We would very much like to see this happen," said Bruce Wagstaff, speaking for
the state Department of Social Services. "We've been covering for the feds."

Supporters of the ban, most of them Republicans, argued in 1996 that federal
benefits drew immigrants to the United States and then discouraged their work
effort after they got to this country.

But today, with the country in a recession, and fighting a war on terrorism that
has targeted some immigrants, Bush is looking for ways to show his commitment to
immigration in general as well as to addressing domestic problems.

The president's plan, to be unveiled next month in his 2003 budget, would make
food stamps available to non-citizens once they have lived in the United States
for five years, according to Amy Call of the Office of Management and Budget.
Under the 1996 law, immigrants cannot receive food stamps unless they work in
the United States for a decade.

Other welfare programs, including basic benefits, Medicaid and children's health
care, also are available after five years of residency.

"The president feels that this proposal is important to not only make this
consistent with other federal welfare programs, but it will improve child
well-being by increasing food-stamp benefits to low-income households, most of
which include children," Call said.

Bush is disclosing in advance parts of his budget likely to win him political
support.

The food-stamp program would be phased in over three years, to reach an
estimated 363,000 by 2006, she said. It would add $2.1 billion over 10 years to
the $17 billion-a-year food-stamp program.

Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez, D-Ill., who has fought to restore the food-stamp benefit
to immigrants since 1996, said in a written statement that the president was
acting "not only compassionately, but wisely and logically."

"These are people who are in this country legally, who contribute to our economy
and our communities, and who pay billions of dollars in taxes to help finance
programs which they themselves are barred from using," Gutierrez said.

Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the federal government has detained
more than 1,100 non-citizens for questioning and has stepped up enforcement of
the immigration laws. Bush has insisted that he is waging war on terrorists, not
immigrants, and his food-stamp proposal can be cited to support that claim.

In general, food stamps are available to people with gross incomes up to 30
percent above the poverty level. A three-person household can qualify if its
gross income does not exceed $1,585 a month.

Non-citizens are generally ineligible for food stamps now, but there are some
exceptions based on a person's age, work history and date of entry into the
United States.

About 800,000 immigrants were removed from the food-stamp rolls in 1996,
according to the Agriculture Department, which runs the program. Two years
later, benefits were restored to about 175,000 immigrants, mostly children and
older people who were in the country before the legislation was signed.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin, Washington Bureau correspondent
James Kuhnhenn and the New York Times contributed to this report.
FOOD-STAMP PROPOSAL
Key facts about President Bush's impending proposal to offer food stamps to
legal immigrants.
PROPOSAL: Make food stamps available to legal immigrants after they have been
living in the United States for five years.
CURRENT LAW: Immigrants must work in the United States for 10 years to get food
stamps.
COST: Would add an estimated $2.1 billion over 10 years to the $17
billion-a-year food stamp program.
POLITICS: Could give Bush and Republicans a boost among Latino voters going into
this year's congressional elections.
Source: Mercury News Washington Bureau

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 14, 2002 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULING ALLOWS BAIL HEARING FOR IMMIGRANT CRIMINALS;
APPEALS COURT OVERTURNS LAW IN SAN JOSE MAN'S CASE THAT HAS KEPT THOUSANDS IN
JAIL WHILE THEY CONTEST THEIR DEPORTATION, A PROCESS THAT CAN TAKE THREE OR FOUR
YEARS.

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 700 words


Bay Area immigration attorneys are hailing a federal appeals court ruling
involving a San Jose man that they say restores constitutional rights to
immigrants waiting to be deported.

The 3-0 decision last week by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco
overturns a law that ordered all non-citizens to be held without bail if they
have committed a crime and are facing deportation.

The court said the law was unconstitutional because it violates the due process
rights of some immigrants.

"In terms of some immigrants and their families, it's huge," said Jorge
Rodriguez-Choi, a San Francisco immigration attorney. "They can't just say, . .
. 'He might be a flight risk; we'll detain him.' "

Since 1998, the federal government has refused to grant bail to immigrant
criminals awaiting deportation decisions. The law has kept thousands of
immigrants in jail while they contest their deportation, a process that can take
three or four years.

"It doesn't matter if they are a flight risk or a threat to the community. They
can't bond out, and they don't get a hearing," said Norton Tooby, an Oakland
attorney who represents immigrants. "It takes away from the judge any power to
release someone, even if there's no reason to keep them."

Immigration attorneys said the no-bail law is especially tough on immigrants who
have families or strong roots in the United States. And it can make life
difficult for attorneys, who often see their clients shipped off to far-flung
detention facilities in other cities or states.

Under the 9th Circuit Court's ruling, immigrants would not be guaranteed bail.
But like U.S. citizens, they would have the right to a bail hearing.

"I think it's significant," Tooby said. "There's quite a lot of people in this
situation."

Anti-immigration groups assailed the ruling, saying it will make the nation's
streets more dangerous.

"I think we have enough homegrown criminals without importing them and giving
them special privileges," said Barbara Coe, chairwoman of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform in Huntington Beach. "And as far as I'm
concerned, these are special privileges."

The decision involved the case of Hyung Joon Kim of San Jose. Kim is a Korean
citizen who came to the United States in 1984 at the age of 6 and now is a legal
permanent resident living with his parents.

Kim was convicted of burglary in 1996 and of petty theft the following year.
Immediately after Kim finished his three-year prison term, the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service arrested him and said it wanted to deport him.

Detention challenged

Kim challenged his detention three months later, saying the no-bail provision
violated the Constitution's due process clause.

U.S. District Judge Susan Y. Illston agreed with Kim and ordered a bail hearing.
The INS eventually released Kim on $5,000 bond without a hearing, but appealed
Illston's ruling.

In its decision, the appeals court was careful to draw distinctions between
illegal immigrants and those in the country legally. Its ruling applies only to
immigrants who are classified as legal permanent residents, which is one step
short of citizenship.

"We must remember that our 'nation's armor' includes our Constitution, the
central text of our civic faith," Judge William A. Fletcher wrote. "It is the
foundation of everything that makes our country's system of laws worth
defending. As a lawful permanent resident, Kim is entitled to the individualized
determination and fair procedures guaranteed by the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment."

Not a terrorist

Fletcher alluded to the government's current war on terrorism and a nationwide
sweep of immigrants that has resulted in thousands of detentions.

"No one contends that Kim is a terrorist," Fletcher wrote. "He was brought to
the U.S. from Korea when he was 6 years old and became a permanent resident
alien when he was 8. He committed rather ordinary crimes in the state of
California, and those crimes are the basis for the removal proceedings now
pending against him."

INS officials declined to comment on the decision. The government has about two
weeks to decide whether it will appeal.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 19, 2002 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE IMMIGRANTS WIN PERMANENT RESIDENCY

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 109 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The number of immigrants granted permanent legal residence in the United States
increased 30 percent between fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000, Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials said Friday.

The agency attributed the increase in legal immigrants -- from 646,568 to
849,807 -- to a reduction in its backlog of pending cases.

"It's no surprise, because they finally have people who are moving the
applications through the process," said Angela Kelley, deputy director of the
National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group. "We're not letting in more
people. These are people who should have gotten their residency a couple of
years ago."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 1, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CASE CHANGES SUGGESTED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 91 words


The Bush administration wants to reduce the number of judges hearing immigration
appeals and speed up resolution of cases, including 55,000 currently pending.

Critics contend the move will make appeals more difficult to win and will
curtail immigrants' civil liberties.

The Board of Immigration Appeals has 19 judges with four judgeships vacant. The
Justice Department wants the panel reduced to 11 over six months. Attorney
General John Ashcroft will decide who serves on the panel, and the changes can
be made without legislation.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 1, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CASE CHANGES SUGGESTED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 91 words


The Bush administration wants to reduce the number of judges hearing immigration
appeals and speed up resolution of cases, including 55,000 currently pending.

Critics contend the move will make appeals more difficult to win and will
curtail immigrants' civil liberties.

The Board of Immigration Appeals has 19 judges with four judgeships vacant. The
Justice Department wants the panel reduced to 11 over six months. Attorney
General John Ashcroft will decide who serves on the panel, and the changes can
be made without legislation.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 12, 2002 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION OFFICE SETS FORUM TODAY, WILL DISCUSS GENERAL PROCEDURES, POLICIES
AND LAW

BYLINE: Mercury news staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 110 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE


The San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will hold an
open forum from 10 a.m. to noon today in the community room at 1887 Monterey
Road in San Jose.

Questions about immigration law, procedure, policies and recent developments
will be addressed by the staff members. Information on individual cases will not
be available.

INS officers will offer information on recent performance statistics.
Participants will learn how long they should wait before following up on their
applications, and details about upcoming fee increases will be shared. Those
attending must have a current photo identification to enter the INS building.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Community Notebook
News From Around Your Neighborhood

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 17, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Reform of INS mired in disputes;
SEPT. 11 VISA FIASCO HAS ALL SIDES FED UP

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Much as the Enron scandal broke the back of opposition to campaign-finance
reform, the visa approvals mailed belatedly to two Sept. 11 hijackers may spur
an overhaul of the beleaguered Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"It's the straw that breaks the camel's back," said Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., reflecting the bipartisan outrage over the letters received by a
Florida flight school for dead hijackers Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi.

But although there is universal agreement that the INS needs to be revamped, or
even abolished, there is no consensus about exactly how to do it. And
immigration experts said last week that some of the changes being considered
might not even solve the deep problems of an agency paralyzed by its own
bureaucracy and mixed mandates from Congress and the White House.

"This is a huge ship that has been going in the wrong direction for a long
time," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington think tank that supports tighter immigration enforcement.
"It takes a while to turn it around."

INS officials did not return phone calls seeking comment.

The INS, which is charged with protecting the nation's borders and providing
services to immigrants, has long been criticized by both sides of the
immigration issue. Immigrant-rights advocates have denounced the long lines and
interminable processing delays, caused in large part by the agency's continued
inability to become computerized. Those who want to clamp down on immigration
have criticized the agency for alleged lax enforcement of the nation's borders
and immigration laws.

National security

But since Sept. 11, the anger about the INS's failings has reached new heights.
Of the 19 hijackers in those attacks, one came to the country on a student visa
but never attended class, while two others entered the country even though their
names were on terrorist watch lists.

No longer are the INS's failings only about immigrants being frustrated by long
delays or being separated from their families. Now its troubles have become
national security problems.

"This agency is completely inept. It's dangerously inept," said Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, a San Jose Democrat who serves on the House immigration subcommittee.

"This was really a very regrettable incident," she said of the visa-approval
letters. "Hopefully, there will be good that comes out of it."

The letters have already spurred action since they arrived at Huffman Aviation
in Venice, Fla., on Monday -- 13 months after the hijackers had completed the
flight-training course and six months to the day after the attacks that made
them infamous.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar reassigned four employees because of the snafu.
Attorney General John Ashcroft asked Congress for more power to fire negligent
civil servants. And House Judiciary Committee chair James Sensenbrenner
announced that he would hold a hearing on the visa letters next month and push
for legislation to abolish the INS and replace it with two agencies under a new
associate attorney general for immigration affairs. One agency would protect the
nation's borders, while the other would provide services to immigrants.

"This agency's performance must be addressed immediately," said Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis. "The security of the people of this country is at stake as long as
Congress and the administration fail to reform the INS."

White House plan

But Sensenbrenner is at odds with the White House, which prefers an internal
restructuring that would also split the agency's duties along the same lines.
Under the White House plan, however, both responsibilities would remain under
the INS commissioner.

"I named a good man to run it, Ziglar, and he's held accountable," Bush said at
his press conference Wednesday. "His responsibility is to reform the INS; let's
give him time to do so. He hasn't been there that long. But he now has got
another wake-up call."

Lofgren also opposes Sensenbrenner's plan, saying, "Then you'll just have two
dysfunctional agencies."

She and Feinstein said Ziglar is the person who needs to fix the agency's
problems. If he can't, Bush should replace him, they said. Feinstein says he
needs to do it within six months.

But some immigration experts said Congress and the White House -- under both
Republican and Democratic control -- have contributed to the INS's problems.
While complaining about the inefficiency of the INS, both parties have catered
to interest groups -- from businesses to Latinos -- that want to keep the INS
from strongly enforcing immigration laws.

"There's enough egg to go around for everybody's faces," said Rick Oltman of
Marin County, the Western field director for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which favors more restrictive laws. "They're all saying,
'How could it happen?' It could happen because Congress has been ignoring the
INS for decades."

Big funding increases

Members of Congress are quick to defend themselves. Sensenbrenner said Congress
has increased INS funding far more than most federal agencies -- 250 percent
during the past eight years -- but the INS has failed to enact needed changes.

Lofgren was particularly critical of the INS's failure to update its technology.
The agency's system still relies on paper files and a limited and outdated
computer system that uses the old Microsoft DOS operating system.

"It's all doable," Lofgren said. "The problem that Ziglar is facing is an agency
that is in the Dark Ages and an entrenched management bureaucracy that knows
it's going to be there after he's come and gone. He really needs to clean house
and we need to support his efforts to do that."

Sensenbrenner is particularly angry that the INS has failed to create a computer
system for monitoring the approximately 500,000 people in the country on student
visas. The move was mandated by Congress in 1996 after it was learned that one
of the terrorists in the first World Trade Center bombing in 1993 had entered
the country on a student visa.

"Had they done so they would have been able to track the visa applications of
Atta and the other hijackers, but they have delayed and delayed and delayed,"
Sensenbrenner said. "This fiasco is indicative of the enormous mismanagement of
the INS."

A chronology of the development of its Student and Exchange Visitor Information
System on the INS Web site (www.ins.usdoj.gov) shows how slowly things have
moved.

After Congress passed the law in September 1996, the INS created a task force
that started a pilot project in June 1997. The pilot project ran until October
1999, the final project was developed in 2000 and test training began this past
fall.

The USA Patriot Act, passed in fall in response to the September terrorist
attacks, provides $36.8 million for the computer system and mandates that it be
fully operational by Jan. 1, 2003. Congress is also partly responsible for the
delay, as it twice postponed the start of the system after strong opposition
from universities.

Pattern of problems

Universities also complained when Feinstein suggested a six-month moratorium on
student visas after the Sept. 11 attacks. She later relented, but co-sponsored
legislation to strengthen the student-visa program, including the creation of a
database that would allow the INS and the State Department to access law
enforcement and intelligence information about people applying for student
visas. The legislation has been stalled in the Senate.

That's emblematic of the difficulties in straightening out the INS.

"It's a large organization that has been given mixed messages for years and has
developed a dysfunctional corporate culture," Krikorian said. The controversy
over the visa letters last week "is definitely going to spur reform," he said.
"The question is, will the reform that is spurred have any effect?"

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@ krwashington.com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 26, 2002 Tuesday F1 EDITION

25 area airport workers arrested;
IMMIGRATION AGENTS SWEEP THROUGH S.F., S.J.

BYLINE: Aaron Davis Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 772 words


In the latest security crackdown at Bay Area airports, federal immigration
officials have arrested 25 workers with high-security clearance -- 17 at San
Francisco Airport and eight at San Jose.

The charges range from obtaining airport security badges with falsified Social
Security numbers and visas to lying on applications about major felony
convictions.

All the workers had unescorted access to planes and runways in their roles as
truck drivers, cargo or baggage handlers, janitors or security guards.

Many of the workers were from Latin America, and at least one was from the
Middle East, said Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) spokeswoman
Sharon Rummery. Two workers have already agreed to go back to their native
Mexico, and the rest face deportation hearings.

"This was a dangerous situation," Rummery said. "If someone had found out they
had a problem with immigration, they could have threatened the immigrants with
exposure to get them to do something they didn't want to against the airport."

More than 250 workers at 11 airports nationwide have been arrested on
immigration charges since Sept. 11. More than two dozen investigators from the
INS, Social Security Administration and Transportation Department have been
working since November to audit records at more than 100 companies that employ
15,000 workers with security clearance at the San Francisco and San Jose
airports.

Oakland International Airport hasn't been investigated, Rummery said.

Felons discovered

Seven of the immigrants facing deportation at San Francisco International
Airport were legal residents who had lied about felony convictions to obtain
employment, Rummery said. The INS investigation is separate from FBI background
checks being conducted at airports since Sept. 11.

Combined, the two operations have resulted in 55 employees in San Francisco
Airport and 11 in Mineta San Jose International Airport losing their
high-security clearance since last year.

"The latest batch is not a big number, but any number is too many," said San
Francisco Airport spokesman Ron Wilson. "We revoked their security clearance and
canceled them out of the system. They're done."

Even immigration advocates don't quarrel with the government's effort to shore
up security at the nation's airports by rooting out immigration violators.

"Our advice to immigrants working at the airports is to find another job if
their documentation isn't entirely complete," said Mark Silverman, policy
director for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "We don't
have a complaint with the INS for enforcing the laws. This is different than the
issue of immigrant airport screeners who may unfairly lose their jobs."

Silverman and other immigrant advocates say a new federal security rule
requiring all airport security screeners to be U.S. citizens is unfair, and they
are fighting to repeal the law.

Investigators started rounding up violators on Wednesday and made their final
arrest Monday morning.

So far, one worker from the San Jose airport has appeared in federal court.
Gerardo Garduno of San Jose is charged with falsifying an INS I-9 form,
knowingly possessing a false alien registration receipt card and Social Security
card, and falsely attesting to be a lawful permanent resident, court records
show.

Garduno had worked at the San Jose airport for a year at Integrated Airline
Services, a company that loads cargo and passenger bags. When he applied for the
job, Garduno allegedly used an alien registration card that belonged to a
45-year-old Mexican man who had become a U.S. citizen and a Social Security card
that belonged to a man from the Los Angeles suburb of Bellflower, court records
show. He could face up to 20 years in jail and $750,000 in fines. Efforts to
reach the company were unsuccessful.

Variation around U.S.

David Barnes, spokesman for the Transportation Department's Inspector General's
Office, said the number of immigration violations the INS finds at airports
often does not match up proportionally with the size of an airport.

For example, the INS only arrested five workers in February at the airport that
serves the most passengers -- Hartsfield Atlanta International. But 49 workers
were charged earlier this month at the airport in Charlotte, N.C.

The inconsistency may be because "the different U.S. attorney's offices have
different standards for conviction around the country," Barnes said. "What
someone may be deported for in one part of the country may not be the same as in
another part."

Contact Aaron Davis at acdavis@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7590.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 26, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

National News in Brief

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words


FLORIDA

Deportation sought for bomb plot suspect

Federal immigration officials have arrested and are seeking to deport a
Pakistani immigrant who they say plotted last spring to blow up electrical
facilities and other sites in South Florida, law enforcement officials said
Monday.

In spring 2001, an FBI informant reported that Imran Mandhai, 19, was trying to
organize bombings. The officials said that one target was a Florida Power &
Light plant near the Fort Lauderdale Airport.

NEW YORK

College Board mulls changes to SAT test

The College Board is considering major modifications to the SAT I, the nation's
most widely used college entrance exam, in an effort to counter criticism that
the test does not reflect what students learn in school.

College Board President Gaston Caperton said the proposed changes to the test
include adding a writing section and adding more advanced math.

TEXAS

Soon in Playboy: 'Women of Enron'

Playboy magazine is putting together a "Women of Enron" pictorial and is
inviting Enron employees past and present to send snapshots of themselves in
bikinis if they wish to pose.

"That's rich," said Deborah DeFforge, co-chairwoman of the Severed Enron
Employees Coalition. "We've had so much depressing news or stressful news, and
then to all of a sudden come up with something like that, it's kind of cute."

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Condit subpoenaed in grand jury probe

A grand jury investigating the disappearance of Chandra Levy has subpoenaed Rep.
Gary Condit to testify in early April, according to sources.

The D.C. Superior Court grand jury is looking into what happened to the missing
24-year-old former intern and also probing allegations of obstruction of justice
involving Condit, D-Modesto, and possibly others, the sources said.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 26, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

25 area airport workers arrested;
IMMIGRATION AGENTS SWEEP THROUGH S.F, S.J.

BYLINE: Aaron Davis Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words


In the latest security crackdown at Bay Area airports, federal immigration
officials have arrested 25 workers with high-security clearance -- 17 at San
Francisco Airport and eight at San Jose.

The charges range from obtaining airport security badges with falsified Social
Security numbers and visas to lying on applications about major felony
convictions.

All the workers had unescorted access to planes and runways in their roles as
truck drivers, cargo or baggage handlers, janitors or security guards.

Many of the workers were from Latin America, and at least one was from the
Middle East, said Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) spokeswoman
Sharon Rummery. Two workers have already agreed to go back to their native
Mexico, and the rest face deportation hearings.

"This was a dangerous situation," Rummery said. "If someone had found out they
had a problem with immigration, they could have threatened the immigrants with
exposure to get them to do something they didn't want to against the airport."

More than 250 workers at 11 airports nationwide have been arrested on
immigration charges since Sept. 11. More than two dozen investigators from the
INS, Social Security Administration and Transportation Department have been
working since November to audit records at more than 100 companies that employ
15,000 workers with security clearance at the San Francisco and San Jose
airports.

Oakland International Airport hasn't been investigated, Rummery said.

Seven of the immigrants facing deportation at San Francisco International
Airport were legal residents who had lied about felony convictions to obtain
employment, Rummery said.

The INS investigation is separate from FBI background checks being conducted at
airports since Sept. 11.

Combined, the two operations have resulted in 55 employees in San Francisco
Airport and 11 in Mineta San Jose International Airport losing their
high-security clearance since last year.

"The latest batch is not a big number, but any number is too many," said San
Francisco Airport spokesman Ron Wilson. "We revoked their security clearance and
canceled them out of the system. They're done."

Even immigration advocates don't quarrel with the government's effort to shore
up security at the nation's airports by rooting out immigration violators.

"Our advice to immigrants working at the airports is to find another job if
their documentation isn't entirely complete," said Mark Silverman, policy
director for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "We don't
have a complaint with the INS for enforcing the laws. This is different than the
issue of immigrant airport screeners who may unfairly lose their jobs."

Silverman and other immigrant advocates say a new federal security rule
requiring all airport security screeners to be U.S. citizens is unfair, and they
are fighting to repeal the law.

Investigators started rounding up violators Wednesday and made their final
arrest Monday morning.

So far, one worker from the San Jose airport has appeared in federal court.
Gerardo Garduno of San Jose is charged with falsifying an INS I-9 form,
knowingly possessing a false alien registration receipt card and Social Security
card, and falsely attesting to be a lawful permanent resident, court records
show.

Garduno had worked at the San Jose airport for a year at Integrated Airline
Services, a company that loads cargo and passenger bags. When he applied for the
job, Garduno allegedly used an alien registration card that belonged to a
45-year-old Mexican man who had become a U.S. citizen and a Social Security card
that belonged to a man from the Los Angeles suburb of Bellflower, court records
show.

He could face up to 20 years in jail and $750,000 in fines. Efforts to reach the
company were unsuccessful.

David Barnes, spokesman for the Transportation Department's Inspector General's
Office, said the number of immigration violations the INS finds at airports
often does not match up proportionally with the size of an airport.

For example, the INS only arrested five workers in February at the airport that
serves the most passengers -- Hartsfield Atlanta International. But 49 workers
were charged earlier this month at the airport in Charlotte, N.C.

The inconsistency may be because "the different U.S. attorney's offices have
different standards for conviction around the country," Barnes said. "What
someone may be deported for in one part of the country may not be the same as in
another part."

Contact Aaron Davis at acdavis@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7590.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 4, 2002 Thursday A1 EDITION

INS: No sign of Afghan orphans;
GOVERNMENT HASN'T FOUND ANY PROOF OF E-MAIL TALE OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN NEEDING
HOMES IN THE U.S.

BYLINE: Matthai Chakko Kuruvila Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 314 words


Local Afghan-Americans responded cautiously to an announcement on Wednesday by
federal immigration officials that there is no proof that hundreds of Afghan
women and orphans have been brought to the United States.

The government inquiry began after news reports that hundreds of Southern
California Afghans, prompted by e-mails, had come to meetings over the weekend
inquiring about being prospective adoptive parents.

"The whole story presented so far defies logic," Bill Strassberger, an
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman, said. "We've checked and can
find nothing that would verify claims" about Afghan women and orphans coming
into the United States.

Strassberger's comments echoed those of many local Afghans who work directly
with refugees and immigrants.

"This looked to be something impossible," said Ali Mardanzai, the executive
director of Afghan and International Refugee Support Services in Hayward.
"However, exceptions also could be possible because there are hundreds of
thousands of orphans in Afghanistan."

Mardanzai said that he has asked local elected officials to help him look into
the rumors.

An e-mail distributed weeks ago claimed that more than 500 women and orphaned
children, from newborns up to age 10, had been airlifted out of Afghanistan by
the U.S. government and brought to Southern California, where church
organizations were preparing to find them adoptive homes.

Even the organizers of last weekend's meetings in Northridge and Garden Grove
said that they didn't know whether the rumor had any truth to it.

Officials at NISWA, a Muslim social service agency in Los Angeles that helped
sponsor the meetings, said that they would nonetheless continue to investigate
the matter.

Mercury News wire services contributed to this report. Contact Matthai Chakko
Kuruvila at mkuruvila@sjmercury.com or (510)790-7316.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 10, 2002 Wednesday F1 EDITION

New INS rules add to logjam, critics say;
CURBS IMPOSE LIMITS ON FOREIGN TOURISTS

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 369 words


Tougher new immigration rules for foreign visitors and students are likely to
create added bureaucracy for overworked local INS offices, critics of the agency
said Tuesday.

But Bay Area immigration officials said most of the paperwork generated by the
rule changes will flow through the agency's regional service centers, not local
immigration offices.

"I don't think it will particularly affect this office," said Jack Bennett, San
Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service benefits director.

The new restrictions -- which make it difficult for tourist visa holders to
convert to student visas, and limit tourist visas to 30 days -- received a round
of criticism Tuesday, a day after the INS announced it. Even groups that have
been pushing for INS reforms said the new rules lack critical law enforcement
components.

"Obviously, the INS needs to address many of these procedural problems. Whether
this is the right answer or not, I don't know," said Lucas Guttentag, director
of the Immigrants' Rights Project for the American Civil Liberties Union in
Oakland.

"But it's going to create an enormous amount of paperwork for the agency that is
already overburdened by paperwork," he said.

Locally, Bennett said, the rule changes will most likely affect foreign
travelers who want to visit family members in the United States for an extended
period.

"When people come to the U.S., they spend money. My reaction to this is, we're
making people feel unwelcome," said Eileen Lee, 45, a San Jose resident who is
waiting for a final interview for her permanent resident visa. Lee first came
from Hong Kong on a tourist visa, then converted it to a student visa, then to a
work visa.

The new rule that prohibits conversion of a tourist visa to a student visa will
not affect all universities, said Ray Wallace, director of the Center for
International Students at California State University-Hayward.

"Stanford will not have a whole lot of those," Wallace said. "Nobody kind of
incidentally goes to Stanford after coming here on a tourist visa."

But some Bay Area colleges do pick up students that way, Wallace said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 10, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

New INS rules add paperwork to logjam, critics charge

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words


Tougher, new immigration rules for foreign visitors and students are likely to
create added bureaucracy for overworked local INS offices, critics of the agency
said Tuesday.

But Bay Area immigration officials said that most of the paperwork generated by
the rule changes will flow through the agency's regional service centers, not
local immigration offices.

"I don't think it will particularly affect this office," said Jack Bennett, San
Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service benefits director.

The new restrictions -- which make it difficult for tourist visa holders to
convert to student visas, and limit tourist visas to 30 days -- received a round
of criticism Tuesday, a day after the INS announced it. Even groups that have
been pushing for INS reforms said the new rules lack critical law enforcement
components.

"Obviously, the INS needs to address many of these procedural problems. Whether
this is the right answer or not, I don't know," said Lucas Guttentag, director
of the Immigrants' Rights Project for the American Civil Liberties Union in
Oakland.

"But it's going to create an enormous amount of paperwork for the agency that is
already overburdened by paperwork," he said.

Locally, Bennett said, the rule changes will most likely affect foreign
travelers who want to visit family members in the United States for an extended
period.

"When people come to the U.S., they spend money. My reaction to this is, we're
making people feel unwelcome," said Eileen Lee, 45, a San Jose resident who is
waiting for a final interview for her permanent resident visa. Lee first came
from Hong Kong on a tourist visa, then converted it to a student visa, then to a
work visa.

The new rule that prohibits conversion of a tourist visa to a student visa will
not affect all universities, said Ray Wallace, director of the Center for
International Students at California State University-Hayward.

"Stanford will not have a whole lot of those," Wallace said. "Nobody kind of
incidentally goes to Stanford after coming here on a tourist visa."

But some Bay Area colleges do pick up students that way, Wallace said. Moreover,
students from some countries intentionally enter the United States with the
easier-to-obtain tourist visas and then switch over to student visas.

But Wallace said he is puzzled how the government will enforce the new student
visa rules. Most California universities, he said, do not check the immigration
status of students before enrolling them.

"We haven't required anything because the mantra has been, we don't discriminate
because of immigration status," Wallace said.

Immigrants and their advocates are worried that the new regulations will create
a troublesome climate in the treatment of legal immigrants who are now in the
United States.

"It's difficult to argue this because on the face of it, it all sounds like a
positive step. For many people who are thinking about terrorism and national
security, it will sound reasonable," said Rand Quinn, executive director of
Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network, a San Jose group that
provides citizenship classes to immigrants.

But Quinn said the new rules could pose bureaucratic hardships for immigrants
going through the INS process.

Some Bay Area tourism industry experts said it's hard to tell how the new
immigration rules will affect the $18 billion tourism industry in the Bay Area.

Rick Webster, director of governmental affairs for the Tourism Industry
Association of America, said the changes send a negative message: "It's like
we're yanking the welcome mat out."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 10, 2002 Wednesday A1 EDITION

New INS rules add to logjam, critics charge;
RESTRICTIONS IMPOSE LIMITS ON FOREIGN TOURISTS, STUDENTS

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley and Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 551 words


Tougher new immigration rules for foreign visitors and students are likely to
create added bureaucracy for overworked local INS offices, critics of the agency
said Tuesday.

But Bay Area immigration officials said most of the paperwork generated by the
rule changes will flow through the agency's regional service centers, not local
immigration offices.

"I don't think it will particularly affect this office," said Jack Bennett, San
Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service benefits director.

The new restrictions -- which make it difficult for tourist visa holders to
convert to student visas, and limit tourist visas to 30 days -- received a round
of criticism Tuesday, a day after the INS announced it. Even groups that have
been pushing for INS reforms said the new rules lack critical law enforcement
components.

"Obviously, the INS needs to address many of these procedural problems. Whether
this is the right answer or not, I don't know," said Lucas Guttentag, director
of the Immigrants' Rights Project for the American Civil Liberties Union in
Oakland.

"But it's going to create an enormous amount of paperwork for the agency that is
already overburdened by paperwork," he said.

Locally, Bennett said, the rule changes will most likely affect foreign
travelers who want to visit family members in the United States for an extended
period.

"When people come to the U.S., they spend money. My reaction to this is, we're
making people feel unwelcome," said Eileen Lee, 45, a San Jose resident who is
waiting for a final interview for her permanent resident visa. Lee first came
from Hong Kong on a tourist visa, then converted it to a student visa, then to a
work visa.

Not all affected

"Stanford will not have a whole lot of those," Wallace said. "Nobody kind of
incidentally goes to Stanford after coming here on a tourist visa."

But some Bay Area colleges do pick up students that way, Wallace said. Moreover,
students from some countries intentionally enter the United States with the
easier-to-obtain tourist visas and then switch over to student visas.

Enforcement question

"We haven't required anything because the mantra has been, we don't discriminate
because of immigration status," Wallace said.

Immigrants and their advocates are worried that the new regulations will create
a troublesome climate in the treatment of legal immigrants who are now in the
United States.

"It's difficult to argue this because on the face of it, it all sounds like a
positive step. For many people who are thinking about terrorism and national
security, it will sound reasonable," said Rand Quinn, executive director of
Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network, a San Jose group that
provides citizenship classes to immigrants.

But Quinn said the new rules could pose bureaucratic hardships for immigrants
going through the INS process.

Some Bay Area tourism industry experts said it's hard to tell how the new
immigration rules will affect the $18 billion tourism industry in the Bay Area.

Rick Webster, director of governmental affairs for the Tourism Industry
Association of America, said the changes send a negative message: "It's like
we're yanking the welcome mat out."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 10, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

House committee OKs breaking INS in two

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


A House committee agreed Tuesday on terms for dismantling the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and replacing it with two separate agencies, moving
beyond Bush administration guidelines to overhaul the agency.

"The time for talk is over with," House Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., said Tuesday. "The time for action is at hand."

Sensenbrenner's committee plans to approve the new approach today with
legislation to dissect the INS into one agency to enforce immigration laws and
another to handle citizenship and immigration. The bureaus, which would remain
under the Justice Department, would report to an associate attorney general for
immigration.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar wants to divide the INS functions administratively
but keep the agency intact, reforming the agency without a new law, he told
House members Tuesday.

Committee members said they have heard too many ineffective INS overhaul plans
from different presidents and this time were ready to move forward with their
own. "We've been doing the administrative tango with the INS for a long time,"
said Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., the committee's ranking Democrat.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To read the restructuring bill, HR 3231, or Tuesday's testimony on the Web, go
to www.house.gov/judiciary/full.htm. To read the administration's plan, go to
www.ins.gov/graphics/aboutins/restruct/index.htm.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 18, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

New pilot detained in terror probe

BYLINE: Amy Goldstein Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 142 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. immigration officials have detained a Tanzanian citizen and flight-school
graduate whose name was listed on a computer printout discovered in a cave in
Afghanistan.

Issaya Nombo was charged with an immigration violation Monday after U.S.
intelligence officials reported their discovery to federal authorities, who
determined that Nombo was living in the United States on an expired student
visa, a federal law enforcement official said Wednesday.

Investigators have not determined whether Nombo has any connection to terrorism
or whether his name was simply contained on a printout of an aviation school Web
site home page, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

FBI agents and immigration officials are interviewing Nombo, 44, in North
Carolina, where he was detained for overstaying the limits of his visa.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 19, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

INS bars states from naming detainees

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The Justice Department has issued a directive that prohibits state and local
governments from releasing the names of detainees held in the investigation into
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

The order, signed Wednesday by James Ziglar, commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, is designed to circumvent a state judge's ruling last
month that the government must release the names of hundreds of detainees in New
Jersey jails while investigators seek to learn if they are terrorists. The
directive takes effect immediately.

In a separate action Thursday, a federal appeals court signaled that it is
likely to rule against the Justice Department as it seeks to close immigration
hearings involving a Lebanese activist in Detroit.

Thursday's decision by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals lifted a court
order that had allowed the government to withhold transcripts and documents from
previous closed hearings for the immigrant, Rabih Haddad, the co-founder of a
charitable organization that the government accuses of funneling money to
terrorists.

The unusual order to state and local governments about releasing detainees'
names appears to demonstrate the Justice Department's resolve to keep secret
information about the detainees despite a growing number of legal challenges
from civil-liberties groups.

Citing national security concerns, the government has refused to identify
hundreds of people taken into custody during the terror investigation or release
any information about their cases.

The great majority of the detainees, most of Arab and South Asian descent, have
been in five New Jersey county jails. The order said "it would make little sense
for the release of potentially sensitive information to be subject to the
vagaries of the laws of the various states within which those detainees are
housed and maintained."

Deborah Jacobs, executive director the American Civil Liberties Union's New
Jersey branch, said the Justice Department order "is basically an attempt to
make our state laws null and void. They're trying to codify their right to
arrest and detain people in secrecy. They have shown a complete disrespect for
the courts and the laws of New Jersey."

Despite the ruling, the Justice Department did not release the documents when
they were requested Thursday by the Washington Post. Charles Miller of the
Justice Department said officials were reviewing the court order and would
respond in "the near future."

The Justice Department faces five separate state and federal lawsuits that
challenge both the constitutionality of closed hearings in cases like Haddad's
-- which have been deemed of "special interest" to the attack investigation --
and the government's refusal to release detainees' names.

In addition, the Justice Department's Office of Inspector General is conducting
a "review" to determine whether authorities violated the civil rights of
detainees at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn and the Passaic
County Jail in Paterson, N.J.

Last month, a New Jersey judge, Arthur N. D'Italia, called secret detentions
"odious to a democratic society" and ruled that state law prohibited the
government from withholding the names. D'Italia expanded his ruling last week
and set a Monday deadline for the government to produce the names or seek a stay
from a higher court.

Because of government secrecy, it is difficult to determine how many people are
in detention. In February, the last time the Justice Department released
information, it said 327 people were in custody, but many have been released
since then and other people may have been arrested. All told, the government
said in November, nearly 1,200 people had been taken into custody in the
dragnet.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 29, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Proposed limit on visits draws immigrant protest;
PETITION DRIVE TAKES ON PLAN TO CHANGE TOURIST VISAS, SHORTEN STAY TO 30 DAYS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words


Bay Area immigrants are leading a nationwide campaign aimed to derail an INS
proposal to limit visitors' visas to 30 days.

Tens of thousands of people, many of them legal immigrants, have signed
petitions being circulated through the Internet. They say the change would pose
a hardship on their relatives who come to the United States on extended visits.

"We fully support new rules that would logically help the INS fight terrorism,"
said Pradeep Bhatia, a San Mateo investment banker who has collected 70,000
signatures from people opposed to the change. "However, we don't believe these
new proposals will help the INS curtail terrorism. A terrorist needs just one
day."

In response to harsh criticism regarding its handling of visas for terrorists
involved in the Sept. 11 attacks, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
earlier this month announced major changes to rules for foreign visitors and
students to prevent "abuse by aliens who seek to plan and execute acts of
terrorism."

The proposal would prohibit tourists from converting their paperwork to student
visas and would limit visitors with business visas, who can now stay in the
country up to one year, to six months.

But the change that has sparked the most controversy among immigrants is one
that limits tourist visas to 30 days, rather than the current six months.

The INS is expected to make a decision in May and could implement the plan
immediately.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the INS office in San Francisco, declined to
comment on the campaign drive.

"The American public is looking for more control, and I guess this is where this
comes from," Rummery said about the proposal.

But many of the legal immigrants who object to the proposed restrictions say the
new rules would make it more expensive and time-consuming for visiting relatives
who travel great distances.

Lalitha Rajagopalan, a product manager from Newark, spent about $6,000 to bring
her elderly parents to the Bay Area in December from Chennai, India, formerly
known as Madras. A six-month family visit makes that expense worthwhile, she
said, but 30 days does not.

"By the time I get over jet lag, I have a few weeks left in my visit. That's not
long enough," said R. Rajagopalan, Lalitha's 75-year-old father, who has a month
left on his six-month visit.

Rajagopalan is worried that her father, and mother, R. Rajalakshmi, 65, will be
limited to 30 days when they return next year. The regular visits are a
necessary family arrangement, Rajagopalan said, because she shares care of her
parents with her sister in Chennai.

Under the proposed changes, the INS officer who reviews the documents of a
foreign visitor decides whether to grant extensions beyond 30 days. This
procedure, Rajagopalan said, is arbitrary, and makes planning for her parents'
visits difficult.

"I don't know until they arrive whether they're here for 30 days or if they're
going to get extensions," she said.

More than 70,000 people from New York to California have signed Bhatia's
petition on www.PetitionOnline .com, asking the federal government to
reconsider. Signatures also are being collected in a separate effort at
www.ipetitions.com.

"It's national security that's most important to most of us, too, but this
proposal is not rational," said Vidya Iyer, 28, an auditor from North Andover,
Mass., who signed the petition.

Iyer, a native of Chennai, is expecting her first child this summer and she
planned to have her mother visit for six months to help her with the baby. The
new restrictions would shorten her mother's visit.

"She'd have to go back before I'm due," Iyer said.

In Washington, the INS proposal has received bipartisan criticism. Some say the
changes would create a massive paper and bureaucratic logjam in an agency that
is, by its own description, overwhelmed by paperwork.

"Now our fear is as soon as visitors arrive, their families are going to be
entangled in this endless maze of paperwork," said Bhatia, a legal immigrant
from New Delhi.

In trying to root out terrorists, Rajagopalan said, the INS is "policing the
wrong people."

"What really baffles me is the INS should be able to separate the self-sponsored
tourist from people like my parents who are visiting family and are sponsored by
family," she said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408-920-5794).

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 30, 2002 Tuesday F1 EDITION

Couple avoid prison time in sex, immigration case

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words


An East Bay couple won't spend time in prison for their role in bringing dozens
of illegal Indian immigrants to the Bay Area, where many worked for less than
minimum wage and were forced to have sex.

U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken on Monday sentenced Jayaprakash
Lakireddy to one year in a halfway house, probably in Oakland, where he will be
able to continue running his businesses.

If the Bureau of Prisons can't find room for him at a halfway house, he may be
sent to a camp-like institution in Atwater near Merced, where he would not be
able to continue his personal business interests. He was ordered to surrender
June 17.

Wilken sentenced Annapurna Lakireddy, a mother of three, to six months of home
detention, where she must be monitored electronically. She will be able to go
grocery shopping, attend religious events and doctor appointments, as well as
attend her 12-year-old daughter's sports and school activities.

Neither said anything before their sentencing.

The couple, who recently built a multimillion-dollar home in the Berkeley hills,
are the brother and sister-in-law of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, the family patriarch
convicted last summer of concocting the immigration fraud and sex scheme, which
began in the 1980s. At least seven young girls were victims of unlawful sex.

Both Lakireddys had pleaded guilty to a single count of immigration fraud.
Prosecutors had recommended a 14-month prison sentence for Jayaprakash Lakireddy
and had agreed with Annapurna Lakireddy's home detention sentence.

Authorities allege the Lakireddys knew about the full extent of Reddy's crimes
-- charges they deny.

Wilken also set a Jan. 6 trial date for the two remaining suspects in the case,
Reddy's younger sons, Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy. The sons are charged with a
variety of immigration and sex crimes, and indicated Monday they are willing to
discuss a plea bargain.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 30, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Couple avoid prison in sex, immigration case

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words


An East Bay couple won't spend time in prison for their role in bringing dozens
of illegal Indian immigrants to the Bay Area, where many worked for less than
minimum wage and were forced to have sex.

U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken on Monday sentenced Jayaprakash
Lakireddy to one year in a halfway house, probably in Oakland, where he will be
able to continue running his businesses.

If the Bureau of Prisons can't find room for him at a halfway house, he may be
sent to a camplike institution in Atwater near Merced where he would not be able
to continue his personal business interests. He was ordered to surrender on June
17.

Wilken sentenced Annapurna Lakireddy, the mother of three, to six months of home
detention, where she must be monitored electronically. She will be able to go
grocery shopping, attend religious events and doctor appointments, as well
attend her 12-year-old daughter's sports and school activities.

Neither said anything before their sentencing.

Both had pleaded guilty to a single count of immigration fraud. Prosecutors had
recommended a 14-month prison sentence for Jayaprakash Lakireddy and had agreed
with Annapurna Lakireddy's home detention sentence.

The couple, who recently built a multimillion-dollar home in the Berkeley hills,
are the brother and sister-in-law of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, the family patriarch
convicted last summer of concocting the immigration fraud and sex scheme, which
began in the 1980s. At least seven young girls were victims of unlawful sex.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy were charged with one count each of
immigration fraud, but authorities allege they knew about the full extent of
Reddy's crimes -- charges they deny.

Wilken also set a Jan. 6 trial date for the two remaining suspects in the case,
Reddy's younger sons, Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy. The sons are charged with a
variety of immigration and sex crimes, and indicated Monday they are willing to
discuss a plea bargain.

Monday's sentences -- no prison time and combined fines of $32,000 --
disappointed some Berkeley women's rights activists who have been following the
case since it broke nearly two years ago.

"I'm stunned with the fact that they don't consider the impact of their actions
on the lives of the girls they brought in," said Marcia Poole. "One of the girls
is dead, another has brain damage, and others are in psychotherapy. And they're
worried that Annapurna can make it to her children's games? I'm stunned also
that both were given an opportunity to apologize and neither said anything."

Ann Moorman, Annapurna Lakireddy's attorney, told the judge that her client is
"emotionally and physically mortified to be in this position," adding that
Lakireddy is "a great mother and a great person."

Speaking on Jayaprakash Lakireddy's behalf, attorney William Osterhoudt said the
case is the only blemish on what has otherwise been a praiseworthy life. He said
his client helped finance the restoration of a temple in India, where he also
paid for 50,000 poor villagers to eat on a recent holiday. Osterhoudt said
Lakireddy employs a dozen legal immigrants.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 30, 2002 Tuesday A1 EDITION

Couple avoid prison time in sex, immigration scheme

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words


An East Bay couple won't spend time in prison for their role in bringing dozens
of illegal Indian immigrants to the Bay Area, where many worked for less than
minimum wage and were forced to have sex.

U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken on Monday sentenced Jayaprakash
Lakireddy to one year in a halfway house, probably in Oakland, where he will be
able to continue running his businesses.

If the Bureau of Prisons can't find room for him at a halfway house, he may be
sent to a camplike institution in Atwater near Merced where he would not be able
to continue his personal business interests. He was ordered to surrender on June
17.

Wilken sentenced Annapurna Lakireddy, the mother of three, to six months of home
detention, where she must be monitored electronically. She will be able to go
grocery shopping, attend religious events and doctor appointments, and attend
her 12-year-old daughter's sports and school activities.

Neither said anything before their sentencing.

Both had pleaded guilty to a single count of immigration fraud. Prosecutors had
recommended a 14-month prison sentence for Jayaprakash Lakireddy and had agreed
with Annapurna Lakireddy's home detention sentence.

The couple, who recently built a multimillion-dollar home in the Berkeley hills,
are the brother and sister-in-law of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, the family patriarch
convicted last summer of concocting the immigration fraud and sex scheme, which
began in the 1980s. At least seven young girls were victims of unlawful sex.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy were charged with one count each of
immigration fraud, but authorities allege they knew about the full extent of
Reddy's crimes -- charges they deny.

Wilken also set a Jan. 6 trial date for the two remaining suspects in the case,
Reddy's younger sons, Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy. The sons are charged with a
variety of immigration and sex crimes, and indicated Monday they are willing to
discuss a plea bargain.

Monday's sentences -- no prison time and combined fines of $32,000 --
disappointed some Berkeley women's rights activists who have been following the
case since it broke nearly two years ago.

"I'm stunned with the fact that they don't consider the impact of their actions
on the lives of the girls they brought in," said Marcia Poole. "One of the girls
is dead, another has brain damage, and others are in psychotherapy. And they're
worried that Annapurna can make it to her children's games? I'm stunned also
that both were given an opportunity to apologize and neither said anything."

Ann Moorman, Annapurna Lakireddy's attorney, told the judge that her client is
"emotionally and physically mortified to be in this position," adding that
Lakireddy is "a great mother and a great person."

Speaking on Jayaprakash Lakireddy's behalf, attorney William Osterhoudt said the
case is the only blemish on what has otherwise been a praiseworthy life. He said
his client helped finance the restoration of a temple in India, where he also
paid for 50,000 poor villagers to eat on a recent holiday. Osterhoudt said
Lakireddy employs a dozen legal immigrants.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       May 30, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

U.S. judge rejects closed hearings for terrorism suspects;
RULING IS LATEST TO OPPOSE FEDERAL SECRECY IN TERROR PROBE

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 855 words


A federal judge in New Jersey dealt a significant blow Wednesday to the
government's efforts to hold terrorism suspects in secret, ruling
unconstitutional a directive closing immigration hearings deemed of "special
interest" to the investigation into the Sept. 11 attacks.

If upheld, the ruling would strike down one of the government's primary
investigative tools after the attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade Center
and possibly shed light on the fate of dozens, if not hundreds, of people who
have been arrested, detained or deported in secrecy.

The judge, John Bissell, described as "serious and legitimate" the government's
assertion that opening the hearings could compromise its ability to prevent
terrorism, but he said those concerns could be addressed on a case-by-case basis
and were outweighed by the right of the public and the press to view the
hearings.

"Without an injunction, the government could continue to bar the public and
press from deportation proceedings without any particularized showing of
justification," he wrote. "This presents a clear case of irreparable harm to a
right protected by the First Amendment."

The Justice Department is expected to appeal. "The highest priority of the
Department of Justice is to detect and prevent terrorism while preserving our
constitutional liberties," the department said in a statement. "We will continue
to defend the principle that the Constitution does not require immigration
proceedings to be conducted in a way that provides valuable information to
terrorist organizations or others who wish to harm Americans."

Wednesday's decision was the broadest of a series of recent rulings repudiating
the government's tactics in the terrorism probe. Since Sept. 11, authorities
have detained about 1,200 people, most of Arab and South Asian descent,
shielding their identities and holding most on immigration violations while
determining whether they were terrorists.

In March, a New Jersey superior court judge, calling secret detentions "odious
to democracy," ruled that state law prohibited the government from withholding
the names of hundreds of detainees held in New Jersey county jails. In April, a
federal judge in Detroit ruled that it was unconstitutional to close deportation
hearings involving a Lebanese activist. A Cincinnati appellate court later
forced the Justice Department to release transcripts of previous immigration
hearings involving the detainee, Rabih Haddad, that had been conducted in
secret.

That same month, a federal judge in Manhattan ruled that the Justice Department
had illegally used a "material witness" statute to detain a Jordanian college
student suspected of ties to the Sept. 11 hijackers.

The Justice Department is appealing each of those rulings.

"What we are seeing is that the federal courts are refusing to accept the
government's contention that after 9/11 the normal constitutional principles do
not apply," said Lee Gelernt, a senior attorney with the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Wednesday's decision grew out of a suit brought by New Jersey media
organizations that had been denied access to so-called "special interest"
hearings involving Sept. 11 detainees. The suit revolved around the legality of
what has come to be known as "the Creppy memo" -- a memo distributed to
immigration courts by Michael Creppy, the nation's chief immigration judge, 10
days after the attacks.

The memo outlined security measures for cases determined by the attorney general
to be of special interest to the investigation. The procedures prohibited the
cases from being listed on the court docket and prevented immigration judges
from sharing information about the proceedings outside the court. The hearings,
according to the memo, were to be closed -- "no visitors, no family, no press."

The government argued strenuously that opening the hearings to the public was
potentially harmful to the probe.

James Reynolds, chief of the Terrorism and Violent Crimes Section of the Justice
Department's Criminal Division, and Dale Watson, executive assistant director
for Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence of the FBI, provided declarations
stating that open hearings could provide sensitive intelligence to terrorists
and also stigmatize the detainees.

Bissell, however, supported the contention that the memo was ineffective because
it did not prevent the detainees or their representatives from discussing the
cases publicly. In addition, he ruled, the government still maintained the right
to close specific immigration hearings when sensitive intelligence information
might be revealed.

It remained unclear whether the government is now required to release
transcripts related to previous closed hearings.

Civil liberties advocates and immigration attorneys say they have no way of
knowing exactly how many people have been detained -- much less how many have
been subjected to "special interest" closed hearings.

Wednesday's ruling, barring a stay, potentially makes public an enormous amount
of information regarding who has been held, why, and how the cases were
resolved.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 15, 2002 Saturday F1 EDITION

INS tool to help spot visa forgeries;
COMPUTERS COMPARE ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words


Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar and State Department officials at San
Francisco International Airport on Friday showed off America's latest tool
against terrorism: computers that on command call up background information and
photographs of foreign visitors.

All of the more than 300 entry points into the United States are using the new
technology, which allows immigration inspectors to spot forged non-immigrant
visas by comparing them with computerized copies of the State Department
documents.

"We've got a clear and simple message to people trying to enter the U.S. with
fraudulent documents: You're going to be caught," Ziglar said. He and Wayne
Griffith, a deputy assistant secretary of state, demonstrated the technology
during a press conference.

San Francisco, Miami, and Newark, N.J., were the first airports to test the
system in December. In San Francisco, Ziglar said, Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents have used the program to spot two to three cases
of fraud a month. In Miami, he said, 61 fraudulent visas were discovered in five
months.

By February, the system had been installed at every port of entry. Ziglar said
he and Griffith waited to announce it to allow the INS to test it.

Almost half of the 500 million people who entered U.S. ports last year were
non-immigrants: students, temporary workers and tourists. Since 1995, the INS
and the State Department have shared information on immigrant visas, but that
arrangement has been expanded to include non-immigrants as part of the
nationwide effort to bolster border security after Sept. 11.

Between 7 million and 8 million non-immigrant visas are issued annually by
embassies and consulates around the world. Even as technology to make these
documents tamper-proof has improved, counterfeiters have sharpened their
techniques, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the INS.

Non-immigrant and visitor visas are particularly vulnerable to forgeries because
counterfeiters can expertly and easily alter data or photographs on real visas,
said Fred Ho, assistant area port director for San Francisco International
Airport.

But the new program allows INS agents to instantly access digital images of
original visas from the embassies that issued them.

"It's immediate. It's effective," said Jimmy Mollison Jr., an INS inspector in
San Francisco who demonstrated the system.

In the past, when INS inspectors suspected a forged visa, they called the
embassy where the visa was issued. Sometimes, inspectors waited days for a fax
of the original document.

Now it takes 10 to 30 seconds to view the original document from a State
Department database that is updated every five minutes.

"It should have been in place years ago," Ho said.

Ziglar and other immigration officials said they don't anticipate the new
program will cause line backups at airports because checks are only done when
INS inspectors suspect fraud.

"It has had little or no impact on the flow of the system," Ziglar said.

The INS faces a bigger challenge in the coming months: a plan to fingerprint
visa holders from countries on terrorist watch lists.

Airport officials around the Bay Area worry that fingerprinting could bog down
immigration and customs lines, and cause passengers to miss connecting flights.

"Fingerprinting takes time, in some cases a lot of time," said Peter Nardoza, an
assistant director for San Francisco Airport.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report. Contact Jessie
Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 15, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

INS gets tool to help spot forged visas

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words


Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar and State Department officials at San
Francisco International Airport on Friday showed off America's latest tool
against terrorism: computers that on command call up background information and
photographs of foreign visitors.

All of the more than 300 entry points into the United States are using the new
technology, which allows immigration inspectors to spot forged non-immigrant
visas by comparing them with computerized copies of the State Department
documents.

"We've got a clear and simple message to people trying to enter the U.S. with
fraudulent documents: You're going to be caught," Ziglar said. He and Wayne
Griffith, a deputy assistant secretary of state, demonstrated the technology
during a press conference.

San Francisco, Miami, and Newark, N.J., were the first airports to test the new
system in December. In San Francisco, Ziglar said, Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents have used the program to spot two to three cases
of fraud a month. In Miami, he said, 61 fraudulent visas were discovered in five
months.

By February, the system had been installed at every port of entry. Ziglar said
he and Griffith waited to announce it to allow the INS to test it.

Almost half of the 500 million people who entered U.S. ports last year were
non-immigrants: students, temporary workers and tourists. Since 1995, the INS
and the State Department have shared information on immigrant visas, but that
arrangement has been expanded to include non-immigrants as part of the
nationwide effort to bolster border security after Sept. 11.

Between 7 million and 8 million non-immigrant visas are issued annually by
embassies and consulates around the world. Even as technology to make these
documents tamper-proof has improved, counterfeiters have sharpened their
techniques, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the INS.

Non-immigrant and visitor visas are particularly vulnerable to forgeries because
counterfeiters can expertly and easily alter data or photographs on real visas,
said Fred Ho, assistant area port director for San Francisco International
Airport.

But the new program allows INS agents to instantly access digital images of
original visas from the embassies that issued them.

"It's immediate. It's effective," said Jimmy Mollison Jr., an INS inspector in
San Francisco who demonstrated the system.

In the past, when INS inspectors suspected a forged visa, they called the
embassy where the visa was issued. Sometimes, inspectors waited days for a fax
of the original document.

Now it takes 10 to 30 seconds to view the original document from a State
Department database that is updated every five minutes.

"It should have been in place years ago," Ho said.

Ziglar and other immigration officials said they don't anticipate the new
program will cause line backups at airports because checks are only done when
INS inspectors suspect fraud.

"It has had little or no impact on the flow of the system," Ziglar said.

The INS faces a bigger challenge in the coming months: a plan to fingerprint
visa holders from countries on terrorist watch lists.

Airport officials around the Bay Area worry that fingerprinting could bog down
immigration and customs lines, and cause passengers to miss connecting flights.

"Fingerprinting takes time, in some cases a lot of time," said Peter Nardoza, an
assistant director for San Francisco Airport.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report. Contact Jessie
Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 15, 2002 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Tool will help INS intercept non-immigrants with fake visas;
COMPUTERS CAN ACCESS WORLDWIDE DATABASE

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words


Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar and State Department officials at San
Francisco International Airport on Friday showed off America's latest tool
against terrorism: computers that on command call up background information and
photographs of foreign visitors.

All of the more than 300 entry points into the United States are using the new
technology, which allows immigration inspectors to spot forged non-immigrant
visas by comparing them with computerized copies of the State Department
documents.

"We've got a clear and simple message to people trying to enter the U.S. with
fraudulent documents: You're going to be caught," Ziglar said. He and Wayne
Griffith, a deputy assistant secretary of state, demonstrated the technology
during a press conference.

San Francisco, Miami, and Newark, N.J., were the first airports to test the new
system in December. In San Francisco, Ziglar said, Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents have used the program to spot two to three cases
of fraud a month. In Miami, he said, 61 fraudulent visas were discovered in five
months.

By February, the system had been installed at every port of entry. Ziglar said
he and Griffith waited to announce it to allow the INS to test it.

Almost half of the 500 million people who entered U.S. ports last year were
non-immigrants: students, temporary workers and tourists. Since 1995, the INS
and the State Department have shared information on immigrant visas, but that
arrangement has been expanded to include non-immigrants as part of the
nationwide effort to bolster border security after Sept. 11.

Between 7 million and 8 million non-immigrant visas are issued annually by
embassies and consulates around the world. Even as technology to make these
documents tamper-proof has improved, counterfeiters have sharpened their
techniques, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the INS.

Non-immigrant and visitor visas are particularly vulnerable to forgeries because
counterfeiters can expertly and easily alter data or photographs on real visas,
said Fred Ho, assistant area port director for San Francisco International
Airport.

But the new program allows INS agents to instantly access digital images of
original visas from the embassies that issued them.

"It's immediate. It's effective," said Jimmy Mollison Jr., an INS inspector in
San Francisco who demonstrated the system.

In the past, when INS inspectors suspected a forged visa, they called the
embassy where the visa was issued. Sometimes, inspectors waited days for a fax
of the original document.

Now it takes 10 to 30 seconds to view the original document from a State
Department database that is updated every five minutes.

"It should have been in place years ago," Ho said.

Ziglar and other immigration officials said they don't anticipate the new
program will cause line backups at airports because checks are only done when
INS inspectors suspect fraud.

"It has had little or no impact on the flow of the system," Ziglar said.

The INS faces a bigger challenge in the coming months: a plan to fingerprint
visa holders from countries on terrorist watch lists.

Airport officials around the Bay Area worry that fingerprinting could bog down
immigration and customs lines, and cause passengers to miss connecting flights.

"Fingerprinting takes time, in some cases a lot of time," said Peter Nardoza, an
assistant director for San Francisco Airport.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report. Contact Jessie
Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 15, 2002 Saturday A1 EDITION

INS tool to help spot visa forgeries

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words


Immigration Commissioner James Ziglar and State Department officials at San
Francisco International Airport on Friday showed off America's latest tool
against terrorism: computers that on command call up background information and
photographs of foreign visitors.

All of the more than 300 entry points into the United States are using the new
technology, which allows immigration inspectors to spot forged non-immigrant
visas by comparing them with computerized copies of the State Department
documents.

"We've got a clear and simple message to people trying to enter the U.S. with
fraudulent documents: You're going to be caught," Ziglar said. He and Wayne
Griffith, a deputy assistant secretary of state, demonstrated the technology
during a press conference.

San Francisco, Miami, and Newark, N.J., were the first airports to test the
system in December. In San Francisco, Ziglar said, Immigration and
Naturalization Service agents have used the program to spot two to three cases
of fraud a month. In Miami, he said, 61 fraudulent visas were discovered in five
months.

By February, the system had been installed at every port of entry. Ziglar said
he and Griffith waited to announce it to allow the INS to test it.

Almost half of the 500 million people who entered U.S. ports last year were
non-immigrants: students, temporary workers and tourists. Since 1995, the INS
and the State Department have shared information on immigrant visas, but that
arrangement has been expanded to include non-immigrants as part of the
nationwide effort to bolster border security after Sept. 11.

Between 7 million and 8 million non-immigrant visas are issued annually by
embassies and consulates around the world. Even as technology to make these
documents tamper-proof has improved, counterfeiters have sharpened their
techniques, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for the INS.

Non-immigrant and visitor visas are particularly vulnerable to forgeries because
counterfeiters can expertly and easily alter data or photographs on real visas,
said Fred Ho, assistant area port director for San Francisco International
Airport.

But the new program allows INS agents to instantly access digital images of
original visas from the embassies that issued them.

"It's immediate. It's effective," said Jimmy Mollison Jr., an INS inspector in
San Francisco who demonstrated the system.

In the past, when INS inspectors suspected a forged visa, they called the
embassy where the visa was issued. Sometimes, inspectors waited days for a fax
of the original document.

Now it takes 10 to 30 seconds to view the original document from a State
Department database that is updated every five minutes.

"It should have been in place years ago," Ho said.

Ziglar and other immigration officials said they don't anticipate the new
program will cause line backups at airports because checks are only done when
INS inspectors suspect fraud.

"It has had little or no impact on the flow of the system," Ziglar said.

The INS faces a bigger challenge in the coming months: a plan to fingerprint
visa holders from countries on terrorist watch lists.

Airport officials around the Bay Area worry that fingerprinting could bog down
immigration and customs lines, and cause passengers to miss connecting flights.

"Fingerprinting takes time, in some cases a lot of time," said Peter Nardoza, an
assistant director for San Francisco Airport.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report. Contact Jessie
Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 5, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

More authority set for consular IDs

BYLINE: Karen de Sa Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words


Come Tuesday, Claudia Lara and Enrique Camacho may feel more welcome in Santa
Clara County.

In a move that's part useful, part symbolic, county supervisors are expected to
recognize Mexican consular ID cards to allow thousands of undocumented Mexican
immigrants access to some county services.

"When you get to this country, you don't have an identity," said Camacho, a chef
who spent the night outside the Mexican Consulate in San Jose last week waiting
in line with Lara for a card.

For Lara, a psychologist working in San Jose as a caregiver for seniors, the
document will make her feel like somebody again. No ID to prove who she is means
"being aware you are nothing," she said.

San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Oakland and Los Angeles already recognize the
matricula consular as an official document for Mexican immigrants who have no
right to driver's licenses or green cards. Many banks accept the cards to open
accounts.

On Tuesday, Santa Clara County supervisors will decide whether to allow
undocumented immigrants to use the cards to get marriage licenses and library
books; to retrieve impounded cars or report crimes to the sheriff's department
without having to fear being deported.

Santa Clara County delivers services to all residents, no matter what their
immigration status; and by law, the county is not required to check a person's
status for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"We can't do anything about their immigration status, but in doing this small
thing, we are acknowledging that they exist," said Supervisor Blanca Alvarado,
who introduced the policy. "What we're proposing is so innocuous, and it will
make such a difference. From a human perspective, clearly, having a name and
having an identity is something that's needed."

Already, hundreds of South Bay residents gather in the chilly pre-dawn darkness
outside San Jose's Mexican Consulate each weekday morning, seeking the laminated
consular IDs stamped with an infra-red band and a copper-colored hologram for
extra security.

The cards, in lower-tech forms, have existed since 1870, but they take on new
meaning today. Mexicans in California have been recognized by President Vicente
Fox as "national heroes," and the billions of dollars they send home each month
are hailed as crucial to sustaining their homeland's economy. California is home
to about 2 million undocumented immigrants, according the Little Hoover
Commission, a bipartisan oversight group that studies California government.

But in places like Silicon Valley, the undocumented say they still struggle with
invisibility.

"We feel like corralled animals with nowhere to go. We walk in fear," said Jose
de Jesus Rios, a retired mechanic. The matricula is "a picture of ourselves that
shows our identity."

Sense of dignity

Matriculas do not change a person's immigration status and are not accepted by
federal or state agencies as a valid form of ID. But Alvarado said they afford
local workers, residents and taxpayers a sense of dignity, and they brighten
lives often lived in the shadows. Most of her colleagues on the board say they
agree.

At the San Jose consulate, which serves Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, San Benito and
Monterey counties, the cards have become increasingly popular since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks made identification vital for everything from catching a
flight to claiming mail.

Last year, the consulate issued more than 30,200 matriculas, up from 21,600 the
year before. By June of this year, 24,250 had already been issued to applicants
who bring a $29 registration fee, proof of residency and a birth certificate.

"It's a very good way to make life easier for the many, many Mexicans living in
this area," said Hugo Juarez, deputy consul general.

Concern from critics

Some argue that the cards make it too easy.

Carol Joyal, chairwoman of the Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley,
argues that the use of matriculas in business transactions violates banking
laws, because they don't require Social Security numbers. A growing number of
banks accept consular IDs -- including a Wells Fargo branch recruiting from a
fold-up card table in the parking lot of San Jose's Mexican Consulate.

"The banks require that we have all of this identification to have accounts, but
yet we're giving foreign nationals without ID a legal right to access services,"
Joyal said. "So we have broader concerns about that."

Latino advocates, however, argue the cards don't go far enough to protect
undocumented immigrants, who contribute millions to the state's economy. They
say California lawmakers should take the next step and allow undocumented
immigrants driver's licenses, an issue under debate.

Guadalupe Bueno of Watsonville left home at 4:30 a.m. to get her matricula card
in San Jose. She plans to use it to open a bank account and avoid high fees she
must pay to cash checks at liquor stores.

"They'll rob our money if it's not in the bank," Bueno said.

Miguel Aguilera, a Santa Cruz cook, said he needs a card to hand over at the
post office, where he gets asked for identification while mailing packages to
Mexico. Maria del Sagrario Ugarte just wants to feel safe.

Now, she said, "I'm afraid that all of a sudden on the street someone will come
up to me and ask me for ID."

Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sjmercury.com or (408) 295-3984.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 5, 2002 Monday PS1 EDITION

County reconsiders ID policy;
SANTA CLARA EXPECTED TO BEGIN RECOGNIZING MEXICAN MATRICULAS

BYLINE: Karen de Sa Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words


Come Tuesday, Claudia Lara and Enrique Camacho may feel more welcome in Santa
Clara County.

In a move that's part useful, part symbolic, county supervisors are expected to
recognize Mexican consular ID cards to allow thousands of undocumented Mexican
immigrants access to some county services.

"When you get to this country, you don't have an identity," said Camacho, a chef
who spent the night outside the Mexican Consulate in San Jose last week waiting
in line with Lara for a card.

For Lara, a psychologist working in San Jose as a caregiver for seniors, the
document will make her feel like somebody again. No ID to prove who she is means
"being aware you are nothing," she said.

San Francisco, Santa Cruz, Oakland and Los Angeles already recognize the
matricula consular as an official document for Mexican immigrants who have no
right to driver's licenses or green cards. Many banks accept the cards to open
accounts.

On Tuesday, Santa Clara County supervisors will decide whether to allow
undocumented immigrants to use the cards to get marriage licenses and library
books; to retrieve impounded cars or report crimes to the sheriff's department
without having to fear being deported.

Santa Clara County delivers services to all residents, no matter what their
immigration status; and by law, the county is not required to check a person's
status for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"We can't do anything about their immigration status, but in doing this small
thing, we are acknowledging that they exist," said Supervisor Blanca Alvarado,
who introduced the policy. "What we're proposing is so innocuous, and it will
make such a difference. From a human perspective, clearly, having a name and
having an identity is something that's needed."

Already, hundreds of South Bay residents gather in the chilly pre-dawn darkness
outside San Jose's Mexican Consulate each weekday morning, seeking the laminated
consular IDs stamped with an infra-red band and a copper-colored hologram for
extra security.

The cards, in lower-tech forms, have existed since 1870, but they take on new
meaning today. Mexicans in California have been recognized by President Vicente
Fox as "national heroes," and the billions of dollars they send home each month
are hailed as crucial to sustaining their homeland's economy. California is home
to about 2 million undocumented immigrants, according the Little Hoover
Commission, a bipartisan oversight group that studies California government.

But in places like Silicon Valley, the undocumented say they still struggle with
invisibility.

"We feel like corralled animals with nowhere to go. We walk in fear," said Jose
de Jesus Rios, a retired mechanic. The matricula is "a picture of ourselves that
shows our identity."

Matriculas do not change a person's immigration status and are not accepted by
federal or state agencies as a valid form of ID. But Alvarado said they afford
local workers, residents and taxpayers a sense of dignity, and they brighten
lives often lived in the shadows. Most of her colleagues on the board say they
agree.

At the San Jose consulate, which serves Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, San Benito and
Monterey counties, the cards have become increasingly popular since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks made identification vital for everything from catching a
flight to claiming mail.

Last year, the consulate issued more than 30,200 matriculas, up from 21,600 the
year before. By June of this year, 24,250 had already been issued to applicants
who bring a $29 registration fee, proof of residency and a birth certificate.

"It's a very good way to make life easier for the many, many Mexicans living in
this area," said Hugo Juarez, deputy consul general.

Some argue that the cards make it too easy.

Carol Joyal, chairwoman of the Immigration Reform Network of Silicon Valley,
argues that the use of matriculas in business transactions violates banking
laws, because they don't require Social Security numbers. A growing number of
banks accept consular IDs -- including a Wells Fargo branch recruiting from a
fold-up card table in the parking lot of San Jose's Mexican Consulate.

"The banks require that we have all of this identification to have accounts, but
yet we're giving foreign nationals without ID a legal right to access services,"
Joyal said. "So we have broader concerns about that."

Latino advocates, however, argue the cards don't go far enough to protect
undocumented immigrants, who contribute millions to the state's economy. They
say California lawmakers should take the next step and allow undocumented
immigrants driver's licenses, an issue under debate.

Guadalupe Bueno of Watsonville left home at 4:30 a.m. to get her matricula card
in San Jose. She plans to use it to open a bank account and avoid high fees she
must pay to cash checks at liquor stores.

"They'll rob our money if it's not in the bank," Bueno said.

Miguel Aguilera, a Santa Cruz cook, said he needs a card to hand over at the
post office, where he gets asked for identification while mailing packages to
Mexico. Maria del Sagrario Ugarte just wants to feel safe.

Now, she said, "I'm afraid that all of a sudden on the street someone will come
up to me and ask me for ID."

Contact Karen de Sa at (408) 295-3984 or kdesa@sjmercury.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 17, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

INS head will retire at the end of the year;
MANY CONCERNED ABOUT ZIGLAR'S REPLACEMENT

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 686 words


INS chief James Ziglar announced Friday that he will retire by the end of the
year, ending a short but tumultuous term that placed the troubled agency at the
center of a national debate on national security.

The news has many Bay Area immigrant advocates worried about the direction of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the impact the leadership void
could have at a critical juncture.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks created a new climate of scrutiny for immigrants
-- secret detentions and deportations, new background security checks -- and
Ziglar's departure has many advocates concerned about his replacement.

"It's a very difficult period for the agency, and we're all pretty concerned
what comes next," said Saad Ahmad, a San Jose immigration lawyer.

Congress is considering legislation that will merge the INS with the newly
created Department of Homeland Security, a change that is designed to tighten
immigration enforcement.

"Given both the structural and policy challenges confronting the agency, I'm
quite concerned about the type of person that Mr. Ashcroft will try to place in
this position," said Robert Rubin, legal director of the Lawyers Committee for
Civil Rights, a Bay Area non-profit immigrant rights group, referring to
Attorney General John Ashcroft.

President Bush appointed Ziglar to the post last August, and he will also
appoint his replacement. But since Sept. 11, Ashcroft has driven many of the
policy changes dealing with immigration, from limitations on visitors' stay in
the U.S. to tracking foreign students.

Ziglar arrived at an optimistic time when the U.S. was involved in negotiations
with Mexico on details of a guest worker program and legalization of
undocumented workers. An investment banker and lawyer, Ziglar was appointed to
reform and reorganize the bureaucratic morass of the INS.

"Although I could not have imagined the events of Sept. 11 and the dramatic
changes visited upon the Immigration and Naturalization Service, I have done my
best to continue making progress toward the goals of restructuring the agency
and reducing backlogs while responding to the call to arms in the war on
terrorism," Ziglar wrote in a one-page resignation letter to President Bush
dated Aug. 15.

Ziglar, who recently underwent back surgery, has offered to stay on as
commissioner until Congress finalizes plans to place the INS under the
Department of Homeland Security.

The INS came under fire after Sept. 11, when it was revealed that several of the
19 foreigners tied to the attacks had minor immigration violations, leading to a
number of rule changes that affect the lives of immigrants in the Bay Area and
the United States. Two of the hijackers received student visa approvals from the
INS -- six months after they died in the attacks.

One of the more controversial proposals is a plan by the U.S. Department of
Justice to transfer immigration enforcement to local police.

Immigration opponents and supporters of tough border controls said they will
push for a new commissioner who is well-versed and experienced in the arena of
enforcement.

"We need someone who can speak frankly to the American people about what is
required to ensure homeland security while reducing immigration to reasonable
levels," said Dan Stein, executive director of Federation for American
Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C.

"I'm sorry to see him go," said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. "He certainly
had his hands full but he did manage to understand the need for new technology
in the agency. There's a long way to go, but he's taken some steps."

Some immigration opponents have criticized Ziglar for not being forceful enough
in advocating for tougher immigration controls and enforcement, but immigrant
advocates view his departure as an opportunity for change.

"It's also an opportunity to really think about how to restructure the INS to
serve immigrants in the most effective way and secure borders," said Ivy Lee, an
immigration lawyer in San Francisco.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     August 21, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Change in law will help speed children's applications

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words


A new law that addresses the problem of "aging out" -- when children lose their
immigration status at 21 while their applications for permanent residency are
still being processed -- took effect Aug. 6.

According to the Child Status Protection Act, family-based green card
applications will be based on the applicant's age at the time the petition for
citizenship (I-130) was filed, not the date the case is decided. That means the
child of a citizen or permanent resident who was younger than 21 when an
application was filed will be considered as being younger than 21 throughout the
case.

Under the old law, when a parent who is a U.S. citizen sponsors a child younger
than 21 for a green card, the child could apply for a green card without being
subject to a backlog. But once the child turned 21, he or she was converted to a
new category that is backlogged several years.

The new law also applies to children of permanent residents. These children are
classified under a different category, which allows their applications to be
processed in less time.

There is also a solution for a problem that has affected immigrants from the
Philippines for years.

When these immigrants were naturalized, their dependents moved to a category
that should have resulted in shorter waits. But the wait got longer. These
immigrants were in effect being penalized for becoming citizens. The new law
provides a fix by allowing an adult child to decline to be transferred to the
category with longer waits.

The new law is retroactive and will apply to cases filed before Aug. 6, provided
a final determination on an adjustment of status or immigrant visa application
has not been made.

To opt out of the automatic conversion, write to the INS. If you have already
been moved to the new category, you can still petition to have that change
revoked.

Q I am now working here on an H-1 visa. My wife has just received her dependent
H-4 approval notice. We are planning to travel outside the United States. Is the
approval notice sufficient for re-entry into the United States?

A If your wife needs to have an H-4 visa stamp in her passport, she can go to a
U.S. consulate. Here are the documents she should take with her along with the
appropriate form, photos and fee: a copy of your H1-B visa package; a letter
from your employer stating that you are still employed there; a recent pay stub
and a copy of your marriage certificate.

Q I have been working here for nearly six years now. My H1-B visa is about to
expire. I have heard that I can leave the country for a year and then apply for
another H1-B visa. Is that true?

A Yes. Once you leave the United States for a year, you are eligible for six
more years of H1-B status.

subheadChange of address update Even though the Justice Department has not
determined the new change of address policy, you still need to send in your
address change to the INS (using form AR-11) -- and keep a proof of mailing
receipt. If you have moved several times, you should give your new and previous
addresses.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 22, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

U.S. routinely shreds data that might aid terror war

BYLINE: Ted Bridis Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 618 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Despite a post-Sept. 11 emphasis on sharing information, the government each
year deliberately shreds millions of unsuccessful immigration applications
containing personal details and photographs that some officials say could help
in the war against terrorism.

Many applicants are from countries the U.S. government considers sponsors or
harborers of terrorists, officials said.

Senior counterterrorism and law enforcement officials say they were unaware of
the State Department's practice and believe that the information should be
preserved for potential use in terrorism investigations. Immigration lawyers,
however, are worried about the privacy implications.

"All the people in homeland security should eventually have the capacity to sift
through these," said Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., chair of the House Judiciary
Committee's immigration subcommittee.

State Department officials say they have been using high-speed shredders in
Kentucky, which they call "Igor One" and "Igor Two," to destroy the records of
immigrants who fail to win entry to the United States after applying through a
special visa-lottery system.

Millions across the globe apply, but only about 50,000 are picked randomly each
year. Each one-page application includes the person's name, photograph, current
address and place of birth, as well as the same information and photographs for
all immediate family members. Winning applicants are asked further about the
dates and locations of any schools or jobs.

Wednesday, the State Department published new rules for the next lottery, and
winning visas would be awarded in October 2003. The lottery will be open to
immigrants from all nations except Canada, China, Colombia, the Dominican
Republic, El Salvador, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines,
South Korea, Vietnam and the United Kingdom.

Applications from the 50,000 winners each year are retained and checked against
lists of terror suspects and known criminals. The rest -- the overwhelming
majority -- are destroyed under the State Department's rules for the 1990-era
Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery.

Ed Dickens of the Bureau of Consular Affairs, which runs the program, said the
State Department would be willing to change its rules to share all the forms
with the FBI and the CIA.

"We'd be happy to mail them to the CIA if they wanted," Dickens said. "They're
not of particular use to us."

Law enforcement and counterterrorism officials, told about the shredding by the
Associated Press, said they could see an investigative use for the information.

In the most recent lottery, the government received 8.7 million applications. It
awarded visas to citizens of the seven countries the United States considers
state sponsors of terrorism -- Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria and
Yemen -- as well as Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Sudan, plus
178 other countries.

A top Bush administration counterterrorism official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said he found the destruction of applications "very shocking." The
official said the documents would be useful to investigators tracing
biographical information about people living overseas who are trying to enter
the United States.

Immigration experts oppose plans to keep and distribute the applications.

Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell University, said
storing the information from unsuccessful applications would create "yet another
ineffective database."

"A terrorist is not going to be applying for a green card through the lottery,"
Yale-Loehr said. "In terms of trying to find a needle in a haystack, there's no
need to make that haystack that much bigger."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 24, 2002 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Sept. 11 detainee released from jail, still faces charges

BYLINE: Karen de Sa and Mark Gladstone Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words


Azmy Elghazaly stepped into the Sacramento sunlight Friday, ending a post-Sept.
11 incarceration that stretched for 10 months even though he was never tied to
terrorism.

"I'm free. I don't know how long," the 35-year-old said minutes after his
release. Many of the 1,200 others detained after the attacks were released, he
said, "and then put back in jail.

"I want to get home and see my children, my family."

The government never developed evidence to support its naming of Elghazaly on a
list of suspected terrorists, according to court documents, but it held him as
an illegal immigrant who had dodged a deportation order.

Still, the length of Elghazaly's detention before his friends could bail him out
-- well beyond the 90-day period that immigration officials have to deport or
free an immigration law violator -- underscores that his was a case with no easy
answers.

Just before his release from the Sacramento County jail, the devout Muslim was
handed a ham sandwich, which he could not eat because of religious dietary
rules, and told to dump his blanket in a bin. "I didn't believe it actually,"
said Elghazaly, who was initially arrested in Salinas and has made a living as a
truck driver and convenience store clerk since 1990.

Now he is free, but Elghazaly knows he faces serious trials. One reason he has
stayed in jail since Oct. 12, rather than being deported, is that no country
will accept him. He still faces charges of being undocumented and owning a gun,
and he owes his friends thousands of dollars for bailing him out.

Although Elghazaly has two U.S.-born children and has long had permission to
work in this country, he became an illegal immigrant in 1999, when his second
appeal for asylum was rejected. At that point, he had lost his Saudi Arabian
residency status and could not return to Israel or the Gaza Strip, where he was
born.

Elghazaly said he did not report for deportation in 1999 because he knew there
was no country he could be expelled to, and because he feared for his family's
well-being if he was jailed.

His 3-year-old daughter, Nawal, suffers from spina bifida, a severe birth defect
requiring constant medical attention. Nawal has shunts implanted in her head,
draining fluid from her brain; she wears braces on her legs.

Elghazaly has not been able to help his wife care for their children since
October, when someone reported him to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Within a week, authorities discovered he had a gun at home. Although it
was purchased legally from a licensed gun dealer, the weapon landed him with a
five-count federal indictment because he had retained it as an illegal
immigrant. Elghazaly owned the gun to protect his family from intruders, he
said.

San Jose immigration attorney Bruce Burns is representing Elghazaly and has said
he will fight to have his asylum case reopened so that he can remain in the
country.

Since October, Elghazaly has been in INS custody, first in San Jose and later in
Yuba County and then Sacramento. .

Feverish preparations were under way Friday for his family's reunion in
Bakersfield. His wife, Faryal Wasti, collected ingredients for his favorite meal
of kapsa, with chicken, cinnamon and Arabic allspice. Wasti screamed, laughed
and cried on the phone when she first heard his voice outside the jail.

"Words can't describe it, really, I'm so happy; I'm very, very happy," she
said.'

Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sjmercury.com or (408) 295-3984.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 24, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Sept. 11 detainee released from jail;
MAN STILL FACES IMMIGRATION, GUN CHARGES

BYLINE: Karen de Sa and Mark Gladstone Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words


Azmy Elghazaly stepped into the Sacramento sunlight Friday, ending a post-Sept.
11 incarceration that stretched for 10 months even though he was never tied to
terrorism.

"I'm free. I don't know how long," the 35-year-old said minutes after his
release. Many of the 1,200 others detained after the attacks were released, he
said, "and then put back in jail.

"I want to get home and see my children, my family."

The government never developed evidence to support its naming of Elghazaly on a
list of suspected terrorists, according to court documents, but it held him as
an illegal immigrant who had dodged a deportation order.

Still, the length of Elghazaly's detention before his friends could bail him out
-- well beyond the 90-day period that immigration officials have to deport or
free an immigration law violator -- underscores that his was a case with no easy
answers.

Just before his release from the Sacramento County jail, the devout Muslim was
handed a ham sandwich, which he could not eat because of religious dietary
rules, and told to dump his blanket in a bin. "I didn't believe it actually,"
said Elghazaly, who was initially arrested in Salinas and has made a living as a
truck driver and convenience store clerk since 1990.

Trials ahead

Now he is free, but Elghazaly knows he faces serious trials. One reason he has
stayed in jail since Oct. 12, rather than being deported, is that no country
will accept him. He still faces charges of being undocumented and owning a gun,
and he owes his friends thousands of dollars for bailing him out.

Although Elghazaly has two U.S.-born children and has long had permission to
work in this country, he became an illegal immigrant in 1999, when his second
appeal for asylum was rejected. At that point, he had lost his Saudi Arabian
residency status and could not return to Israel or the Gaza Strip, where he was
born.

Elghazaly said he did not report for deportation in 1999 because he knew there
was no country he could be expelled to, and because he feared for his family's
well-being if he was jailed.

His 3-year-old daughter, Nawal, suffers from spina bifida, a severe birth defect
requiring constant medical attention. Nawal has shunts implanted in her head,
draining fluid from her brain; she wears braces on her legs.

Elghazaly has not been able to help his wife care for their children since
October, when someone reported him to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Within a week, authorities discovered he had a gun at home. Although it
was purchased legally from a licensed gun dealer, the weapon landed him with a
five-count federal indictment because he had retained it as an illegal
immigrant. Elghazaly owned the gun to protect his family from intruders, he
said.

Asylum case

San Jose immigration attorney Bruce Burns is representing Elghazaly and has said
he will fight to have his asylum case reopened so that he can remain in the
country.

"He's been here for 10 years, and yes he entered legally and he overstayed his
visa -- that happens to literally millions of people a year," Burns said. "Also,
with his daughter being ill, what medical facilities would be provided to a
Palestinian sent back to Saudi Arabia who has no job and no place to live? I
don't think the American people would feel comfortable with having an American
citizen child getting treatment there."

Outside of Elghazaly's network of friends and fellow worshipers, his case
attracted little attention. And as one of the 1,200 mainly Arab, Muslim and
Middle Easterners detained after Sept. 11, that is not unusual.

Fight for names

Advocates and immigration attorneys have battled in federal court to gain access
to the names of the approximately 150 detainees still behind bars. But so far,
the Justice Department has kept secret the arrests -- and the names -- citing
fears of compromised domestic security.

Sitting in the lobby of a Sacramento law office after his Friday release,
Elghazaly displayed an outward calm, his hands on his lap as he spoke. His black
beard was neatly trimmed, and his head of curls showed the first signs of gray.

It was the culmination of weeks of waiting. Not until July 24 did the INS offer
him the opportunity to be bailed out. Then, when his friends paid the $25,000
bond a week ago, he thought freedom would be his once again. But for reasons
that haven't been explained, he was not released until Friday.

He shied away from talking politics or discussing his views of Sept. 11. Asked
whether he felt he had civil liberties, he responded: "I don't believe I have
civil liberties. That's what I was told."

Since October, Elghazaly has been in INS custody, first in San Jose and later in
Yuba County and then Sacramento. In San Jose he was kept in maximum security,
allowed out of his cell for one hour every two days. During that hour, his
hands, feet and waist were shackled.

Feverish preparations were under way Friday for his family's reunion in
Bakersfield. His wife, Faryal Wasti, collected ingredients for his favorite meal
of kapsa, with chicken, cinnamon and Arabic allspice. Wasti screamed, laughed
and cried on the phone when she first heard his voice outside the jail.

"Words can't describe it, really, I'm so happy; I'm very, very happy," she said.
As for her husband, he anticipates a short-lived happiness. "I have a lot of
work to do" on my case, he said. "That's what I need to put my mind to do."

Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sjmercury.com or (408) 295-3984.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 24, 2002 Saturday A1 EDITION

Sept. 11 detainee released;
MAN FACING CHARGES OVER GUN, IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Karen de Sa and Mark Gladstone Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words


Azmy Elghazaly stepped into the Sacramento sunlight Friday, ending a post-Sept.
11 incarceration that stretched for 10 months even though he was never tied to
terrorism.

"I'm free. I don't know how long," the 35-year-old said minutes after his
release. Many of the 1,200 others detained after the attacks were released, he
said, "and then put back in jail.

"I want to get home and see my children, my family."

The government never developed evidence to support its naming of Elghazaly on a
list of suspected terrorists, according to court documents, but it held him as
an illegal immigrant who had dodged a deportation order.

Still, the length of Elghazaly's detention before his friends could bail him out
-- well beyond the 90-day period that immigration officials have to deport or
free an immigration law violator -- underscores that his was a case with no easy
answers.

Just before his release from the Sacramento County Jail, the devout Muslim was
handed a ham sandwich, which he could not eat because of religious dietary
rules, and told to dump his blanket in a bin. "I didn't believe it actually,"
said Elghazaly, who was initially arrested in Salinas and has made a living as a
truck driver and convenience store clerk since 1990.

Now he is free, but Elghazaly knows he faces serious trials. One reason he has
stayed in jail since Oct. 12, rather than being deported, is that no country
will accept him. He still faces charges of being undocumented and owning a gun,
and he owes his friends thousands of dollars for bailing him out.

Although Elghazaly has two U.S.-born children and has long had permission to
work in this country, he became an illegal immigrant in 1999, when his second
appeal for asylum was rejected. At that point, he had lost his Saudi Arabian
residency status and could not return to Israel or the Gaza Strip, where he was
born.

Elghazaly said he did not report for deportation in 1999 because he knew there
was no country he could be expelled to, and because he feared for his family's
well-being if he was jailed.

His 3-year-old daughter, Nawal, suffers from spina bifida, a severe birth defect
requiring constant medical attention. Nawal has shunts implanted in her head,
draining fluid from her brain; she wears braces on her legs.

Elghazaly has not been able to help his wife care for their children since
October, when someone reported him to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Within a week, authorities discovered he had a gun at home. Although it
was purchased legally from a licensed gun dealer, the weapon landed him with a
five-count federal indictment because he had retained it as an illegal
immigrant. Elghazaly owned the gun to protect his family from intruders, he
said.

San Jose immigration attorney Bruce Burns is representing Elghazaly and has said
he will fight to have his asylum case reopened so that he can remain in the
country.

"He's been here for 10 years, and yes he entered legally and he overstayed his
visa -- that happens to literally millions of people a year," Burns said. "Also,
with his daughter being ill, what medical facilities would be provided to a
Palestinian sent back to Saudi Arabia who has no job and no place to live? I
don't think the American people would feel comfortable with having an American
citizen child getting treatment there."

Outside of Elghazaly's network of friends and fellow worshipers, his case
attracted little attention. And as one of the 1,200 mainly Arab, Muslim and
Middle Easterners detained after Sept. 11, that is not unusual.

Advocates and immigration attorneys have battled in federal court to gain access
to the names of the approximately 150 detainees still behind bars. But so far,
the Justice Department has kept secret the arrests -- and the names -- citing
fears of compromised domestic security.

Sitting in the lobby of a Sacramento law office after his Friday release,
Elghazaly displayed an outward calm, his hands on his lap as he spoke. His black
beard was neatly trimmed, and his head of curls showed the first signs of gray.

It was the culmination of weeks of waiting. Not until July 24 did the INS offer
him the opportunity to be bailed out. Then, when his friends paid the $25,000
bond a week ago, he thought freedom would be his once again. But for reasons
that haven't been explained, he was not released until Friday.

He shied away from talking politics or discussing his views of Sept. 11. Asked
whether he felt he had civil liberties, he responded: "I don't believe I have
civil liberties. That's what I was told."

Since October, Elghazaly has been in INS custody, first in San Jose and later in
Yuba County and then Sacramento. In San Jose he was kept in maximum security,
allowed out of his cell for one hour every two days. During that hour, his
hands, feet and waist were shackled.

Feverish preparations were under way Friday for his family's reunion in
Bakersfield. His wife, Faryal Wasti screamed, laughed and cried on the phone
when she first heard his voice outside the jail.

"Words can't describe it, really, I'm so happy; I'm very, very happy," she said.
As for her husband, he anticipates a short-lived happiness. "I have a lot of
work to do" on my case, he said. "That's what I need to put my mind to do."

Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sjmercury.com or (408) 295-3984.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 8, 2002 Wednesday

Ukrainians on trial for human smuggling in L.A.;
Government says Ukrainian illegals

BYLINE: Associated Press: Sandra Marquez

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A smuggling ring that lured hundreds of Ukrainians to Los Angeles -- many of
them young women who were forced into prostitution -- was a "full service"
operation that netted hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal profits,
federal prosecutors said Monday.

"They smuggled illegal aliens in boats, in the trunks of cars, and on foot,"
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Aveis. "And they did it over, and over, and
over again."

During opening statements in federal court, prosecutors provided an inside look
into what they described as a conspiracy by seven Ukrainians they allege
operated an all-cash smuggling ring that transported would-be immigrants from
Ukraine to Los Angeles -- with stops in Mexico City and Baja California.

The defendants are: Tetyana Komisaruk, 50; her husband, Veleriy Komisaruk, 40;
her daughters, Nataliya Korolova, 31, and Lorina Latysheva, 25; Latysheva's
husband, Oleksandr Latyshev, 29; Serge Mezheritsky, 36; and Grigoriy Chernov,
50.

They face multiple charges, including: conspiracy to transport illegal aliens;
importing and harboring aliens for the purpose of prostitution and money
laundering.

The trial before U.S. District Court Judge Robert Takasugi is expected to last
about six weeks.

A picture emerged from the first day of the trail of an illicit family business,
with five relatives and their friends allegedly dividing up tasks, including:
coaching immigrants on what to tell U.S. Border Patrol agents if caught; giving
them clothes, including Levi's, in order to help them blend in; and teaching
them how to walk across the border.

"Some of them, both men and women, had their hair bleached blonde," Aveis said.
"It took several hours to bleach the hair of one of these Ukrainian women and
she was told she would have to pay $250 for the job."

The prosecutor said the immigrants paid an initial $2,500 to get to Mexico City,
where they were shuttled to hotels and a safe-house in Baja. The Ukrainians then
were told they had to pay more to enter the United States.

Tetyana Komisaruk was described as the ringleader, responsible for overseeing
the "comings and goings" of the smuggled Ukrainians and demanding payment from
them. Wiretapped conversations caught her referring to the smuggled women as
"whores," Aveis said.

Prosecutors said she shared command of the operation with her husband, Valeriy
Komisaruk, who "helped operate staging points in Mexico," including a villa near
the California border where the smuggled immigrants were housed until they
arrived in the United States.

Mezheritsky, a Ukrainian emigre who once ran unsuccessfully for City Council in
West Hollywood, was described as the third key player. He provided boats and
cars for smuggling illegal aliens, Aveis said, and "worked with Mexican guides
to shepherd illegal aliens into the United States."

Ellen Barry, the attorney representing Valeriy Komisaruk, said the smuggled
aliens who will serve as witnesses on the government's behalf were no innocents.

"They were willing to deceive whoever they had to deceive to get across the
border," she said. "And when they got caught and found out what the government
was willing to offer them, they were willing to do and say whatever they had
to."

The investigation was triggered by a video camera that Border Patrol agents
found on a dirt trail near the U.S.-Mexico border in 1999. The taped showed what
appeared to be the trip of a Russian family "through Hungary, Mexico City and up
to Tijuana," Aveis said.

The defendants face up to 10 years in prison for each smuggled alien.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              103 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             May 8, 2002 Wednesday

Ukrainians on trial for human smuggling in L.A.;
Government says Ukrainian illegals

BYLINE: Associated Press: Sandra Marquez

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A smuggling ring that lured hundreds of Ukrainians to Los Angeles -- many of
them young women who were forced into prostitution -- was a "full service"
operation that netted hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal profits,
federal prosecutors said Monday.

"They smuggled illegal aliens in boats, in the trunks of cars, and on foot,"
said Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Aveis. "And they did it over, and over, and
over again."

During opening statements in federal court, prosecutors provided an inside look
into what they described as a conspiracy by seven Ukrainians they allege
operated an all-cash smuggling ring that transported would-be immigrants from
Ukraine to Los Angeles -- with stops in Mexico City and Baja California.

The defendants are: Tetyana Komisaruk, 50; her husband, Veleriy Komisaruk, 40;
her daughters, Nataliya Korolova, 31, and Lorina Latysheva, 25; Latysheva's
husband, Oleksandr Latyshev, 29; Serge Mezheritsky, 36; and Grigoriy Chernov,
50.

They face multiple charges, including: conspiracy to transport illegal aliens;
importing and harboring aliens for the purpose of prostitution and money
laundering.

The trial before U.S. District Court Judge Robert Takasugi is expected to last
about six weeks.

A picture emerged from the first day of the trail of an illicit family business,
with five relatives and their friends allegedly dividing up tasks, including:
coaching immigrants on what to tell U.S. Border Patrol agents if caught; giving
them clothes, including Levi's, in order to help them blend in; and teaching
them how to walk across the border.

"Some of them, both men and women, had their hair bleached blonde," Aveis said.
"It took several hours to bleach the hair of one of these Ukrainian women and
she was told she would have to pay $250 for the job."

The prosecutor said the immigrants paid an initial $2,500 to get to Mexico City,
where they were shuttled to hotels and a safe-house in Baja. The Ukrainians then
were told they had to pay more to enter the United States.

Tetyana Komisaruk was described as the ringleader, responsible for overseeing
the "comings and goings" of the smuggled Ukrainians and demanding payment from
them. Wiretapped conversations caught her referring to the smuggled women as
"whores," Aveis said.

Prosecutors said she shared command of the operation with her husband, Valeriy
Komisaruk, who "helped operate staging points in Mexico," including a villa near
the California border where the smuggled immigrants were housed until they
arrived in the United States.

Mezheritsky, a Ukrainian emigre who once ran unsuccessfully for City Council in
West Hollywood, was described as the third key player. He provided boats and
cars for smuggling illegal aliens, Aveis said, and "worked with Mexican guides
to shepherd illegal aliens into the United States."

Ellen Barry, the attorney representing Valeriy Komisaruk, said the smuggled
aliens who will serve as witnesses on the government's behalf were no innocents.

"They were willing to deceive whoever they had to deceive to get across the
border," she said. "And when they got caught and found out what the government
was willing to offer them, they were willing to do and say whatever they had
to."

The investigation was triggered by a video camera that Border Patrol agents
found on a dirt trail near the U.S.-Mexico border in 1999. The taped showed what
appeared to be the trip of a Russian family "through Hungary, Mexico City and up
to Tijuana," Aveis said.

The defendants face up to 10 years in prison for each smuggled alien.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              104 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            January 29, 2002 Tuesday

California considers bill to let them drive;
States debate letting illegals get licenses

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 603 words


By Deborah Kong The Associated Press

Each day, some of the estimated 9 million illegal immigrants in the United
States get in their cars and drive -- without a license.

Some state lawmakers are now pushing to let those immigrants get licenses,
forcing them to learn the rules of the road and sign up for auto insurance in
the process. But others worry that easing license restrictions would allow
terrorists like the Sept. 11 hijackers to insinuate themselves into American
society.

Already, at least three states -- Utah, North Carolina and Tennessee -- don't
require driver's license applicants to prove they are in the United States
legally, and allow them to submit documents other than a Social Security number.
[Illegal immigrants cannot get Social Security numbers.]

In California, both the state Assembly and Senate approved a licensing bill
sponsored by state Assemblyman Gil Cedillo last year. Cedillo is now in talks
with Gov. Gray Davis to address security concerns.

That upsets some motor vehicle officials.

A driver's license "allows you to immerse yourself in society," said Linda
Lewis, president of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators.
"There are loopholes in the law that allow those who are here to do harm to work
their way into the system."

Highway safety is the concern in Illinois, Colorado and Georgia, where some
legislators want to make it easier for undocumented immigrants to get licenses.
In California, a proposed bill would allow immigrants to get licenses if they've
applied for legal status.

"What I'm trying to deal with is the reality of the fact that these individuals
are here, they're working here, and they're driving here," said Colorado state
Sen. Ron Tupa, D-Boulder.

Like other state bills, his would allow illegal immigrants to get licenses by
allowing them to submit federal taxpayer identification numbers instead of
Social Security numbers. Such tax numbers are available to illegal immigrants.

We're talking about rewarding people who are here illegally and should not be
able to obtain a driver's license, or any other privilege of an American
citizen, said U.S. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo..

But in Georgia, state Rep. Barbara Mobley said the terrorist attacks may have
hindered her bill to allow undocumented immigrants to get licenses. There's
wholesale paranoia of parts of the immigrant population, Mobley said.

In Illinois, the first public hearings on a bill were scheduled for Sept. 11.
Those hearings have been postponed until late next month or early March, said
state Rep. William Delgado.

Lucrecia Mejia, an undocumented immigrant who came to the United States from
Mexico in 1992, is among those hoping the measure will become law.

Five days a week, Mejia drives 40 minutes each way to her job at a sporting
goods warehouse in a Chicago suburb, even though she doesn't have a license. She
says the best job opportunities are in the suburbs, but she must drive to get to
them because she lives in the city.

Sometimes we get in accidents and we don't have licenses or insurance, she said.
Allowing undocumented immigrants to have licenses is a question of safety for
everybody.

--->

"What we have to figure out is how can we enable the hardworking immigrants that
are a big part of the economy to have a driver's license," said David Galaviz,
Cedillo's legislative director, "while at the same time ensuring that we are
able to track down the folks that are here potentially to do damage to
California."

On the Net:

American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators: http://www.aamva.org/

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              105 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 15, 2002 Friday

Advocates want to change INS handling of illegal immigrant kids;
By Marc Levy The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 794 words


HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Back in July, four teen-agers from the impoverished African
country of Tanzania walked away from an international Boy Scout jamboree in
Virginia in hopes of staying in the United States and getting an education.

When they saw reports of their disappearance on television, they turned
themselves in.

More than six months later, the boys remain in an Immigration and Naturalization
Service detention center in Pennsylvania while their lawyers and the INS argue
over whether they can stay in the country. A decision could be months away.

Advocates of quicker, more humane treatment of unaccompanied youngsters who are
in the United States illegally say the case is not uncommon.

"Our immigration system treats children as aliens first, and then children as an
afterthought, to a certain degree," said Chris Nugent, who runs the American Bar
Association's immigration pro bono project.

Such cases have prompted an internal review of INS policies, a push by legal
organizations and nonprofit groups to establish a lawyer-referral system, and
legislation in Congress to change the duties of the INS.

The legislation would break off the role of custodian and caregiver from the
INS, which is also the chief law enforcer dealing with juveniles who are in this
country illegally.

Supporters of the bills -- introduced over a year ago, but delayed by the Sept.
11 attacks -- argue that the INS is not equipped to look out for children, and
that caring for youngsters while prosecuting them represents a conflict of
interest. A Senate Judiciary Committee hearing is set for Feb. 28.

Andrew Morton, a Washington lobbyist who is serving without compensation as the
Tanzanian boys' attorney, said the youngsters, ages 16 and 17, do not want to go
back to their homeland for fear of reprisals for embarrassing their government.
He said their parents want the boys to be released to a foster family and
allowed to remain in the United States.

The reasons for the Tanzanian boys' extended detention are in dispute.

Morton said that he found a foster family last August willing to take the boys
in while their case wends it way through the courts. However, he said the INS
believes the boys have relatives living illegally in the Washington area, and
the agency may be holding the youngsters in an attempt to get the family members
to turn themselves in.

Children's advocates call the practice "baiting" and say it is widely used by
the INS.

The INS denied it engages in baiting. The agency says it does not discuss
specific cases. But a government source speaking on condition of anonymity said
the INS would release the boys to a foster family if it received a statement
from their parents asking the agency to do so.

Generally, the INS works with nonprofit organizations to try to find homes for
juveniles while their cases proceed. That is what was done with Elian Gonzalez,
the 6-year-old Cuban boy who lived with relatives in Miami. The INS also works
with nonprofit organizations to find lawyers willing to represent illegal
immigrants for free.

However, it can be difficult to find attorneys for each of the more than 20,000
immigrants in INS custody at any one time, INS spokeswoman Karen Kraushaar said.
And while illegal aliens have the right to retain an attorney, the government is
under no obligation to appoint one for them at taxpayer expense.

In general, about 65 percent of the unaccompanied alien juveniles scooped up by
the INS -- a total of 4,500 to 5,000 a year, most of them 14 to 16 years old --
get placed with immediate blood relatives in the United States within days or
weeks.

With appeals, asylum cases can drag on for months or years.

Critics of the INS cite the cases of a 16-year-old Guatemalan boy and an
8-year-old Nigerian girl.

The boy, who was badly abused by his parents, has been held for eight months --
in adult jails and detention centers -- while the INS waits for the boy's
brother, an illegal immigrant living in the United States, to turn himself in,
according to advocates. The Nigerian girl, who was abandoned by her parents, was
in custody for eight months before being placed with an aunt in Connecticut,
advocates said.

Under the legislation in Congress, the Justice Department's Office of Children's
Services would take custody of the children and find someone to take care of
them, while the INS would prosecute them. The legislation would also require
that each child be provided with a pro bono attorney.

Advocates are also pushing for the establishment of a separate immigration court
docket to speed up juvenile cases.

-----

On the Net:

Immigration and Naturalization Service: http://www.ins.usdoj.gov

American Bar Association: http://www.abanet.org

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              106 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 22, 2002 Friday

Report shows economy's reliance on illegal immigrants;
Mexican nationals comprise majority of undocumented force

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 436 words


By Deborah Kong The Associated Press

Almost a quarter of people working in private households in the United States
are illegal immigrants, as are about half the country's farmworkers and 9
percent of its restaurant employees, a report says.

The analysis by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center offers a detailed look at
the nation's illegal immigrants, estimated at almost 8 million people, and
demonstrates how much certain industries rely on the country's approximately 5.3
million undocumented workers.

The report comes as President Bush was scheduled to travel to a U.N. development
conference in Mexico on Thursday. He was also expected to meet with Mexican
President Vicente Fox to discuss immigration, among other issues.

Immigration advocates hoped the leaders would resume negotiations on legalizing
undocumented immigrants and expanding a temporary worker program that allows
Mexicans to cross the border into the United States.

The report estimated Mexicans make up 58 percent of the undocumented population,
while Central Americans account for about a fifth.

The estimates illustrate that "the idea of creating a program to legalize the
unauthorized work force is an endeavor of enormous scope, and significantly
larger than the last go-around," said Roberto Suro, director of the research
group, referring to a 1986 amnesty that granted legal status to almost 3 million
undocumented immigrants.

Suro said the economy's growth in the 1990s created high demand for unauthorized
workers.

The report relies on such information as census figures, Immigration and
Naturalization Service data, and employment estimates for various industries.

It estimated that 24 percent of private household workers, including maids and
nannies, are undocumented.

Seventeen percent of those in the business services industry, which includes
maintenance workers and employees in mailing houses, advertising and credit
reporting companies, are undocumented. The report also said 6 percent of those
in construction and manufacturing are undocumented.

Agriculture relies most heavily on undocumented workers -- 47 percent of the 2.5
million U.S. farmworkers are undocumented, according to the report.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group, said the estimates could help define discussions about
legalization.

"This is the first time we've been able to quantify the estimates," she said.
"Hopefully the more quantified, the more analytical the debate gets, we can get
away from emotion and hyperbole."

On the Net: http://www.pewhispanic.org

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              107 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 22, 2002 Friday

Report shows economy's reliance on illegal immigrants;
Mexican nationals comprise majority of undocumented force

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 436 words


By Deborah Kong The Associated Press

Almost a quarter of people working in private households in the United States
are illegal immigrants, as are about half the country's farmworkers and 9
percent of its restaurant employees, a report says.

The analysis by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center offers a detailed look at
the nation's illegal immigrants, estimated at almost 8 million people, and
demonstrates how much certain industries rely on the country's approximately 5.3
million undocumented workers.

The report comes as President Bush was scheduled to travel to a U.N. development
conference in Mexico on Thursday. He was also expected to meet with Mexican
President Vicente Fox to discuss immigration, among other issues.

Immigration advocates hoped the leaders would resume negotiations on legalizing
undocumented immigrants and expanding a temporary worker program that allows
Mexicans to cross the border into the United States.

The report estimated Mexicans make up 58 percent of the undocumented population,
while Central Americans account for about a fifth.

The estimates illustrate that "the idea of creating a program to legalize the
unauthorized work force is an endeavor of enormous scope, and significantly
larger than the last go-around," said Roberto Suro, director of the research
group, referring to a 1986 amnesty that granted legal status to almost 3 million
undocumented immigrants.

Suro said the economy's growth in the 1990s created high demand for unauthorized
workers.

The report relies on such information as census figures, Immigration and
Naturalization Service data, and employment estimates for various industries.

It estimated that 24 percent of private household workers, including maids and
nannies, are undocumented.

Seventeen percent of those in the business services industry, which includes
maintenance workers and employees in mailing houses, advertising and credit
reporting companies, are undocumented. The report also said 6 percent of those
in construction and manufacturing are undocumented.

Agriculture relies most heavily on undocumented workers -- 47 percent of the 2.5
million U.S. farmworkers are undocumented, according to the report.

Cecilia Munoz, a vice president at the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group, said the estimates could help define discussions about
legalization.

"This is the first time we've been able to quantify the estimates," she said.
"Hopefully the more quantified, the more analytical the debate gets, we can get
away from emotion and hyperbole."

On the Net: http://www.pewhispanic.org

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              108 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              May 2, 2002 Thursday

Illegal immigrants left in the lurch as U.S. considers splitting INS

BYLINE: Staff Writer: Julissa McKinnon

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: HAYWARD


With a brand-new house, a hefty pay raise, and a baby on the way, James and
Nancy Berganciano's American Dream was almost complete.

But rather than shopping for a bassinet and teething toys, the couple is buying
James a plane ticket to Guadalajara, Mexico -- where Nancy, 28, waits to give
birth to their first baby this July.

One month after Nancy's sudden deportation, James, 32, sat Budweiser in hand,
eyes reddening, still asking, "Why?"

The journeyman construction worker says he never imagined his wife and unborn
baby could be whisked to Tijuana within 48 hours of Nancy's final green card
interview. Though his baby could easily become an American, his wife has been
barred from entering the United States for 10 years.

The Berganciano's case illustrates the difficulties of splitting the INS into
two branches -- one for "immigration services" and the other for "enforcement"
as the House of Representatives recently proposed.

Like hundreds of illegal immigrants, Nancy was trying to legalize her status. It
remains unclear whether people like her will be hounded as criminals by the
enforcement branch, or shepherded into residency by "immigration services."

The INS deemed Nancy a criminal because of one candid answer.

During her green card interview she told authorities she used false documents to
slip past border patrol in May 1999, months after being denied entry to the
United States with a tourist visa.

Within minutes Nancy was arrested and shuttled to an Oakland jail cell. She was
flown to Tijuana the next day. From there, she paid her own way to her parents'
home in Guadalajara, where the former dental assistant helps her mother cook and
clean and waits for her husband's daily phone call.

Meanwhile, as James fills out every INS petition and waiver he

can find, the political climate may play the biggest role in deciding the
family's fate.

Only days before Sept. 11, Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox discussed
granting guest worker status and eventual legal residency to some of the 3
million Mexican illegal immigrants living in the United States.

Those talks have not been resumed. Instead, the INS has been making more
unwelcome house calls, deporting not only violent criminals but also workaday
people -- anyone with a pending deportation order.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said the INS goal this year is to deport at least
10 percent of the more than 300,000 fugitives living in the United States.

The difference between being pegged a criminal or embraced as a permanent
resident has come down to timing for many illegal immigrants.

Simon, Nancy's brother-in-law, who emigrated from a tiny coastal town in
Jalisco, Mexico, said he considers himself very lucky. Simon became a U.S.
citizen under the lame-duck Clinton Administration's amnesty during early 2001.
That brief opening allowed U.S. residents to legalize their loved ones, and
illegal immigrants to apply for green cards without leaving the country.

But Simon, a supervisor at a plastic parts factory, said even though he no
longer has to dodge deportation, his newfound status is shadowed by guilt.

"I'm now a citizen and I don't have to worry but it still doesn't leave me with
a good feeling," he said in Spanish. "I think about the people who die trying to
cross the border. People forget this land once belonged to Mexico and that
people aren't to blame for their president's economic disasters."

Jaime Jaramillo, director of Centro de Servicios, a counseling center for
Latinos, said anxiety and fear have run high in the Latino community since Sept.
11.

"What can we tell people? There is a risk in applying for legal status these
days," he said. "We can't say the INS won't come after the small fish anymore."

INS critics like Congressman Pete Stark [D-Fremont] say immigration laws are not
beneficial if they filter out hard-working, peaceful members of society.

"If someone has been a good resident and worked hard, these are the kind of
people we want in this country," Stark said. "Too often we're driven to hire
workers at our own convenience and then dump them when we're done with them.
This troubles me and I think we need a more humane approach."

But Rummery said the INS cannot be sympathetic toward any one person's hardship.
She said exceptions to the rule are rarely, if ever, granted.

"It's never easy to be deported. It will always pose a hardship," she said.
"It's a consequence of breaking the law."

As his nephews hunched over a car-racing video game, James -- a third-generation
American -- pondered his future.

"Either I get a divorce lawyer and leave my baby with a deadbeat dad, or I leave
my country and move to Mexico where I can work for $1.50," he said.

Nancy says despite her anxiety and depression, her husband's words of
reassurance keep her dreams for a stable family future alive. But her voice
broke into tears as she thought about the possibility of James migrating to
Mexico.

"James has built his whole life around carpentry and there is no carpentry
here," she said in Spanish from Guadalajara. "There are no wood houses. They are
all made of cement."

James says he may not be able to afford the plane ticket to Mexico to see his
baby's birth. In one month, the Bergancianos have spent more than $3,000 in
phone bills and lawyer and application fees.

James also faces mortgage payments on the couple's new home in Stockton. The
couple had been living at his sister's house in Hayward until they closed the
deal. James plans to move into the house alone this month. He will have to pay
the mortgage on one income, without the money his wife was earning as a dental
assistant in Fremont.

Meanwhile Nancy's career dreams -- she hoped to earn a certificate in radiology
-- are out of reach in Mexico. Her problems are more basic now.

"Whatever I feel my baby feels," she sniffled. "I hope he's born healthy,
without any complications or anything because of my stress. None of this is my
baby's fault, so why does he have to pay by not having his father with him?"

Julissa McKinnon covers religion and community life. Call her at [510] 293-2479
or e-mail jmckinnon@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              109 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              May 2, 2002 Thursday

Illegal immigrants left in the lurch as U.S. considers splitting INS

BYLINE: Staff Writer: Julissa McKinnon

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1035 words

DATELINE: HAYWARD


With a brand-new house, a hefty pay raise, and a baby on the way, James and
Nancy Berganciano's American Dream was almost complete.

But rather than shopping for a bassinet and teething toys, the couple is buying
James a plane ticket to Guadalajara, Mexico -- where Nancy, 28, waits to give
birth to their first baby this July.

One month after Nancy's sudden deportation, James, 32, sat Budweiser in hand,
eyes reddening, still asking, "Why?"

The journeyman construction worker says he never imagined his wife and unborn
baby could be whisked to Tijuana within 48 hours of Nancy's final green card
interview. Though his baby could easily become an American, his wife has been
barred from entering the United States for 10 years.

The Berganciano's case illustrates the difficulties of splitting the INS into
two branches -- one for "immigration services" and the other for "enforcement"
as the House of Representatives recently proposed.

Like hundreds of illegal immigrants, Nancy was trying to legalize her status. It
remains unclear whether people like her will be hounded as criminals by the
enforcement branch, or shepherded into residency by "immigration services."

The INS deemed Nancy a criminal because of one candid answer.

During her green card interview she told authorities she used false documents to
slip past border patrol in May 1999, months after being denied entry to the
United States with a tourist visa.

Within minutes Nancy was arrested and shuttled to an Oakland jail cell. She was
flown to Tijuana the next day. From there, she paid her own way to her parents'
home in Guadalajara, where the former dental assistant helps her mother cook and
clean and waits for her husband's daily phone call.

Meanwhile, as James fills out every INS petition and waiver he

can find, the political climate may play the biggest role in deciding the
family's fate.

Only days before Sept. 11, Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox discussed
granting guest worker status and eventual legal residency to some of the 3
million Mexican illegal immigrants living in the United States.

Those talks have not been resumed. Instead, the INS has been making more
unwelcome house calls, deporting not only violent criminals but also workaday
people -- anyone with a pending deportation order.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said the INS goal this year is to deport at least
10 percent of the more than 300,000 fugitives living in the United States.

The difference between being pegged a criminal or embraced as a permanent
resident has come down to timing for many illegal immigrants.

Simon, Nancy's brother-in-law, who emigrated from a tiny coastal town in
Jalisco, Mexico, said he considers himself very lucky. Simon became a U.S.
citizen under the lame-duck Clinton Administration's amnesty during early 2001.
That brief opening allowed U.S. residents to legalize their loved ones, and
illegal immigrants to apply for green cards without leaving the country.

But Simon, a supervisor at a plastic parts factory, said even though he no
longer has to dodge deportation, his newfound status is shadowed by guilt.

"I'm now a citizen and I don't have to worry but it still doesn't leave me with
a good feeling," he said in Spanish. "I think about the people who die trying to
cross the border. People forget this land once belonged to Mexico and that
people aren't to blame for their president's economic disasters."

Jaime Jaramillo, director of Centro de Servicios, a counseling center for
Latinos, said anxiety and fear have run high in the Latino community since Sept.
11.

"What can we tell people? There is a risk in applying for legal status these
days," he said. "We can't say the INS won't come after the small fish anymore."

INS critics like Congressman Pete Stark [D-Fremont] say immigration laws are not
beneficial if they filter out hard-working, peaceful members of society.

"If someone has been a good resident and worked hard, these are the kind of
people we want in this country," Stark said. "Too often we're driven to hire
workers at our own convenience and then dump them when we're done with them.
This troubles me and I think we need a more humane approach."

But Rummery said the INS cannot be sympathetic toward any one person's hardship.
She said exceptions to the rule are rarely, if ever, granted.

"It's never easy to be deported. It will always pose a hardship," she said.
"It's a consequence of breaking the law."

As his nephews hunched over a car-racing video game, James -- a third-generation
American -- pondered his future.

"Either I get a divorce lawyer and leave my baby with a deadbeat dad, or I leave
my country and move to Mexico where I can work for $1.50," he said.

Nancy says despite her anxiety and depression, her husband's words of
reassurance keep her dreams for a stable family future alive. But her voice
broke into tears as she thought about the possibility of James migrating to
Mexico.

"James has built his whole life around carpentry and there is no carpentry
here," she said in Spanish from Guadalajara. "There are no wood houses. They are
all made of cement."

James says he may not be able to afford the plane ticket to Mexico to see his
baby's birth. In one month, the Bergancianos have spent more than $3,000 in
phone bills and lawyer and application fees.

James also faces mortgage payments on the couple's new home in Stockton. The
couple had been living at his sister's house in Hayward until they closed the
deal. James plans to move into the house alone this month. He will have to pay
the mortgage on one income, without the money his wife was earning as a dental
assistant in Fremont.

Meanwhile Nancy's career dreams -- she hoped to earn a certificate in radiology
-- are out of reach in Mexico. Her problems are more basic now.

"Whatever I feel my baby feels," she sniffled. "I hope he's born healthy,
without any complications or anything because of my stress. None of this is my
baby's fault, so why does he have to pay by not having his father with him?"

Julissa McKinnon covers religion and community life. Call her at [510] 293-2479
or e-mail jmckinnon@angnewspapers.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              110 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 15, 2002 Saturday

Immigrants shot along SoCal border

BYLINE: By Ben Fox, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Eight illegal immigrants were wounded when a sport utility vehicle carrying 23
people was fired upon in a remote desert wash in northern Mexico and again after
it had crossed over the border into the United States, authorities said Friday.

Officials in Mexico and the United States were investigating a claim by at least
one of the victims that it may have been a Mexican military unit that fired on
the SUV in Mexico, said Sgt. Manuel Garcia of the Imperial County Sheriff's
Department.

The immigrants from Mexico and Central America were attempting to cross
illegally into the United States when their Chevy Suburban was struck with
bullets from what appeared to be a large caliber weapon about 12:30 a.m. Friday,
Garcia said.

Border Patrol agents came across the immigrants shortly after the shooting on a
dirt road about 75 yards north of the international boundary in the desert about
100 miles east of San Diego.

"They were in a panic," Garcia said. "Thank God the Border Patrol was so close."

Three of the immigrants remained hospitalized with gunshot wounds Friday
afternoon, including two who had been taken by helicopter to San Diego because
of the severity of their injuries, said Border Patrol Agent Dionicio Delgado.
They were listed in stable condition, he said.

All of those injured were men. Among those inside the van were six women and one
young child. The Chevy held 17 immigrants from El Salvador, one from Ecuador and
five from Mexico, said Border Patrol Agent Manuel Figueroa.

The immigrants told authorities they came upon a second vehicle that at least
one of them said may have been a Jeep or Humvee military-style vehicle, Garcia
said.

Both vehicles had their headlights off when they first encountered each other in
a desert wash on the Mexican side of the border just after midnight. The
immigrants sped off when the headlights in the second vehicle suddenly came on.
A short lime later, they were hit with the first burst of gunfire.

It appears that the immigrants were fired upon again after they had crossed into
the United States. But by analyzing tire tracks, authorities determined that the
second vehicle did not cross the border, Garcia said.

U.S. authorities have contacted the Mexican Attorney General's office to request
assistance with the investigation, he said.

The Mexican Consul in the Imperial Valley did not immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.

Raul Ramirez Baena, the human rights ombudsman for the border state of Baja
California, said his agency had received a report that the Mexican Army was
involved in the shooting and investigators planned to interview the victims when
they returned to Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              111 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            June 26, 2002 Wednesday

Smuggler's van crashes on SoCal border highway

BYLINE: By Michelle Morgante, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Attempting to avoid a Border Patrol checkpoint, a smuggler's van packed with 27
illegal immigrants drove the wrong way down an interstate with its lights off
and then collided head-on with two other vehicles, killing six people.

The crash late Monday was heard by Border Patrol staff at the checkpoint less
than a half-mile away. Agents ran down the freeway toward the wreckage, said
Agent James Jacques, who was called to the scene an hour later.

"It was horrendous," he said.

The crash occurred in a remote area on Interstate 8, about 45 miles east of San
Diego and 15 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border.

The 1994 Dodge van was driving the wrong way in the fast lane of eastbound
Interstate 8 about 9 p.m. Monday when it sideswiped two cars before colliding
head-on with a Ford Explorer, California Highway Patrol Officer Steve Lopez
said.

The collision sent the Explorer over a guardrail and down an embankment, killing
the sport-utility vehicle's driver, Larry S. Baca, 50, of Albuquerque, N.M.

The van, filled with Mexican and Brazilian immigrants, then crashed head-on with
another vehicle before coming to rest across both eastbound lanes.

Highway patrol investigators said five people in the van, including an
unidentified man believed to have been the driver, were killed, Lopez said.

A seventh fatality initially reported by the coroner's office was later
determined to have resulted from an unrelated traffic accident, Lopez said. The
highway patrol also revised the number of people in the van, which initially was
reported as 33.

Authorities were trying to confirm the names and nationalities of the people in
the van, many of whom carried no identification, Lopez said.

The Mexican Consulate said three of the dead -- two men and a woman -- were
immigrants from Mexico. Another of the dead was believed to be from Brazil.

A total of 31 people were sent to San Diego County hospitals. Most of them
suffered minor injuries and were released.

Several remained hospitalized Tuesday, including a Brazilian woman in serious
condition; a U.S. woman in one of the vehicles hit by the van who was in good
condition; and a Mexican man who suffered a broken neck and was in stable
condition.

None of those hospitalized Tuesday agreed to speak with reporters.

Several of the van passengers were being held by the Border Patrol. Some may be
kept in the United States as witnesses in the crash investigation, Border Patrol
spokesman Raleigh Leonard said.

The Border Patrol said it was not pursuing the van prior to the crash. We
weren't even aware the vehicle was in the area, Jacques said.

Immigrant smugglers, he said, are very ruthless. They look at these people as a
commodity, not human beings. It hurts us to see this type of thing happen --
when money is more important than human life.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              112 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 27, 2002 Thursday

Sex-slave case may go to plea bargain

BYLINE: By Josh Richman, Staff Writer

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


Vijay Lakireddy, who with his father and other relatives was accused of
smuggling immigrants into the country for use as cheap labor and sex slaves,
would serve two years in federal prison under the terms of a deal he struck with
prosecutors Wednesday.

If U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken believes that sentence to be too lenient
and requires more prison time, Lakireddy, 32, can withdraw his guilty plea. He's
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 30.

He pleaded guilty Wednesday to a single count of conspiracy to commit visa
fraud, a relatively minor charge compared with those included in a federal grand
jury indictment handed down against him last year: importing and harboring
immigrants imported for immoral purposes, travel to engage in a sexual act with
a juvenile, transporting illegal immigrants among others.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan refused to say Wednesday why the
government dropped all those other charges in return for Lakireddy's guilty plea
to the one visa fraud count.

Lakireddy's attorney, George Cotsirilos, also wouldn't discuss it. And Lakireddy
himself said only, "I love my friends; I love my family; I love my country."

So it's unclear whether Wednesday's deal was related to revelations in late 2001
and early this year that a Telugu-language interpreter encouraged the family's
victims to embellish their stories. Another interpreter was accused of bias
after writing a letter urging a judge to impose a harsh sentence on Lakireddy's
father.

Vijay Lakireddy's plea bargain does not affect charges still pending against his
older brother, Prasad Lakireddy, 44, under the same 2001 indictment. Prasad
Lakireddy and his attorney, Paul Wolf, were in court but wouldn't comment
Wednesday. Asked whether plea bargain talks are under way with Prasad Lakireddy,
Corrigan replied, "Not as yet."

Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy are sons of Berkeley landlord and businessman
Lakireddy Bali Reddy, 65, who pleaded guilty last year to two counts of
importing minors for immoral sexual purposes and one count each of tax fraud and
conspiracy to commit immigration fraud. Reddy is now serving an eight-year,
one-month prison sentence.

Reddy and Vijay Lakireddy first were indicted early in 2000, accused of having
Venkateswara Vemireddy pose as the father of two sisters to bring them into the
country using temporary visas fraudulently obtained through Lakireddy's tech
business.

The elder sister died in November 1999 of carbon monoxide poisoning after a
heater in her Berkeley apartment malfunctioned. Prosecutors said these girls and
others brought here by similar means were used by Reddy as workers at his and
his family's businesses, and for his own sexual gratification.

Prosecutors replaced the indictment with a raft of fewer and lesser charges in
late 2000 as a prelude to plea bargains. Also charged at that time were Prasad
Lakireddy as well as Reddy's brother and sister-in-law, Jayaprakash and
Annapurna Lakireddy.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy each pleaded guilty last year to one count
of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud. They were sentenced in April, he to a
year and a day in a halfway house and a $30,000 fine, she to six months of home
detention and a $2,000 fine.

When Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy refused to plead guilty, prosecutors last year
obtained a new 21-count indictment against them. But on Wednesday, prosecutors
replaced the charges against Vijay with the single visa fraud count, to which he
promptly pleaded guilty.

That count is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
Under the terms of his deal, Lakireddy would serve two years in prison and pay
no fine. He would be deemed jointly liable for the $2 million in restitution his
father already has paid to victims of the scheme.

By pleading guilty, Lakireddy admitted he signed a visa application for
Vemireddy so he could bring the two girls into the country, knowing the girls
would end up "under the control of the defendant's father... and other family
members," Corrigan said Wednesday.

Lakireddy knew it was "reasonably foreseeable that the girls' services would be
retained through coercion," the prosecutor said. He added the girls were
particularly vulnerable because they were so young, they were members of a low
social caste in India and they spoke no English, all of which meant they had to
depend on Reddy and his family to survive.

The case has drawn attention from some East Bay residents who believe the
government pulled its punches against the family because they're wealthy and
because the victims were young foreign women. Several protesters attended
Wednesday's court session, and promised to flood Wilken with letters urging a
stiffer sentence for Vijay Lakireddy, just as they did when his father was about
to be sentenced.

"I'm just disgusted," said Diana Russell, a Mills College professor who helped
found a group called Women Against Sexual Slavery based on this case.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              113 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 27, 2002 Thursday

Sex-slave case may go to plea bargain

BYLINE: By Josh Richman, Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


Vijay Lakireddy, who with his father and other relatives was accused of
smuggling immigrants into the country for use as cheap labor and sex slaves,
would serve two years in federal prison under the terms of a deal he struck with
prosecutors Wednesday.

If U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken believes that sentence to be too lenient
and requires more prison time, Lakireddy, 32, can withdraw his guilty plea. He's
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 30.

He pleaded guilty Wednesday to a single count of conspiracy to commit visa
fraud, a relatively minor charge compared with those included in a federal grand
jury indictment handed down against him last year: importing and harboring
immigrants imported for immoral purposes, travel to engage in a sexual act with
a juvenile, transporting illegal immigrants among others.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan refused to say Wednesday why the
government dropped all those other charges in return for Lakireddy's guilty plea
to the one visa fraud count.

Lakireddy's attorney, George Cotsirilos, also wouldn't discuss it. And Lakireddy
himself said only, "I love my friends; I love my family; I love my country."

So it's unclear whether Wednesday's deal was related to revelations in late 2001
and early this year that a Telugu-language interpreter encouraged the family's
victims to embellish their stories. Another interpreter was accused of bias
after writing a letter urging a judge to impose a harsh sentence on Lakireddy's
father.

Vijay Lakireddy's plea bargain does not affect charges still pending against his
older brother, Prasad Lakireddy, 44, under the same 2001 indictment. Prasad
Lakireddy and his attorney, Paul Wolf, were in court but wouldn't comment
Wednesday. Asked whether plea bargain talks are under way with Prasad Lakireddy,
Corrigan replied, "Not as yet."

Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy are sons of Berkeley landlord and businessman
Lakireddy Bali Reddy, 65, who pleaded guilty last year to two counts of
importing minors for immoral sexual purposes and one count each of tax fraud and
conspiracy to commit immigration fraud. Reddy is now serving an eight-year,
one-month prison sentence.

Reddy and Vijay Lakireddy first were indicted early in 2000, accused of having
Venkateswara Vemireddy pose as the father of two sisters to bring them into the
country using temporary visas fraudulently obtained through Lakireddy's tech
business.

The elder sister died in November 1999 of carbon monoxide poisoning after a
heater in her Berkeley apartment malfunctioned. Prosecutors said these girls and
others brought here by similar means were used by Reddy as workers at his and
his family's businesses, and for his own sexual gratification.

Prosecutors replaced the indictment with a raft of fewer and lesser charges in
late 2000 as a prelude to plea bargains. Also charged at that time were Prasad
Lakireddy as well as Reddy's brother and sister-in-law, Jayaprakash and
Annapurna Lakireddy.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy each pleaded guilty last year to one count
of conspiracy to commit immigration fraud. They were sentenced in April, he to a
year and a day in a halfway house and a $30,000 fine, she to six months of home
detention and a $2,000 fine.

When Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy refused to plead guilty, prosecutors last year
obtained a new 21-count indictment against them. But on Wednesday, prosecutors
replaced the charges against Vijay with the single visa fraud count, to which he
promptly pleaded guilty.

That count is punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
Under the terms of his deal, Lakireddy would serve two years in prison and pay
no fine. He would be deemed jointly liable for the $2 million in restitution his
father already has paid to victims of the scheme.

By pleading guilty, Lakireddy admitted he signed a visa application for
Vemireddy so he could bring the two girls into the country, knowing the girls
would end up "under the control of the defendant's father... and other family
members," Corrigan said Wednesday.

Lakireddy knew it was "reasonably foreseeable that the girls' services would be
retained through coercion," the prosecutor said. He added the girls were
particularly vulnerable because they were so young, they were members of a low
social caste in India and they spoke no English, all of which meant they had to
depend on Reddy and his family to survive.

The case has drawn attention from some East Bay residents who believe the
government pulled its punches against the family because they're wealthy and
because the victims were young foreign women. Several protesters attended
Wednesday's court session, and promised to flood Wilken with letters urging a
stiffer sentence for Vijay Lakireddy, just as they did when his father was about
to be sentenced.

"I'm just disgusted," said Diana Russell, a Mills College professor who helped
found a group called Women Against Sexual Slavery based on this case.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              114 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              June 28, 2002 Friday

Valencia given life for Hillsborough murder

BYLINE: By Susanne Hilty, Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY


Ciriaco Cuaro Valencia was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility
of parole Thursday for the savage first-degree murder of a 59-year-old
Hillsborough grandmother.

"Sir, you will die in prison," said San Mateo County Superior Court Judge Robert
Foiles as he sentenced the 26-year-old Valencia for the killing and special
circumstances of robbing, kidnaping, sodomizing and raping Sharon Leuenberger in
her home on March 2, 1998.

Foiles expressed disappointment that he couldn't sentence Valencia to death for
his acts of "horrible cruelty, violence, and extreme viciousness." Leuenberger's
husband of 34 years, Hans, spoke at the sentencing, and said Valencia deserved
nothing less than life in prison.

"Valencia deserves nothing other than to be treated in the very same manner as
he treated his helpless victim. Perverts like him should be swiftly eliminated
and not populate this earth," Leuenberger said.

Leuenberger also said he hoped politicians and business owners who "condone" or
close their eyes to illegal immigration would pay attention to this case, saying
that Valencia is an illegal immigrant who worked as a day laborer in San Mateo,
and was hired through a cleaning business to work in the Leuenberger home in the
weeks prior to the murder.

Foiles echoed Leuenberger's statements on immigration and said he was disturbed
by the "wide open" border which meant "every trusting American must close and
double-latch their doors."

Christine Austin-Walker also read a statement from Leuenberger's daughter,
Heidi, who was unable to attend the sentencing.

"He has taken away all of my good memories and replaced them with the perverted,
horrific scenes I have in my head," Leuenberger's daughter wrote.

Both Leuenberger and Deputy District Attorney Elizabeth Raffaelli said they were
pleased with the sentence, which was required by law because of the special
circumstances surrounding the murder, and were pleasantly surprised by the
vehemence of the judge's comments.

Leuenberger's body was found in a burned-out abandoned van in San Francisco's
Mission District the day after she disappeared, and her family was called by
someone requesting ransom for her return.

Valencia, prosecutors said, had stolen the van from his former employer -- the
man who owned the cleaning service that had been hired by Leuenberger earlier
that year.

Leuenberger died of asphyxiation from having layer upon layer of duct tape
wrapped around her head.

Valencia's semen was found on Leunberger, and much physical evidence indicated
that she had been sexually violated multiple times.

Valencia was convicted by a jury of the murder, the special circumstances and
auto theft last Month. He was also ordered to pay more than $40,000 in
restitution.

"I think justice has been served. This man will never get out and that is
justice," Foiles said, as round of applause broke out from Leuenberger's friends
and family.

Susanne Hilty can be reached at 306-2428 or via e-mail: shilty@angnewspapers.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              115 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 26, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUNDREDS BACK RESIDENCY FOR FAMILIES IN U.S. ILLEGALLY S.J. MARCHERS DEMAND
RIGHTS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 642 words


Just 17 years old, Claudia Avila-Martin already has a long personal history
marching for immigrant rights. But this time was different.

On Saturday, the Santa Clara University freshman, whose activist mom has hauled
her to rallies for years, took part on her own. She joined hundreds of others
demanding social justice for immigrants at the second annual March for Unity and
Legalization in San Jose.

The march, which culminated in a rally at Plaza de Cesar Chavez downtown,
brought together members of community, labor and religious groups that support
giving legal residency to immigrant families living illegally in the United
States.

While many immigrants have lived in this country for years, speakers said at the
rally, they fear deportation because of their immigration status.

"I think illegal immigrants are exploited in many ways," said Avila-Martin, who
first protested with her mother against Proposition 187, which sought to deny
benefits to undocumented immigrants in California. "They pay taxes. They have an
American dream."

The legalization movement has gained momentum since the first unity march in San
Jose, said Lisa Castellanos of Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.
She said more people have become involved since the AFL-CIO reversed position
last year and came out against sanctions for employers who hire undocumented
workers.

During the noisy two-mile journey from Sacred Heart Church to downtown,
residents came out on their porches to watch. They heard chants such as si, se
puede -- "yes, we can" -- and saw marchers carrying signs with slogans such as
"Family Unity, Dignity" and "Reward Hard Work, End Fear at Work."

Alicia Julian, 84, leaned into her chain link fence. "I don't blame them," she
said. "Everyone has the right to have the things they need."

Other services sought

Speakers at the rally demanded such rights as driver's licenses and Social
Security along with legalization. A bill that would allow undocumented workers
to get licenses is pending before the California Legislature.

Several Department of Motor Vehicle employees, who watched from a field office
on Alma Street, expressed sympathy for the marchers.

"As a citizen, I think legalization makes sense because they are going to come
here anyway out of a need to survive," said Rick Jaime. Immigrants provide a
valuable service to society by taking jobs that many citizens wouldn't want, he
said.

Since California stopped giving undocumented people driver's licenses in 1993,
some have resorted to fraud because they need licenses to get to work to support
their families, said Becky Flores.

"They're caught in the middle and it's really sad," she said.

White House support

President Bush is pushing an effort to confer legal status on millions of
undocumented Mexican immigrants. He and Mexican President Vincente Fox have
discussed the possibility of a guest worker program that would give undocumented
workers legal protections. But critics oppose any program modeled on the bracero
program that operated from 1942 to 1964 because they say it allowed abuses of
workers.

San Jose resident Stan Freske, who paused to watch the procession, said he
supports a guest worker program because undocumented workers are too easily
exploited by employers. As to blanket legalization, he said, "this is a
complicated issue. I cannot take a position until there is a specific proposal
to judge."

Maria Loja, who spoke passionately during the rally at the park, said an
estimated 11 million undocumented people are living in the United States.

"Current immigration policies create conditions for exploitation and
discrimination on the job, divide families and hold us back from full political
participation," she said. "We want a program of permanent legalization so one
day soon we can become citizens."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Ricardo Rodriquez, 7, left, Jessica Zunija, 18, center, and Airihua Fairez, 45,
join hundreds of marchers in San Jose on Saturday.
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
The second annual March for Unity and Legalization in San Jose led to a rally at
Plaza de Cesar Chavez for groups supporting legal residency for immigrant
families living illegally in the United States.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 31, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACTIVISTS CAMPAIGN FOR IMMIGRANT AMNESTY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Union activists and others advocating amnesty for illegal immigrants gathered
outside a supermarket Thursday as part of a swelling public relations campaign
aimed at influencing upcoming immigration talks between President Bush and
Mexican President Vicente Fox.

Participants, armed with a new study from the University of California-Los
Angeles lauding the economic benefits of illegal-immigrant labor, called on the
Bush administration to back the sweeping amnesty that Fox is seeking. The two
leaders are to meet in Washington next week in an effort to craft a bilateral
immigration policy.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 28, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARRESTS AT CALIFORNIA BORDER DROP AFTER TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 24A

LENGTH: 725 words


Beefed-up security after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks has led to a dramatic
drop in the number of drug seizures and illegal immigrants apprehended at the
California border.

The number of illegal immigrants apprehended at the state's five ports of entry
from Mexico has plunged 75 percent, from about 1,200 a week to about300, said
Lauren Mack, a U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service official in San Diego
County. "It's just amazing how much it has dropped."

Officials are especially relieved to be seeing fewer cases of illegal immigrants
hidden in modified vehicles, which had become a growing problem until the
crackdown.

"Before Sept. 11 -- before our world changed -- we had been experiencing an
alarming trend where smugglers were taking some pretty severe risks with
migrants by placing them in gas tanks or vehicle engines," Mack said. "It's
quite bizarre. . . . It's a miracle to us that we haven't found anyone dead."

Since the terrorist attacks, however, the 10 to 15 such cases a week that were
reported at the five entry points have fallen to one or two a week, she said.

Seizures of marijuana, heroin and other drugs also have fallen off
significantly, said Vincent Bond, a U.S. Customs Service official.

From Sept. 11 through Sept. 23, authorities made 54 drug seizures at the five
California entry points, collecting 4,179 pounds of drugs, he said. By contrast,
they made 144 seizures totaling 29,388 pounds during the same period a year ago.

"It's a huge difference," Bond said. He noted that authorities think many of the
drugs that typically would be coming to this country were stored in Mexico just
after security was increased at the border. But, he said, "we're starting to see
a slow re-emergence of drug smuggling."

Federal officials say they are prohibited from discussing how many inspectors
they have added to the border, or giving details about how they spot terrorists.
But Bond acknowledged that border checks had become far more involved than they
used to be.

"We're looking under a lot of hoods and trunks and back seats, poking and
probing," he said.

The added border security, however, has been tough on a lot of travelers.

Just as airline passengers have run into big delays at airports since the Sept.
11 attacks, people trying to get into this country by crossing the
California-Mexico border are encountering long waits, too.

In the weeks before the attacks, the typical wait at the border was about 20
minutes, Bond said. Now, it's closer to 75 minutes.

As a result, authorities say, many people are simply not traveling or are flying
into the country to avoid the border checkpoints.

At California's busiest port of entry, in San Ysidro, about 52,000 vehicles
would cross into the United States on a typical day, Bond said. That's down by
half now, although the volume of traffic has begun to inch back up in recent
days.

To avoid those delays, more travelers are using less-busy ports of entry, such
as the one at Tecate. But that has increased the length of waits there, too.
Some travelers have taken to walking across the border, hoping to catch a bus or
other ride farther into the United States. Others are riding bikes.

Before the border crackdown, officials would see about a dozen people biking
across the San Ysidro port per day. Now, they say, that number ranges from 500
to 1,500.

The slackening of border traffic has hurt many California businesses just this
side of the border. They depend heavily on Mexican tourists and immigrants for
their livelihood.

"The last two weeks for the whole community, business has been down between 30
and 50 percent," said Berenice Trickett, president of the San Ysidro Chamber of
Commerce, adding that "60 percent of our community's business is derived from
people coming over the border." Although business has begun to pick up again in
the past few days, she said, "it's been no fun."

Some Mexicans trying to get back into their own country also are finding things
tougher at the border. Mexican authorities are now requiring citizens to have
proper identification to return to Mexico, said Bernardo Mendez, a Mexican
Consulate official in San Francisco.

"It won't be as easy as before for a Mexican who just says, 'I'm Mexican, I want
to go into Mexico,' " he said. "Now, you have to prove you are Mexican."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ATTACK ON AMERCIA
SPECIAL REPORT

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 17, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AIRLINES MAY NOT ACCEPT MEXICAN VOTING CARD AS ID

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 380 words


Q
I know someone who wants to fly from San Jose to Atlanta. He's an undocumented
immigrant. The only form of ID he has is his Mexican voter's registration card.
Is this a valid form of ID to fly?
A.E.
San Jose
A
It's very, very doubtful, says Rich Dressler, San Jose International Airport
spokesman. The Federal Aviation Administration's new security measures require a
passenger to have a government-issued ID (federal, state or local) to board a
plane. Dressler says your friend should call the airline and explain his
identification to be certain about whether it will be sufficient. After the
Sept. 11 terror attacks, flying has become a privilege.

Missed ceremony

Q
I was scheduled to appear for the swearing-in ceremony for naturalization at
12:30 p.m. at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in San Francisco
on Sept. 11. Of course, that ceremony was postponed. A note on the door stated
candidates would be notified about a new date. On Sept. 29, I received a letter
from the INS stating that I was scheduled to appear for an oath ceremony on
Sept. 25 and failed to appear. I never was told about that Sept. 25 date. I need
your help to contact the INS to clarify this big misunderstanding.

Folauholakimuli Mau
Redwood City
A
Congratulations, you were sworn in as a new citizen on Oct. 11 in ceremonies in
San Francisco. INS officials quickly added you to the Oct. 11 list after we
contacted the agency.

Recall: booster seats

Safety 1st is recalling for repair 1.5 million folding booster seats because the
top half of the seat inserts can separate, allowing a small child to fall and
get hurt.

Only Safety 1st "Fold-Up Booster Seats" with model numbers 173, 173A and 173B
are included in this recall. The model number is on the seat back, inside the
left arm panel.

The plastic booster seat is green, has red arms and includes a yellow feeding
tray. The seat insert is made of two halves fitted together and has a smooth
bottom with "SAFETY 1ST" on both sides.

Stores nationwide sold these seats from January 1994 through August 1999 for
about $18.

For a free repair kit, contact Safety 1st at (888) 579-1730 from 6 a.m. to 2
p.m. Pacific time Monday through Friday or go to the firm's Web site at
www.safety1st.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACTION LINE

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 25, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

7 MILLION IMMIGRANTS ARE IN U.S. ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The number of illegal immigrants in the United States is at least 7 million and
possibly as high as 8 million, according to new figures from the 2000 census
that offer a significantly larger count than previous estimates.

The new number shows that the nation's total number of undocumented immigrants
has at least doubled since 1990, as millions of people arrived -- mainly from
Mexico and Central America -- to fill jobs in the booming economy of the past
decade. The previous estimate from census officials for the undocumented
population was 6 million.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 6, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW WARINESS TOWARD FOREIGNERS RECASTS DEBATE ABOUT IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1050 words


With President Bush and a growing parade of congressmen vowing to monitor
international students and hunt down foreigners in the country illegally, it is
becoming clearer every day that the immigration debate has shifted dramatically
since Sept. 11.

Just two months ago, Bush was hinting at amnesty for millions of illegal aliens
and giving anti-immigration groups a headache.

Now Americans are casting a wary eye on foreigners. And groups that want to
restrict immigration are suddenly seeing their once-unpopular ideas -- increased
border patrols, tamper-proof visas -- embraced at the highest levels of
government.

"This is a real opportunity," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which has been pushing for tighter immigration
controls for years.

Pro-immigration groups insist the broader immigration issues -- whether to
legalize undocumented immigrants or tighten immigration numbers -- have not been
affected by the current events.

But signs abound of Washington's new attitude toward foreigners.

Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California has proposed the most
far-reaching package of immigration reforms so far. Her bill would create a
centralized database of visa holders and other non-U.S. citizens, pay for
"SmartVisa" cards encoded with iris images, palm prints and digitized photos,
and halt student visas from countries on the government's list of
terrorist-sponsoring states.

Co-sponsored by Arizona Republican Jon Kyl, the bill would affect hundreds of
millions of foreign travelers and international students.

"Our borders have become a sieve, creating ample opportunities for terrorists to
enter and establish their operations without detection," Feinstein told
reporters last week.

Bush, speaking at the inaugural meeting of his Homeland Security Council, also
targeted student visas. Administration officials say he favors a system in which
students' movements in the country would be monitored with the help of a huge
electronic visa database.

Other lawmakers are talking about abolishing the visa lottery program -- also
known as the "green card lottery"-- which doles out 55,000 permanent residence
visas to countries with low immigration rates.

Still others want to add agents along the vast and mostly unprotected Canadian
border. Just 334 Immigration and Naturalization Service agents patrol the
3,728-mile northern border, crossed annually by 100 million people.

Many of the proposals echo recommendations made by anti-immigration groups
immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, illustrating the new influence those
organizations now wield in Washington.

"I think there's no question those groups have gained an immediate credibility,"
said James Gimpel, a University of Maryland professor who has written
extensively about immigration. "Their proposals make sense in a way they didn't
two months before."

Washington's sudden embrace of immigration reform is perhaps best illustrated by
the new popularity of Rep. Tom Tancredo, a Republican from Colorado. His
immigration reform caucus has added about 15 lawmakers to its roster since Sept.
11. And Tancredo was recently invited to a meeting with House Speaker Dennis
Hastert, something he had begged for many times before the attacks, to no avail.

Some of Tancredo's proposals -- such as a six-month moratorium on all visas--
probably have little support. But many of his ideas, such as adding digital
photos and fingerprints to visas, are likely to be adopted.

Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said he expects the new
national mood will help several immigration reform candidates get elected in the
next congressional elections.

For a long time, Krikorian said, "we had come to view the borders as an
irritant" that travelers and business people needed to overcome," and Congress
-- by commission or omission -- acted to weaken them, he added. "That seems to
have changed."

But pro-immigration organizations insist they are not ready to surrender. On the
contrary, many insist the debate in Washington has actually hewed to a moderate
center.

Some groups, for example, have been calling for new limits on the number of
immigrants allowed in each year, but that idea hasn't gained much support.

"The anti-immigration groups have been tweaking their agendas to try to see how
far they can go, to see if they can strike while the iron is hot," said Doug
Rivlin of the National Immigration Forum. "But the politicians on this issue
have made those people look increasingly isolated. The moderate members have
been saying, 'Don't overreact.' "

Bush's consistent pleas for tolerance have helped set a moderate tone. And a
strong national feeling of unity since the attacks has stanched a widespread
anti-immigrant backlash, said Josh Bernstein, senior policy analyst with the
National Immigration Law Center, which promotes the rights of low-income
immigrants.

"There is a recognition that we're all in this together, and that unity includes
immigrants," Bernstein said.

Before the attacks, pro-immigration groups were optimistic that Bush would
continue a shift toward more liberal immigration policies. Among the ideas being
discussed was legalizing more than 3 million undocumented Mexicans living in the
United States.

Krikorian said opposition to that idea "has intensified" and that "there is no
real possibility it can pass."

"Granting legal status to those living here illegally strikes me as ridiculous
at this point," Krikorian said.

But pro-immigration groups hope that proposal won't fall victim to the current
effort to root out terrorists.

Rivlin said the Bush administration has kept up a dialogue with Mexico and told
Mexican President Vicente Fox recently, "Don't go away." Much will depend,
Rivlin said, on public sentiment next year.

Gimpel believes the United States' history as a nation of immigrants will
prevent it from completely shutting down its borders. He foresees a country that
is still welcoming, but with far more tightly regulated borders.

"I think people still have this romantic notion of America as a place where
people can come and be successful," he said. "Well now, we'll update that and
say it's also a place where their backgrounds have to be checked first."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOE MARQUETTE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Bush reportedly favors a system under which foreign students would be
tracked through a huge electronic visa database.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 7, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THREE BODIES FOUND IN BORDER CANAL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


The bodies of three suspected illegal immigrants from Asia were pulled from an
agricultural canal that runs along the U.S.-Mexico border.

The discovery surprised officials in the region, where the vast majority of
illegal immigrants who cross the area are from Mexico.

Border Patrol agents found the bodies Monday and Tuesday along a stretch of the
All-American Canal, about 150 miles east of San Diego.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 16, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SLOW GOING AT TIGHTENED MEXICAN BORDER;
BOOSTED SECURITY IN THE AFTERMATH OF SEPT. 11 POSES CHALLENGE FOR FAMILIES,
SHOPS, LABORERS

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY, Mercury News, and Claudia S. Melendez,, Nuevo Mundo

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1623 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Edward Rivera paces anxiously through the courtyard and hallways at Casa del
Migrante, a shelter for immigrants here, wondering how he will get back to his
girlfriend and five children in Los Angeles.

Deported from the United States three weeks ago, Rivera feels trapped behind a
new wall of security that authorities have thrown up along the U.S.-Mexico
border since Sept. 11.

Border guards are scrutinizing people so closely at the legal checkpoints that
it now seems all but impossible to sneak through. And smugglers, who would
normally ferry immigrants through less-patrolled areas, have doubled their fees
to account for the increased risk.

"I just need to get back and see my family," said Rivera, 33. "But people don't
realize how hard it is now. My girlfriend and mom, they told me just to wait."

The tightening of America's borders -- intended to head off terrorism -- is
having the most dramatic effect on illegal immigration since Operation
Gatekeeper erected a 47-mile steel wall along the Mexican border seven years
ago.

And nowhere has the impact been more dramatic than in California, which has the
nation's largest population of illegal immigrants, extraordinarily close ties
with Mexico and enormous dependence on immigrant workers who perform a wide
array of crucial, low-wage jobs.

Illegal immigration from Mexico -- traditionally low this time of year -- has
plunged since September. Undocumented immigrants already settled in California
have canceled holiday trips back to families in Mexico, fearful they won't be
able to cross back into the United States.

And legal border crossings have become hours-long ordeals, disrupting thedaily
lives of thousands of workers who need to cross for jobs and turning
once-vibrant border shopping areas into ghost towns.

"A lot of people are having to change their lifestyles because of this," said
John Currie, who helps immigrants process paperwork at an office just 100 yards
north of the border.

Fewer illegal entrants

By far the biggest effect has been on illegal immigration. The number of
undocumented immigrants coming across the United States' southern border has
plummeted, officials say.

In the wide stretches of Southwest desert favored by immigrants in recent years,
the Border Patrol says it is catching 50 percent fewer illegal crossers than it
did last year.

And at San Ysidro, the entry point south of San Diego and the world's busiest
border crossing, the number of non-U.S. citizens caught trying to sneak through
is down 80 percent since Sept. 11.

In years past, identification checks at the border were spotty, and agents used
their discretion to decide whether to search a car or pedestrian. Smugglers used
to exploit the heavy traffic at San Ysidro and smuggle through thousands of
immigrants every year, in car trunks, concealed in dashboards and even sewn into
the upholstery of vans.

But now everyone wanting to cross the border must show a government-issued photo
ID, and car searches are far more common. The extra measures appear to have
scared off thousands who once used San Ysidro as an illegal back door into the
United States.

On a recent weekday, a normally busy inspection area where agents pull stowaways
out of trunks and other hiding places, is nearly empty. Upstairs, the processing
room used to detain illegal crossers is a sea of empty plastic chairs. The
steel-doored holding cells hold just one person.

Although the decline in traffic has been evident for several months now,
immigration officials still seem stunned that so few people appear to be trying
to cross illegally.

"This entire room would be packed wall-to-wall with women, children, babies,"
said Immigration and Naturalization Service spokeswoman Lauren Mack, sweeping
her arm across the detention area.

Shelters see drop-off

Along the border, shelters that serve immigrants say they too have seen a
drop-off.

The bunk beds at Casa Madre Asunta in Tijuana, which caters to women and
children, are nearly empty these days, and quiet pervades the warm and welcoming
shelter. On a recent weekday, just two women were staying there with their
children; typically about a dozen families would seek shelter there this time of
year.

"We've had only a few women come in the last two months," said Sister Aparecida
Chavez, the shelter's director. "Compared with last year, it is way, way down."

The heightened security measures have also had a major effect on legal border
traffic. Faced with border crossing lines that at times stretched to four hours,
American tourists have all but abandoned Tijuana. And Mexican citizens have
dramatically scaled back their once-frequent shopping trips in the United
States.

Restaurants along Tijuana's Avenida Revolucion, famous for drawing American
teenagers, no longer play loud music and strident whistles to attract customers.
There are too few customers to entice, and the festive atmosphere of this
once-lively area is all but gone.

After having a shop in an alley off Avenida Revolucion for nine years, Juan
Manuel Canizales has decided it is time to pack and go. His sales averaged
$3,000 a week before the attacks; these days they barely reach $500.

"I haven't paid the electricity or the phone bill," he said. "With the rent I
have to pay, if I only sell about $30 or $40 a day, it is not worth being open."

On the U.S. side, businesses have been hit so hard that some are calling for
federal disaster aid.

A San Ysidro outlet mall just one mile from the border that normally caters to
Mexican shoppers was nearly deserted one recent morning.

"Business has dropped off 50 percent," said Omar Royal, assistant manager at
KayBee Toy Store. "We never thought it would dry up that much. We've tried
mailings and everything, but if people can't get across the border, then it
doesn't really matter."

Few believe the drop-off in illegal immigration is permanent. Although INS
officials expect the new security measures to remain in place, Mexico's
recession and relatively low wages will keep strong northward pressure on the
border.

"Consider that on both sides of the border you have labor needs and agribusiness
pushing for undocumented workers and a lack of job opportunities in Mexico, and
I think we'll see a return to more normal patterns," said Alan Kessler, a fellow
at the Center of Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of
California-San Diego.

Many observers believe the clamp-down at the legal checkpoints will merely
create a larger market for smugglers adept at creating phony travel documents.
Other migrants will turn to less-expensive desert and mountain crossings,
accelerating a trend that began when the United States sealed off its urban
areas to illegal entrants with a steel wall in the 1990s.

"It's a strategy of moving people out of the urban areas into the ever-more
dangerous desert areas," said Claudia Smith, who runs the Border Project for the
San Francisco-based California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation.

For many illegal immigrants, the high fees that smugglers are charging these
days have become prohibitive.

Victor Manuel Torres, 56, traveled 2,000 miles to the border town of Tecate
several weeks ago, hoping it would be a gateway to a better life. Earning just
$3 a day in Chiapas, he could no longer feed his wife and three children.

With no money to pay a smuggler, he tried to cross the border alone. But he was
caught in his first attempt. Defeated, Torres now searches for a way to raise
bus fare back to Chiapas.

"Now I just want to go back," Torres said.

But while some have given up, many other Mexicans and Central and South
Americans believe the new security will merely postpone their inevitable trek
into the United States. For them, the desire for a better life in America
outweighs the new security risks.

Many plan to try again

Nearly all of the Mexicans interviewed in shelters along the California-Mexico
border said they would keep trying to enter the United States, even though many
have already been caught on previous attempts.

Although he is a Mexican citizen, Rivera was raised in America, and in Mexico he
feels like a stranger. In Los Angeles, he had a well-paying job with a trucking
company and a boss who accepted that he was not a legal resident.

"It's impossible for me to raise kids here, to feed them, to care for them,"
said Rivera, 33, who was deported after police discovered he had neither
citizenship papers nor a valid visa. "The wages here are not even half what they
are in America."

After walking for three days and two nights, Juan Carlos Alvarado Franco had
reached Jamul, 20 miles east of San Diego, when he was caught by the Border
Patrol recently. He still has sores on his feet from the fruitless trek, but
says he's going to try to go back as soon as he can.

"I want to cross, and I will cross," he says in Spanish. "I lost everything I
had over there: my job, my apartment, my car. But over there you earn in a day
what you get here in a week."

Hundreds of miles away in the Bay Area, undocumented immigrants here also are
casting a wary eye at the border changes.

This is the time of year when many Mexican citizens head back to their homeland
to spend the holidays with their families. But for those without the proper
paperwork, the thought of trying to get back into the United States these days
is intimidating.

Alejandro Leon, a 43-year-old day laborer in East San Jose, has not seen his
family in seven months. Usually at this time of year, he would be on his way
back to Mexico to visit his wife and three children.

"But this year I don't think I'm going back," he said. "Everybody fears we could
be a target."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (5), Map;
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
A Border Patrol agent waves on a bicyclist at San Ysidro. A growing number of
crossers are trading cars for bikes in hopes of avoiding the long waits spurred
by tighter checkpoint security since Sept. 11.
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Lines of cars stretch for miles at the San Ysidro checkpoint, where stepped up
security by the Border Patrol since Sept. 11 has resulted in hours-long lines
for those entering the United States from Mexico.
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
The United States, as viewed through a hole in the fence that marks the border
in Tecate, Mexico.
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
With fewer tourists heading to Tijuana in the wake of tighter border security
since Sept. 11, some shops along the city's once-thriving Avenida Revolucion
have had to close their doors.
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Nuns prepare to serve menudo at a shelter in Tecate, Mexico. Many shelters along
the border that care for immigrants say there's been a drop-off since Sept. 11.
MAP: [California and Mexico coast]

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 21, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

30 AIRPORT WORKERS FACING INS CHARGES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND


Federal immigration agents arrested 30 employees at Portland International
Airport on Thursday on charges of using fake documents to get their jobs.

Of 2,159 employees screened by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 124
were found to be working illegally, said Anthony Ho, special agent in charge of
INS investigations.

Ninety had committed some kind of immigration violation; those arrested were the
most serious offenders, he said.

The 30 workers were responsible for baggage handling and loading, construction,
and food and janitorial services. None of those arrested worked in secure areas,
but many had badges allowing them into sensitive areas, Ho said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 30, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AID BUNDLES LEFT FOR IMMIGRANTS;
ACTIVISTS SETTING UP STATIONS NEAR BORDER

BYLINE: BEN FOX, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: ALPINE


Activists stocked emergency cold weather packages Saturday in a mountainous area
of Southern California where at least 11 illegal immigrants have died in the
past three years while trudging through snow to enter the United States.

The aid packages, which contain blankets, sleeping bags, food and drinks, are
the cold-weather equivalent of the emergency water stations the same activists
began installing in the desert two years ago in response to a rising death toll
among illegal border crossers.

"We know it's not the answer. It's not going to solve everything," said Enrique
Morones, one of the volunteers behind the effort. "But we have to do something."

The volunteers collected donated goods and installed the first six aid stations
in the mountains of the Cleveland National Forest, about 30 miles east of San
Diego, two weeks ago. Each has a bright blue flag and a small battery-powered
red light to mark the site at night.

While adding more blankets and food Saturday, Morones and John Hunter, another
volunteer behind the effort, said they plan to have up to 25 winter stations in
place by the end of February.

The U.S. Border Patrol is aware of the winter stations, but will neither endorse
nor criticize them, said agent Raleigh Leonard, a spokesman for the agency in
San Diego.

"We're just remaining neutral," Leonard said. "We don't want to give the
immigrants a false sense of security by saying it's safe to cross."

Border Patrol officials have confronted the issue before. Hunter, Morones and
other volunteers set up several hundred water stations in the desert of Southern
California, and activists in Arizona later did the same. Agents agreed not to
remove the water or to stake it out to catch migrants.

The effectiveness of the efforts is impossible to gauge. Volunteers have said
there is evidence that people have used the water stations. Still, 322 illegal
immigrants died last year along the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, most from
exposure or drowning, according to the Border Patrol.

In the mountains east of San Diego, the main risk has been cold. Three people
froze to death during a storm in the area last year; eight perished in 1999.

The Border Patrol, which has created special search-and-rescue teams in response
to the deaths, has saved dozens of immigrants caught trekking through the snow
in jeans, T-shirts and sneakers.

Migrants cross there to avoid the intense Border Patrol presence established
around urban San Diego as a result of Operation Gatekeeper in October 1994.

Morones, a former executive with the San Diego Padres baseball team and a
Democratic activist, blames Gatekeeper and U.S. immigration policy for the
deaths.

Hunter, a Republican business owner, doesn't question the government's desire to
seal its border but wants measures taken to stop the deaths.

"I support the concept of Gatekeeper," he said. "But I think you need to be kind
to those people who come across."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: FRED GREAVES -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Enrique Morones adds supplies to a cold-weather aid station to help illegal
immigrants.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  January 4, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BRIGHT STUDENTS GET THEIR CHANCE;
THANKS TO LEGISLATURE AND DAVIS, UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS CAN QUALIFY FOR LOWER
CAL STATE TUITION
UC REGENTS SHOULD DO THE SAME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 302 words


CALIFORNIA has thousands of young undocumented immigrants who've lived here for
years, become part of our communities and excelled in the classroom.

But because they've lacked immigration papers, their dreams of becoming doctors,
teachers and other professionals have gone unfulfilled. Blame goes to hefty
tuition bills.

Beginning this month, though, these bright kids will qualify for resident
tuition at the Cal State universities and community colleges even when the
students are undocumented immigrants.

These are welcome and overdue reforms, passed by the Legislature and signed into
law by Gov. Gray Davis. Yet the changes don't go far enough.

They don't cover the University of California system. Only the UC board of
regents has the power to extend the tuition breaks to its campuses. The regents
should do just that at their January meeting.

There's no reason to delay. The eligibility rules at Cal State and the community
colleges provide a model that the regents could quickly and easily adopt.

To qualify, students need to be graduates of California high schools and have
attended California high schools for at least three years. They must start
college within a year of high school graduation. Students also must be pursuing
legal residency.

These strict requirements will make sure that only children of families with
deep roots in the state will benefit.

Every year only a few hundred incoming students probably will be eligible for
the lower fees at the UC's eight undergraduate campuses. Nonetheless, the
tuition deferential is substantial to students from poor families. UC charges
residents about $2,700 per year but more than $10,000 for non-residents.

Those extra dollars for too long have denied some hard-working students in
California a UC education.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 29, 2002 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP HOPEFULS TRY LESS-DIVISIVE TACK IN EFFORT TO ATTRACT WOMEN, LATINOS;
HARSH RHETORIC ON IMMIGRATION, ABORTION NOW SEEN AS DAMAGING

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1279 words


This spring's Republican primary race for governor marks a major shift for
California's wounded GOP.

Gone are the attacks on illegal immigrants and the cost of educating their kids
that worked for Pete Wilson's 1994 gubernatorial bid. Even opposing abortion
lost its luster as a Republican rallying point after Dan Lungren's epic loss
four years later.

At the heart of the shift is a simple acknowledgment of the demographic and
social changes that began to haunt the Republican Party in the aftermath of
Proposition 187 -- the 1994 initiative that tried to deny government benefits to
illegal immigrants -- and doomed the party's candidates in 1998.

The growth in Latino population portends millions of new voters whom the
anti-immigrant rhetoric could offend. Meanwhile, Republican women, who have been
deserting the party by the thousands, are leery of candidates with hard-line
views against abortion.

The GOP campaign's shift away from divisive social issues is largely a result of
former Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan's status as the front-runner. In a
Field Poll released Monday, 46 percent of likely Republican voters supported
Riordan, compared with 13 percent each for his opponents -- Secretary of State
Bill Jones and wealthy political novice Bill Simon.

A maverick, Riordan has never hewed to the party line. And he is the most
liberal candidate in years to emerge from California's Republican ranks.

GOP women respond

His campaign so far -- particularly his support for a woman's right to abortion,
which pollsters say most California Republicans support -- is almostperfectly in
tune with disaffected Republican women, whose departure has frightened party
officials.

"We need a platform that's going to respect differences of opinion if we're
going to get Republicans elected," Riordan said at last week's San Jose debate.
"I'm against abortion, but I respect a woman's right to make her own decisions."

Riordan's pro-choice stance threatened Gov. Gray Davis enough to spark the first
real confrontation of the campaign. In television ads launched Friday, Davis
attacked Riordan's abortion-rights pedigree by pointing to donations he made to
an anti-abortion group, as well as to candidates opposed to abortion.

"He's scared because Riordan is basically opening up the party to women again,
and thank God for that," said Jillian Manus-Salzman, a Palo Alto literary agent
who has been at odds with the Republican Party over its anti-abortion position.

She joined other members of a Republican women's group called the WISH List,
which ordinarily supports pro-choice female candidates, to endorse Riordan in
San Francisco on Monday. She said it was the first time the group had endorsed a
male candidate.

Even Jones and Simon, the more conservative candidates in the race, have trod
carefully on the hot-button issues for fear of upsetting women voters and
alienating Latinos, the fastest-growing segment of the California electorate.

"It's a difference not so much in ideology as in tone," said Dan Schnur, a
Republican strategist who was Pete Wilson's spokesman. "You have two
conservative candidates in Jones and Simon who have learned the lesson many
Republicans around the state and country have learned: A conservative ideology
doesn't necessarily have to be accompanied by a confrontational, aggressive
personal style."

Both Jones and Simon oppose abortion rights, but only Simon has come out with a
clear anti-abortion position. Jones, who describes himself as "pro-life," points
out that abortion is a federal issue and therefore the governor can't control
it.

Learning from the past

It's a position Lungren's former campaign manager, Dave Puglia, wishes his
candidate had taken.

"In '98 we had intense internal debates, with some of us hoping our candidate
would say the same thing," he said.

Instead, Lungren loudly proclaimed his anti-abortion views. Many now see that as
a key reason for his humiliating defeat, with just 38 percent of the vote.
Puglia commended Jones for learning from Lungren's mistakes.

"Who says Republicans can't learn how to make a common-sense appeal to voters?"
Puglia asked.

On immigration, too, Riordan has run far to the left of his party, while his
opponents have tried to seem conservative without appearing mean.

At the recent debate, Riordan recently proclaimed every child's "God-given right
to have a quality education and quality health care" regardless of whether they
are in this country legally.

Simon, who opposed Proposition 187, and Jones, who supported it, simply
demurred. Both spoke of children, though, not the "illegal aliens" of the
Proposition 187 campaign. Simon spoke of his philanthropic efforts to help the
poor. "We're all sensitive," said Jones, although he later demanded to know how
Riordan would pay the health care costs for illegal immigrants.

Neither candidate came close to employing the fierce rhetoric used in the
Proposition 187 debate. The television campaign waged in support of that
initiative is now widely viewed as a serious mistake for the Republican Party.
While it worked for Pete Wilson, who won re-election, it did long-term damage to
the GOP in the eyes of Latino voters.

"I was very unnerved by 187," said Natalie Cardenas, a 28-year-old Republican
from Campbell, who marched against the measure as a college student in Southern
California, when she was a Democrat. Now a Republican, she hopes the issue will
not resurface.

"My reasons for being a Republican are so much different than that issue," she
said. "I believe in the core values of the Republican Party, smaller
government."

Backlash to 187

The initiative led waves of Latino immigrants who had lived here for years to
become citizens and then to register to vote -- largely for Democrats.

"The long-term prognosis is you need to win Latino votes if you're going to stay
competitive in California," said Bruce Cain, a political scientist at the
University of California-Berkeley. "You can't afford to let Latinos be 80 to 90
percent for the Democrats. That would be death."

Cain was amused to watch Jones -- who early in his career as secretary of state
led an investigation into Latino voter fraud -- announce over and over at the
debate how he had won the endorsement of MAPA, the Mexican American Political
Association.

"If you can't come right out and say, 'I voted against 187,' you can at least
wave your MAPA endorsement," Cain said. How much good the endorsement will do
for Jones isn't clear, though, since the MAPA president later denied it and
backed Riordan and Davis instead.

Party leaders are assuming that Riordan, by far the most popular Republican
candidate, will become their nominee. But California Democrats outnumber
Republicans by about 1.6 million voters. To prevail in a general election, a
candidate must win back the Republican women's vote and lure new Latino voters,
as well as independents and Democrats.

Riordan -- who for now is outpolling Davis by 7 points -- appears to be the
Republicans' best chance. But in a party as divided as the GOP, fielding a
liberal candidate could alienate the hard-core conservatives who have been the
party's stalwarts.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Field Poll results
Republican primary election preferences for governor, among likely voters in
March GOP primary:
Richard Riordan -- 46%
Others/undecided -- 28%
Bill Simon -- 13%
Bill Jones -- 13%
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Trial heat between Gov. Gray Davis and Riordan in the general election, among
likely voters:
Riordan -- 47%
Davis -- 40%
Undecided -- 13%

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2002

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (2);
PHOTO: Riordan
Moderate Republican is leading polls.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Gubernatorial hopefuls Richard Riordan, left, Bill Jones, center, and Bill Simon
hope to win back voters alienated in the 1990s.

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 29, 2002 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP HOPEFULS TRY LESS-DIVISIVE TACK IN EFFORT TO ATTRACT WOMEN, LATINOS;
HARSH RHETORIC ON IMMIGRATION, ABORTION NOW SEEN AS DAMAGING

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1279 words


This spring's Republican primary race for governor marks a major shift for
California's wounded GOP.

Gone are the attacks on illegal immigrants and the cost of educating their kids
that worked for Pete Wilson's 1994 gubernatorial bid. Even opposing abortion
lost its luster as a Republican rallying point after Dan Lungren's epic loss
four years later.

At the heart of the shift is a simple acknowledgment of the demographic and
social changes that began to haunt the Republican Party in the aftermath of
Proposition 187 -- the 1994 initiative that tried to deny government benefits to
illegal immigrants -- and doomed the party's candidates in 1998.

The growth in Latino population portends millions of new voters whom the
anti-immigrant rhetoric could offend. Meanwhile, Republican women, who have been
deserting the party by the thousands, are leery of candidates with hard-line
views against abortion.

The GOP campaign's shift away from divisive social issues is largely a result of
former Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan's status as the front-runner. In a
Field Poll released Monday, 46 percent of likely Republican voters supported
Riordan, compared with 13 percent each for his opponents -- Secretary of State
Bill Jones and wealthy political novice Bill Simon.

A maverick, Riordan has never hewed to the party line. And he is the most
liberal candidate in years to emerge from California's Republican ranks.

GOP women respond

His campaign so far -- particularly his support for a woman's right to abortion,
which pollsters say most California Republicans support -- is almostperfectly in
tune with disaffected Republican women, whose departure has frightened party
officials.

"We need a platform that's going to respect differences of opinion if we're
going to get Republicans elected," Riordan said at last week's San Jose debate.
"I'm against abortion, but I respect a woman's right to make her own decisions."

Riordan's pro-choice stance threatened Gov. Gray Davis enough to spark the first
real confrontation of the campaign. In television ads launched Friday, Davis
attacked Riordan's abortion-rights pedigree by pointing to donations he made to
an anti-abortion group, as well as to candidates opposed to abortion.

"He's scared because Riordan is basically opening up the party to women again,
and thank God for that," said Jillian Manus-Salzman, a Palo Alto literary agent
who has been at odds with the Republican Party over its anti-abortion position.

She joined other members of a Republican women's group called the WISH List,
which ordinarily supports pro-choice female candidates, to endorse Riordan in
San Francisco on Monday. She said it was the first time the group had endorsed a
male candidate.

Even Jones and Simon, the more conservative candidates in the race, have trod
carefully on the hot-button issues for fear of upsetting women voters and
alienating Latinos, the fastest-growing segment of the California electorate.

"It's a difference not so much in ideology as in tone," said Dan Schnur, a
Republican strategist who was Pete Wilson's spokesman. "You have two
conservative candidates in Jones and Simon who have learned the lesson many
Republicans around the state and country have learned: A conservative ideology
doesn't necessarily have to be accompanied by a confrontational, aggressive
personal style."

Both Jones and Simon oppose abortion rights, but only Simon has come out with a
clear anti-abortion position. Jones, who describes himself as "pro-life," points
out that abortion is a federal issue and therefore the governor can't control
it.

Learning from the past

It's a position Lungren's former campaign manager, Dave Puglia, wishes his
candidate had taken.

"In '98 we had intense internal debates, with some of us hoping our candidate
would say the same thing," he said.

Instead, Lungren loudly proclaimed his anti-abortion views. Many now see that as
a key reason for his humiliating defeat, with just 38 percent of the vote.
Puglia commended Jones for learning from Lungren's mistakes.

"Who says Republicans can't learn how to make a common-sense appeal to voters?"
Puglia asked.

On immigration, too, Riordan has run far to the left of his party, while his
opponents have tried to seem conservative without appearing mean.

At the recent debate, Riordan recently proclaimed every child's "God-given right
to have a quality education and quality health care" regardless of whether they
are in this country legally.

Simon, who opposed Proposition 187, and Jones, who supported it, simply
demurred. Both spoke of children, though, not the "illegal aliens" of the
Proposition 187 campaign. Simon spoke of his philanthropic efforts to help the
poor. "We're all sensitive," said Jones, although he later demanded to know how
Riordan would pay the health care costs for illegal immigrants.

Neither candidate came close to employing the fierce rhetoric used in the
Proposition 187 debate. The television campaign waged in support of that
initiative is now widely viewed as a serious mistake for the Republican Party.
While it worked for Pete Wilson, who won re-election, it did long-term damage to
the GOP in the eyes of Latino voters.

"I was very unnerved by 187," said Natalie Cardenas, a 28-year-old Republican
from Campbell, who marched against the measure as a college student in Southern
California, when she was a Democrat. Now a Republican, she hopes the issue will
not resurface.

"My reasons for being a Republican are so much different than that issue," she
said. "I believe in the core values of the Republican Party, smaller
government."

Backlash to 187

The initiative led waves of Latino immigrants who had lived here for years to
become citizens and then to register to vote -- largely for Democrats.

"The long-term prognosis is you need to win Latino votes if you're going to stay
competitive in California," said Bruce Cain, a political scientist at the
University of California-Berkeley. "You can't afford to let Latinos be 80 to 90
percent for the Democrats. That would be death."

Cain was amused to watch Jones -- who early in his career as secretary of state
led an investigation into Latino voter fraud -- announce over and over at the
debate how he had won the endorsement of MAPA, the Mexican American Political
Association.

"If you can't come right out and say, 'I voted against 187,' you can at least
wave your MAPA endorsement," Cain said. How much good the endorsement will do
for Jones isn't clear, though, since the MAPA president later denied it and
backed Riordan and Davis instead.

Party leaders are assuming that Riordan, by far the most popular Republican
candidate, will become their nominee. But California Democrats outnumber
Republicans by about 1.6 million voters. To prevail in a general election, a
candidate must win back the Republican women's vote and lure new Latino voters,
as well as independents and Democrats.

Riordan -- who for now is outpolling Davis by 7 points -- appears to be the
Republicans' best chance. But in a party as divided as the GOP, fielding a
liberal candidate could alienate the hard-core conservatives who have been the
party's stalwarts.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Field Poll results
Republican primary election preferences for governor, among likely voters in
March GOP primary:
Richard Riordan -- 46%
Others/undecided -- 28%
Bill Simon -- 13%
Bill Jones -- 13%
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Trial heat between Gov. Gray Davis and Riordan in the general election, among
likely voters:
Riordan -- 47%
Davis -- 40%
Undecided -- 13%

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2002

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (2);
PHOTO: Riordan
Moderate Republican is leading polls.
PHOTO: PATRICK TEHAN -- MERCURY NEWS ARCHIVES
Gubernatorial hopefuls Richard Riordan, left, Bill Jones, center, and Bill Simon
hope to win back voters alienated in the 1990s.

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 21, 2002 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEWER LATINOS DIE IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE;
AS REASONS FOR THE SIGNIFICANT DROP, A SANTA CLARA COUNTY COMMITTEE CITED
EDUCATION, ENCOURAGING UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS TO REPORT INCIDENTS, AND
ENFORCEMENT.

BYLINE: RODNEY FOO, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 674 words


Domestic violence deaths dropped significantly within the Latino community last
year, according to a report released Wednesday by a Santa Clara County committee
composed of prosecutors, police and social service officials.

Of the 17 deaths in 2001, only one was Latino; the previous year, 11 of the 18
deaths were members of that community.

Improved education within the community, changes in laws that encourage
undocumented immigrants to report domestic violence, and strict enforcement were
cited as factors in the reduction.

"A lot of immigrant women were afraid to call the police for a number of years,"
said Deputy District Attorney Rolanda Pierre Dixon, chairwoman of the county's
domestic violence death review team. "They were afraid they would be deported.
The bottom line is that with the Violence Against Women Act, there are
protections there for those women. They can make the reports."

The effort mirrors one in the year 2000 in the Asian community. In the late
1990s, authorities noticed an increase in the number of domestic violence deaths
in that community and made an effort to bring down those numbers -- an effort
that succeeded.

Overall, the number of domestic violence deaths in the county has remained
fairly consistent over the past three years -- 18 each in 1999 and 2000, 17 in
2001. Those deaths included homicides, suicides and domestic violence suspects
killed by police when they refused to surrender weapons.

From 1994 to 1999, authorities determined, there were 51 such deaths, an average
of 8.5 a year. But those figures are misleading, Pierre Dixon said, because
authorities were not looking closely at people who committed suicide as possible
victims of domestic violence.

"We're doing a better job of collecting the numbers," Pierre Dixon said.

With the increased scrutiny come opportunities to target communities where the
crime may be traditionally high or increasing.

Improved education within the immigrant community has shown people that while
wife battery may be tolerated in some societies, it won't be here, saidEsther
Medina, executive director of the Mexican American Community Services Agency.

The message is also apparently getting through to the batterers, she said.

"I think they realize it's not a little thing anymore," Medina said. "You can
get deported. You can get locked up.

"In a lot of counties, it's not an issue, and people ignore it. But people in
this county are very aware of it, and they're serious about it."

An annual review has been released since 1999. It is used by local authorities
to determine how to focus their strategy against domestic violence, zeroing on
specific groups at risk.

This year, three deaths involved elderly people -- 67, 72 and 83 years old -- an
ominous statistic, Pierre Dixon said.

"We want everyone to realize that domestic violence is not just a young person's
problem," she said. "It also happens to our elderly community. We need to pay
attention to it."

The report says 609 felony complaints for domestic violence crimes were issued
last year. There were 2,956 misdemeanor complaints, a 25 percent increase over
the previous year's number.

"I think changes are being made," Pierre Dixon said. "I certainly see the cases
coming in. . . . People think it's bad news when our numbers continue to go up.
It's good news because that means people are alive and they're reaching out for
help."

But the report also reveals a chilling statistic: Eleven of the 17 who died were
in the process of divorce or separation.

"Leaving is the most dangerous time in a domestic violence relationship," Pierre
Dixon said. "If nothing else, I want people out there to know if you are in a
domestic violence situation and you need to get out of there . . . make a safety
plan to leave.

"Do not announce to a batterer that 'if you do not change your ways in two
weeks, I will be gone.' Because, I can guarantee you, in 13 days, you might be
gone. . . . You cannot ease away from a person who wants to take your life."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHERE TO FIND HELP
* Community Solutions (Spanish and English), (408) 683-4118
* Support Network for Battered Women, (800) 572-2782
* Asian Women's Home, (408) 975-2739
* MAITRI (South Asian languages), (888) 862-4874 or (408) 730-4049
* SAVE: Shelter Against Violent Environments, (510) 794-6055
* National Domestic Violence Hotline, (800) 799-SAFE
* Next Door: Solutions to Domestic Violence (English, Spanish, Vietnamese),
(408) 279-2962
* Sor Juana Ines, (800) 300-1080
* Center For Domestic Violence Prevention, (650) 312-8515
* Narika, (800) 215-7308 or (510) 540-0754
For more resources, visit the Domestic Violence Project of Santa Clara County
Web site (www.growing.com: nonviolent: index.htm).

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    February 27, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Banks make pitch to illegal immigrants;
MORE LENIENT IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS EASE WAY

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words


Victor Pacheco gave up trying to save money because he found it nearly
impossible without a bank account.

"If it's in my pocket, I just want to spend it," said Pacheco, a San Jose
laborer who's lived in the United States illegally for the past two years.

Saving money will be easier now, said Pacheco. He and a friend opened their
first checking accounts last week, taking advantage of more lenient
identification requirements adopted by a handful of U.S. banks.

Thousands of bank accounts have been opened under the new policy since last
winter, when big-name financial institutions like Wells Fargo and Bank of
America agreed to allow Mexican immigrants to use Mexican consulate-issued
identification cards as proof of identity.

The new policy gives the banks access to an untapped market of millions of
undocumented immigrants. Those with new bank accounts no longer need to depend
on check cashing centers and markets, which charge as much as 3 percent of a
check's value. Demand for the accounts also threatens to undercut another
billion-dollar industry -- money transfer services that many Latinos use to wire
money home.

Drawing fire

Meanwhile, the appeal to illegal immigrants has drawn fire from groups that want
stricter enforcement of immigration laws.

Immigrants can now use the consulate photo ID as the primary proof of identity
to open a bank account. A consulate card, commonly known as matricula consular,
identifies its holder as a Mexican national.

They also need a second identification, such as a passport or student card with
photo. Some banks also ask for either a Social Security number, a federal
taxpayer identification number issued by the Internal Revenue Service or a
signed IRS waiver stating the account holder is a non-resident immigrant.

Before, many banks required the primary identification to be U.S.-issued
documents with photos, such as state driver's licenses or passports.

At consulate offices in San Jose and San Francisco, immigrants can sign up for
accounts at Wells Fargo booths in the consulate lobby. Wells Fargo has opened
roughly 1,000 accounts using the card in the month it has been stationed at the
San Jose consulate, said Michael Billeci, Wells Fargo market president for Santa
Clara Valley.

Wells Fargo, which is promoting its acceptance of the card throughout its
branches in 23 states, is the only bank to advertise the program. It's finding
that the program is also reeling Latinos in the country legally into the
financial mainstream. This is the bank's biggest push to attract Latino
customers, said Wells Fargo spokeswoman Miriam Galicia Duarte.

"Not only has the matricula removed obstacles for them as far as identification,
it's increased awareness among this community about how to . . . participate in
the financial system of this country," said Duarte.

Bank of America is finding that demand to use the card has escalated even
without promotion. It rolled out a pilot program in Los Angeles, and demand
prompted the bank to accept the cards at branches in the Central Valley.

Though the banks do not yet have data on the number of accounts that have been
opened using cards, La Opinion, a Spanish-language newspaper in Los Angeles,
recently estimated that $20 million has been deposited in new accounts since the
programs began.

The Mexican consulates in San Jose and San Francisco report spiked demand for
the consular cards. Demand has skyrocketed since Sept. 11 because of security
issues. San Francisco and some cities in Southern California now accept the
cards as valid identification.

The San Jose consulate issued roughly 3,414 cards last month -- more than double
the number in January 2000. Demand for the cards at the San Francisco consulate
has more than tripled since Sept. 11 to about 6,500 cards a month. The
consulates estimate between 20 percent to 40 percent of those getting cards use
them to establish bank accounts.

Immigration reform advocates criticize allowing undocumented immigrants access
to banks as legitimizing illegal immigration. There are at least 8.5 million
illegal immigrants, most from Mexico, living in the United States, according to
Census data. The banks are "condoning and rewarding illegal immigrants for
violating our laws," said Barbara Coe, who runs the California Coalition for
Immigration Reform. "The bottom line for them is greed."

Bank officials, however, say there's nothing illegal about accepting the Mexican
identification.

Won't take advantage

A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Francisco
said the agency won't use the new bank policy to track down illegal immigrants.

It's estimated that as many as 40 million individuals across the country do not
have bank accounts. One in nine families in Santa Clara County doesn't have a
checking account, according to a 2000 Gallup poll. Half of those are Latinos
like Mirella Martinez, who rely on fringe financial services to cash checks and
pay bills. Some Latino immigrants who carry cash or stash it in their homes are
victims of assaults and robberies.

"I will save more now because I know the money is secure at the bank," said
Martinez, who filled out forms to open a bank account while waiting for her card
at the San Jose consulate. "It'll cost less to cash my checks, too."

The new accounts also affect money transfer services like Western Union. Many
Mexican immigrants who've recently opened checking accounts are now sending
relatives their ATM cards. That allows the U.S. residents to bypass the money
transfer services and fees and to obtain better exchange rates, say consulate
officials. Wells Fargo reports some are using the bank's money transfer program
as well. A Western Union spokeswoman said the company welcomes the new
competition.

While community advocates praise the move to give more immigrants access to
financial services, they stress that banks need to help low-income immigrants
gain access to all banking services, not just checking and savings accounts.

"We'd like to see these products lead to other things that will help families
build wealth and asset, like getting mortgage loans, " said Eric Rodriquez of
the National Council of La Raza.

Pacheco, who opened an account with Wells Fargo this week, held the same hopes.
"Now I can start thinking about saving and getting a loan to buy a house," he
said. "We couldn't enjoy that opportunity before."

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 24, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Tighter borders, commerce at odds;
INCREASED SECURITY AT CHECKPOINTS SLOWS FLOW OF TRAFFIC, GOODS

BYLINE: Seth Borenstein and Lenny Savino Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO


In the best of times, the pressure on officers who guard America's borders is
tremendous, contradictory and maddening. Keep contraband, terrorists and illegal
immigrants out. Hurry legitimate trade and travelers through.

But these are not the best of times. A nation that was attacked Sept. 11 by
foreigners is scrambling to prevent future attacks even as more than 500 million
people cross its borders each year.

Technology is outdated. Red tape and overlapping government bureaucracies
complicate matters further. Businesses and politicians lobby for looser
restrictions. New rules take years to enact.

Mistakes happen, such as this month's letter notifying a Florida flight school
that visas for two of the Sept. 11 hijackers had been approved. After that
embarrassing error, the Bush administration proposed an overhaul of U.S. Customs
and the Immigration and Naturalization Service and its Border Patrol.

But increased security could create bottlenecks that affect the nation's
pocketbook. When borders were closed after Sept. 11, for example, U.S. auto
production was nearly stalled because supplies from Canada and Mexico were held
up.

At the world's busiest border crossing, across from Tijuana, Mexico, a
never-ending stream of 50,000 vehicles enters California each day, with cars,
trucks and buses 24 lanes wide funneling into concrete-and-steel inspection
stations. Some days, as many as 35,000 people walk across.

Using their instincts and a computer system that scans for suspect license
plates, agents seize about 12 contraband shipments on an average day. They find
more than drugs. Wednesday, Carl Weidrow, an INS inspector, discovered three
women and a man hiding in two steel containers welded beneath a gray Ford van
downwind of a leaky exhaust pipe.

Still, agents worry that their own suspicions and the license-plate checks alone
will not keep out terrorists.

They don't have time to check vehicle passengers against the Interagency Border
Inspection System database, designed to catch known terrorists and felons. That
would take six minutes for each car with four riders.

If everyone were checked, "that line would extend all the way to La Paz," about
900 miles to the south, a senior INS inspector said.

Fewer than a tenth of the pedestrians crossing the border are required to fill
out INS paperwork detailing where they are going and for how long. Forms aren't
required for people who promise to keep within 25 miles of the border or stay
for less than three days -- but there's nothing to stop them from lying about
their plans.

Visitors with no ID who say they are American citizens are typically questioned
but not detained, and Europeans can enter the United States without visas. This
makes travel easier for tourists -- and terrorists -- experts and agents say.

President Bush is aware of the problems. Thursday, he inspected border crossings
in Texas and asked Congress for $5 billion to help improve aviation and border
security.

"We must work to make sure our border is modernized so that the commerce that
takes place can move more freely," Bush said. "On the other hand, we want to use
our technology to make sure that we weed out those who we don't want in our
country -- the terrorists, the coyotes, the smugglers, those who prey on
innocent life."

The administration's proposal to combine border-security agencies make sense,
experts say, but may be missing deeper problems.

"This change is not intended to address the problem of the INS," said Demetrios
Papademetriou, co-director of the Migration Policy Institute in Washington, a
non-partisan think tank that studies the flow of people worldwide.

The agency is badly managed, too large and technologically backward, he said.
"Extraordinary problems," he said.

A major issue is the balance between security and commerce.

"The problem is that we can't make up our minds on what our immigration policy
is," said Jan Ting, a former assistant INS director. "Commercial interests don't
want the borders blocked up."

"In immigration, there are all kinds of special interests at work, and there's
no one lobbying for the national interests," said Ting, a law professor at
Temple University in Philadelphia. "There's no one really there to say no."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 19, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Report urges benefits for all immigrants;
SAYS INTEGRATION BOOSTS STATE'S PROSPERITY

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 446 words


The key to California's future prosperity rests with providing foreign-born
residents with the tools they need to integrate into society -- regardless of
immigration status, a state bipartisan commission announced Tuesday.

By helping more than 8 million legal and illegal immigrants become self-reliant,
a growing number of them will gain citizenship, improve their financial standing
and participate in civic affairs, the Little Hoover Commission concluded in its
89-page report, "We the People: Helping Newcomers Become Californians."

The commission recommended the creation of a Golden State Residency Program,
which would provide equal benefits to all immigrants, including driver's
licenses, health insurance and job training.

There are an estimated 2 million undocumented immigrants in California,
according to the commission, though other studies have pegged that figure
higher.

"Ultimately the commission is saying, when making public policy, you have to
draw beyond this distinction between immigrants and citizens," said H. Eric
Schockman, chairman of the study's subcommittee.

It is unlikely, however, that the state will incorporate the recommendations
because of California's budget deficit and post-Sept. 11 concerns over national
security as it relates to immigration, said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa
Clara County's citizenship and immigrant programs.

But the findings drew praise from Hobbs and other immigrant advocates.

"It sounds like the Golden State Residency proposal would also allow the
undocumented to become visible, and that visibility is a form of security, in my
opinion, for those who are living in the margins of society in California,"
Hobbs said.

About one in three Santa Clara County residents are immigrants. In California,
one in four are foreign-born.

Tuesday's report stemmed from an effort that began in March 2001 in which Bay
Area advocates testified about immigrants' needs.

Sister Marilyn Lacey of San Jose's Catholic Charities told the commission that
her organization helps documented and undocumented immigrants.

"It improves the lives for the whole community when we improve the situation of
the underbelly of the community, the folks who are least mainstreamed," Lacey
said.

Other commission recommendations call on state and local leaders to:

* Develop a public awareness campaign to teach immigrants their rights and
responsibilities.

* Advocate for federal immigration reforms.

* Create a state commission on immigrants.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

The Little Hoover Commission report can be found at www.lhc.ca.gov.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 26, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Crash fuels debate on smuggling, border policy;
SIX DIE AS VAN TRIES TO BYPASS CHECKPOINT

BYLINE: Tony Perry and Lisa Richardson Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: PINE VALLEY


Authorities Tuesday said a collision that killed six people and injured 16
others is one of the worst involving a now-common occurrence along the
U.S.-Mexico border: a desperate attempt by illegal immigrants to evade capture
by the U.S. Border Patrol.

Five suspected illegal immigrants and a 50-year-old man from Albuquerque, N.M.,
were killed instantly Monday night when a "load van" stuffed with 33 people
struck four oncoming vehicles on Interstate 8 about 50 miles east of downtown
San Diego.

The collision immediately rekindled debate about immigrant smuggling and whether
U.S. border policy is contributing to the death toll as immigrants resort to
riskier routes to enter the country.

While vehicle accidents are only a fraction of the overall death toll, the
number of immigrants dying in their attempt to reach the United States has
increased sharply in recent years as the United States has tightened its control
over less risky routes near the San Ysidro border crossing.

Moments before Monday night's accident occurred, the van was speeding west in
the eastbound lanes -- against the flow of traffic -- with headlights off in an
apparent attempt to evade a Border Patrol checkpoint, California Highway Patrol
officials said. Having already looped around the checkpoint, the driver may have
been attempting to return to the westbound lanes when disaster stuck.

There is no indication that the van was being chased or followed by the Border
Patrol or Highway Patrol.

The 1994 Dodge van -- designed to accommodate 15 passengers -- first sideswiped
a 1989 Honda Prelude and a 1996 Honda Accord. The drivers of both vehicles
survived with no serious injuries.

Then the van slammed head-on into a 1993 Ford Explorer, driven by Larry S. Baca
of Albuquerque. The Explorer became airborne and tumbled down a sharp
embankment, landing upside down. Baca was instantly killed.

Finally, the van collided head-on with a 1989 Toyota van driven by Maria F.
Amaya, 45, of Boulevard, a community in eastern San Diego County. She was
hospitalized in serious condition. She had been returning from a San Diego
hospital after having been involved in a minor accident at another location.

There were no skid marks on the pavement, suggesting to authorities that the
crashes occurred too quickly for any of the drivers to react along the darkened
stretch of road, two lanes in each direction separated by a wide median with
plants.

Some taken into custody

Along with the six dead, 31 people were taken to eight San Diego area hospitals.
Sixteen continued to receive treatment Tuesday; three were in critical
condition. The Border Patrol took into custody those from the Dodge van who were
treated and released.

None of the immigrants killed -- four men and one woman -- carried
identification, which is hampering attempts by the county medical examiner to
determine names and notify relatives.

CHP investigators believe the driver of the Dodge van, who was killed, had used
an emergency turnout along the freeway to cross from the westbound to eastbound
lane about a mile east of the Border Patrol checkpoint. The collision occurred
about a mile west of the checkpoint.

Tangled vehicles and bodies were strewed across both eastbound lanes of the
Interstate 8, shutting the freeway for hours. Emergency vehicles returning from
a brush fire in the backwoods section of the county were diverted to help with
the injured.

Smugglers blamed

Standing at the entrance to Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego where three
Mexican nationals were being treated, a Mexican consular official laid much of
the blame for the accident on smugglers. Most of the immigrants were from
Mexico, some from Brazil and others from countries in Central America, officials
said.

The migrants "are trying to come across the border looking for opportunity,"
Juan Carlos Sanchez said. "But it's the smugglers who are definitely putting
people at risk of dying. It's organized business -- those people are just
merchandise to them."

But Claudia Smith, of the Oceanside-based office of the California Rural Legal
Assistance Foundation, said the U.S. crackdown on the border, dubbed Operation
Gatekeeper, also shares the blame by forcing immigrants away from easier and
safer routes.

"These deaths are entirely foreseeable," Smith said. "We're sitting on the
border of hypocrisy. We have made smugglers indispensable. What do you expect?
People are going to continue to come here and the smugglers are the only way to
get across."

Ben Seeley, of the San Diego-based Border Solutions Task Force, which has called
for an even tougher approach to illegal immigration, disagreed sharply with
Smith.

"This is a tragedy that never had to happen," Seeley said. "Until we get the
border sealed off and until the checkpoints work like they're supposed to, it's
going to happen. Smugglers have no regard for human life."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 26, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Crash fuels debate on smuggling, border policy;
SIX DIE AS VAN CARRYING 33 TRIES TO BYPASS CHECKPOINT

BYLINE: Tony Perry and Lisa Richardson Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: PINE VALLEY


Authorities Tuesday said a collision that killed six people and injured 16
others is one of the worst involving a now-common occurrence along the
U.S.-Mexico border: a desperate attempt by illegal immigrants to evade capture
by the U.S. Border Patrol.

Five suspected illegal immigrants and a 50-year-old man from Albuquerque, N.M.,
were killed instantly Monday night when a "load van" stuffed with 33 people
struck four oncoming vehicles on Interstate 8 about 50 miles east of downtown
San Diego.

The collision immediately rekindled debate about immigrant smuggling and whether
U.S. border policy is contributing to the death toll as immigrants resort to
riskier routes to enter the country.

While vehicle accidents are only a fraction of the overall death toll, the
number of immigrants dying in their attempt to reach the United States has
increased sharply in recent years as the United States has tightened its control
over less risky routes near the San Ysidro border crossing.

Moments before Monday night's accident occurred, the van was speeding west in
the eastbound lanes -- against the flow of traffic -- with headlights off in an
apparent attempt to evade a Border Patrol checkpoint, California Highway Patrol
officials said. Having already looped around the checkpoint, the driver may have
been attempting to return to the westbound lanes when disaster stuck.

There is no indication that the van was being chased or followed by the Border
Patrol or Highway Patrol.

The 1994 Dodge van -- designed to accommodate 15 passengers -- first sideswiped
a 1989 Honda Prelude and a 1996 Honda Accord. The drivers of both vehicles
survived with no serious injuries.

Then the van slammed head-on into a 1993 Ford Explorer, driven by Larry S. Baca
of Albuquerque. The Explorer became airborne and tumbled down a sharp
embankment, landing upside down. Baca was instantly killed.

Finally, the van collided head-on with a 1989 Toyota van driven by Maria F.
Amaya, 45, of Boulevard, a community in eastern San Diego County. She was
hospitalized in serious condition. She had been returning from a San Diego
hospital after having been involved in a minor accident at another location.

There were no skid marks on the pavement, suggesting to authorities that the
crashes occurred too quickly for any of the drivers to react along the darkened
stretch of road, two lanes in each direction separated by a wide median with
plants.

Some taken into custody

Along with the six dead, 31 people were taken to eight San Diego area hospitals.
Sixteen continued to receive treatment Tuesday; three were in critical
condition. The Border Patrol took into custody those from the Dodge van who were
treated and released.

None of the immigrants killed -- four men and one woman -- carried
identification, which is hampering attempts by the county medical examiner to
determine names and notify relatives.

CHP investigators believe the driver of the Dodge van, who was killed, had used
an emergency turnout along the freeway to cross from the westbound to eastbound
lane about a mile east of the Border Patrol checkpoint. The collision occurred
about a mile west of the checkpoint.

Tangled vehicles and bodies were strewed across both eastbound lanes of the
Interstate 8, shutting the freeway for hours. Emergency vehicles returning from
a brush fire in the backwoods section of the county were diverted to help with
the injured.

Smugglers blamed

Standing at the entrance to Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego where three
Mexican nationals were being treated, a Mexican consular official laid much of
the blame for the accident on smugglers. Most of the immigrants were from
Mexico, some from Brazil and others from countries in Central America, officials
said.

The migrants "are trying to come across the border looking for opportunity,"
Juan Carlos Sanchez said. "But it's the smugglers who are definitely putting
people at risk of dying. It's organized business -- those people are just
merchandise to them."

But Claudia Smith, of the Oceanside-based office of the California Rural Legal
Assistance Foundation, said the U.S. crackdown on the border, dubbed Operation
Gatekeeper, also shares the blame by forcing immigrants away from easier and
safer routes.

"These deaths are entirely foreseeable," Smith said. "We're sitting on the
border of hypocrisy. We have made smugglers indispensable. What do you expect?
People are going to continue to come here and the smugglers are the only way to
get across."

Ben Seeley, of the San Diego-based Border Solutions Task Force, which has called
for an even tougher approach to illegal immigration, disagreed sharply with
Smith.

"This is a tragedy that never had to happen," Seeley said. "Until we get the
border sealed off and until the checkpoints work like they're supposed to, it's
going to happen. Smugglers have no regard for human life."

The number of immigrants killed making the trek northward has increased in
recent years, with heat exhaustion being the most common cause. In the San Diego
area, 134 immigrants died attempting to cross in 2001 and 140 in 2000; of those,
35 are listed as dying from car accidents and other non-heat-related causes.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 26, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

6 die as smuggler's van hits SUV on I-8

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


Attempting to avoid a Border Patrol checkpoint, a smuggler's van packed with 27
illegal immigrants drove the wrong way down an interstate with its lights off
and then collided head-on with two other vehicles, killing six people.

The crash late Monday was heard by Border Patrol staffers at the checkpoint less
than a half-mile away. Agents ran down the freeway toward the wreckage, said
Agent James Jacques, who was called to the scene an hour later.

"It was horrendous," he said.

The crash occurred in a remote area on Interstate 8, about 45 miles east of San
Diego and 15 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border.

The 1994 Dodge van was driving the wrong way in the fast lane of eastbound
Interstate 8 about 9 p.m. Monday when it sideswiped two cars before colliding
head-on with a Ford Explorer, California Highway Patrol officer Steve Lopez
said.

The collision sent the Explorer over a guardrail and down an embankment, killing
the sport utility vehicle's driver, Larry S. Baca, 50, of Albuquerque.

The van, filled with Mexican and Brazilian immigrants, then crashed head-on with
another vehicle before coming to rest across both eastbound lanes.

Highway Patrol investigators said five people in the van, including an
unidentified man believed to have been the driver, were killed, Lopez said.

Authorities were trying to confirm the names and nationalities of the people in
the van, many of whom carried no identification, Lopez said.

A total of 31 people were sent to San Diego County hospitals. Most of them
suffered minor injuries and were released.

The Border Patrol said it was not pursuing the van prior to the crash.

The remote area of eastern San Diego County is commonly used by overloaded
smugglers' vehicles. Smugglers often arrange to pick up immigrants at a remote
spot after they have walked across the border, Jacques said.

Immigrant smugglers, he said, "are very ruthless. They look at these people as a
commodity, not human beings. . . . It hurts us to see this type of thing happen
-- when money is more important than human life."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 28, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Two bodies found in truck believed to hold immigrants

BYLINE: Mike Torralba Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: ANNA, Texas


Two bodies were found in a tractor-trailer Saturday that had apparently hauled
dozens of illegal immigrants for several hours in 90-degree heat, police said.
Several people were hospitalized for heat-related injuries.

The rig was found parked at a truck stop in this small town about 40 miles north
of Dallas. Witnesses said one man stumbled from the trailer and was
hospitalized.

"Once our troopers got there we found two apparent illegal aliens confirmed dead
and one injured," said Texas Department of Public Safety spokesman Tom Vinger.
"It looks like an illegal-alien situation. Whether the driver knew they were
there is still under investigation."

The driver and another man in the cab were taken into custody, Vinger said.

Authorities believed it was the same rig that stopped at a Dallas truck stop
earlier in the day, where witnesses said about 40 people poured out, some
fleeing into neighborhoods seeking help.

Authorities said the truck, carrying medical supplies, had traveled to Dallas
from El Paso, -- about a 10-hour drive. Some ran to homes asking for water, and
the truck left the scene before police arrived.

At least 14 people were hospitalized for heat exhaustion and possible heat
stroke. Authorities said at least five were in critical condition. It was about
96 degrees Saturday afternoon in the Dallas area.

Dallas police Sgt. Steve Winters said about 20 people were taken into custody;
others got away and were being sought.

"It was a heartbreaking thing to see people suffering like that," said Willie
Warren, an employee at the Dallas truck stop. "They were gagging for breath.
Some of them couldn't even walk."

Neighbors said they tried to help several people.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 9, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

S.J. slow to embrace Mexican IDs;
SYMBOLIC MEASURE: SOME LATINOS SAY LACK OF POLICY SENDS OUT MESSAGE THAT
IMMIGRANTS ARE UNWELCOME

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words


When Santa Clara County supervisors this week voted to allow thousands of
undocumented immigrants to access some county services by honoring Mexican
consulate-issued ID cards, they followed the lead of a number of local
governments and businesses nationwide.

San Francisco, Oakland, Santa Cruz and Los Angeles have all adopted the policy.
But one Bay Area city is noticeably absent: San Jose, home to Northern
California's largest population of Mexican nationals and Mexican-Americans.

The city council's reluctance has stunned many local Latinos, although San Jose
leaders deny the city is against setting a policy.

Critics say San Jose's apparent lack of support is the latest example of how the
city that prides itself on its diversity and tolerance is earning a reputation
for being unfriendly to immigrants.

"It's a paradox," said Marco Alcazar, general consul of Mexico in San Jose. "The
symbolism that could be represented through formal adoption by a decision of the
city council would be encouraging for the Mexican community."

Some council members say San Jose doesn't need to propose a resolution in
support of the cards because city departments already have the discretion to
honor them on their own. Police Chief William Lansdowne issued a memo to the
council in December saying the department would accept the cards as a form of
identification, after learning of their importance to undocumented immigrants.

David Vossbrink, spokesman for Mayor Ron Gonzales, disputes the claim that San
Jose is unwelcoming to immigrants. Although he acknowledges the symbolic
importance of a resolution, he said the police department's policy demonstrates
the city's commitment to immigrants.

"As soon as we knew there was something we could do to be helpful, we took
action," Councilwoman Cindy Chavez said, referring to the police department's
support. Chavez, who represents downtown neighborhoods, and Councilwoman Nora
Campos, who represents part of the East Side, said they haven't heard from a
single resident asking for a resolution.

Access, protection

The cards, known as matriculas consulares, are hugely popular because they allow
people without another valid ID to more easily access services and benefits,
such as obtaining library cards and opening bank accounts. The cards also have
been important when dealing with police, especially after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

Aside from their practical purposes, the cards give immigrants a sense of
security, symbolic acknowledgment that city leaders recognize the tens of
thousands of undocumented immigrants who work, shop and pay taxes in the city.

San Jose's silence on the issue speaks volumes, some residents say.

"People tell me all the time that Ron Gonzales and the entire council are seen
as anti-immigrant," said Jose Sandoval, San Jose coordinator for Voluntarios de
la Comunidad, a grass-roots group with 300 members that frequently leads marches
in favor of immigrant rights.

Sandoval and others point to a string of incidents in recent years in which the
priorities of city leaders and those of Latino immigrants have clashed:

* The city plans to forge ahead with a proposal to redevelop East San Jose's
Tropicana shopping center, despite vigorous opposition from Latino merchants,
particularly those who are immigrants.

* Gonzales has declined to join other Latino politicians statewide in endorsing
a proposed state law to allow undocumented immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses.

* The city has failed to reverse a policy that prevents push-cart ice cream
vendors from obtaining seller's permits unless the applicants are permanent
residents or U.S. citizens. Other cities in the Bay Area don't have such
policies.

A growing number of residents say San Jose's record shows its council members
are out of touch with immigrants.

"A lot of our people don't view them as our leaders because their vote is not
with the immigrants; their vote is not with the Latino community," said Alberto
Carrillo, a local spokesman for the League of United Latin American Citizens, a
national advocacy group.

Chavez calls the criticism unfair. She said the city constantly attends to
immigrants' needs in many areas, including affordable housing, improving
libraries and building parks.

"You can't look at this council and not recognize we care about all of our
community," she said.

Some political observers and cultural experts say the San Jose City Council's
three Latino politicians are in a tough spot. Latino immigrants often don't
approach their council members to make their concerns known, experts say. And
while Gonzales, Campos and Chavez need to represent all of their constituents,
many Latino immigrants expect city leaders to consistently stand up for
immigrant causes simply because they're Latino.

"It seems natural to me that they would expect more responsiveness, because of a
basic affinity, a basic identification," said Felipe Korzenny, an expert on
Latino culture and a principal of Cheskin, a Redwood Shores marketing firm.

Some residents believe city council members refuse to propose a matricula policy
because they don't want to appear in support of illegal immigration.

No clout

Fernando Zazueta, an attorney and Latino activist of more than 25 years in San
Jose, takes the argument a step further: He says politicians won't stick their
necks out for people who can't vote.

"And if they cannot vote, there is nothing gained by the elected officials'
support," he said.

The mayor's spokesman declined to comment on the perception that the city
council refuses to take positions on issues related to illegal immigrants. He
said Gonzales has been an advocate for issues immigrants and other residents
care about.

"We make sure our communities are strong, safe and healthy -- and that benefits
residents who are here legally or illegally, citizens or non-citizens,"
Vossbrink said.

Latino advocates still hope that San Jose will follow in the county's footsteps.

Former council member Blanca Alvarado, who proposed the county's policy, gave
Campos a packet of information in June about the matricula issue. Assemblyman
Manny Diaz, also a former council member, has prepared a proposal to encourage
all of California's cities and counties to do adopt resolutions in support of
matriculas.

"They have the right to not recognize us," said Martha Campos, a volunteer with
Comite Cesar Chavez, a grass-roots immigrant rights group. "And we also have the
right to tell them that we're here."

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 7, 2001 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION
                              Correction Appended

INTERPRETER CONDUCT AT ISSUE AGAIN;
BERKELEY LANDLORD CASE: TWO AGREE TO SENTENCING FOR IMMIGRATION FRAUD

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 452 words


A hearing in a case where the conduct of two interpreters is a growing issue
bogged down Tuesday when problems arose with the new interpreter.

Sridhar Peddabachigari, the new court-appointed translator, appeared to have
trouble doing his job. Judge Saundra Brown Armstrong interrupted the proceedings
to instruct him when to translate.

Eventually, attorneys for Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy agreed that their
clients would be sentenced in January on one count each of immigration fraud.
The maximum penalty is 16 months in prison. The defendants have asked for a
five-month sentence.

The Lakireddys are the brother and sister-in-law of Lakireddy Bali Reddy, the
multimillionaire Berkeley landlord in prison serving an eight-year sentence as
the result of a scheme that imported young girls from India for sex and cheap
labor. The Lakireddys and two of Reddy's sons -- Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy --
were also charged in connection with the case.

Problems in case

Even before Tuesday's hearing, attorneys for the government and the Reddy family
had been jousting over three interpreters who provided translation at earlier
court sessions.

During the summer, federal prosecutors came forward with information that court
interpreter Uma Rao of Berkeley, used extensively to communicate between the
female sex victims and the government, had urged four victims to lie. According
to the government, two of them actually did.

Now, defense attorneys for Reddy's sons -- who are also charged in the case --
want to know more about the relationship Rao had with the victims, specifically
how often they met. And the judge granted several motions to allow the defense
to further investigate Telugu interpreters Bharat Kona and Nalini Shekhar.

Both were seen picketing in front of Pasand, Reddy's popular Berkeley
restaurant, last year to denounce the family. And Kona, as president of the Bay
Area Telugu Association based in Fremont, also wrote a letter to the judge
urging a harsh penalty for Reddy.

While defense attorneys said the behavior showed "active bias" against Reddy's
sons, Armstrong disagreed. There is no evidence, she said, that any interpreter
other than Rao acted improperly. Later this month, Armstrong is expected to
issue rulings on Rao's conduct.

New interpreter

With the previous interpreters under scrutiny, Peddabachigari was called in as a
first-time Telugu interpreter, to translate for the Lakireddys. Telugu is a
dialect spoken in south India.

But instead of immediately translating testimony as is the practice in court
hearings, Peddabachigari waited for a few sentences then translated. Armstrong
told him he needed to translate almost simultaneously.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

CORRECTION-DATE: November 8, 2001

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 11/08/01, pg. 2A)
An article Wednesday in some local sections about a Berkeley family charged with
immigration fraud mischaracterized Telugu. It is a language spoken in south
India. Also, Bharat Kona of Fremont did not attend a rally last year denouncing
Lakireddy Bali Reddy and his family.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reddy
Imported girls for cheap labor and sex.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 18, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HARSH FOOD STAMP RULE IS OUT, THANKS TO BUSH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 342 words


PRESIDENT Bush has agreed to undo a harsh piece of the 1996 welfare reform law:
the elimination of food stamps for legal immigrants.

The restoration of the program was five years overdue. President Clinton, after
signing the welfare bill, said he would try to reverse the food stamp ban. Even
former House speaker Newt Gingrich now admits that what was done was wrong. But
it has taken a Republican president, bucking conservatives in his party, to push
the measure forward.

The administration announced it would include funding for the program -- $2.1
billion over the next 10 years -- in the next federal budget that will be
released next month. The beneficiaries will not only be many of the 363,000
legal immigrants who were denied relief, but also treasuries in a dozen states
like California that stepped in when the federal government pulled out.

California has spent $40 million a year on food stamps for 100,000 non-citizen,
legal immigrants. It won't save all of this, since Bush would make food stamps
eligible for only immigrants in the country at least five years. California
doesn't have that restriction.

Families that earn up to 30 percent above the poverty line -- $1,582 for a
family of three -- can receive food stamps. With the passage of the welfare law,
as many as 800,000 legal immigrants were thrown off the rolls. They represented
less than 5 percent of the 18 million Americans who received food stamps in a
recent month. Congress did reinstate benefits for children and senior citizens
since then.

Immigrants were singled out on the theory that food stamps served as a magnet
for immigrants and discouraged them from working. It wasn't true: Most legal
immigrants have marketable skills and jobs and pay taxes. But they, like others,
can be victims of a recession.

Latino groups have been pushing for the restoration of benefits, and so it makes
good politics for Bush, who campaigned hard for the Latino vote. But it also is
humane policy, and Bush deserves credit for taking the initiative.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 20, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Board backs non-citizen airport screener bill

BYLINE: Michelle Guido Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 305 words


Santa Clara County supervisors added their voices to a growing chorus of
California officials who support legislation that would scrap the federal
government's requirement that airport screeners be U.S. citizens.

The county conducted a survey of the three Bay Area international airports and
found that 75 percent of the San Jose screeners, 70 percent of the San Francisco
screeners and 35 percent of those at the Oakland airport would be affected. The
citizenship requirement has become a touchstone issue amid new aviation security
standards in the Bay Area.

By a 5-0 vote, the supervisors backed a resolution Tuesday that would repeal the
requirement that security screeners be citizens, extend the timeline for
naturalization, support measures that would speed up the naturalization process
and find resources to help those workers make the transition into other careers.

In November, President Bush signed into law the Aviation and Transportation
Security Act in response to the Sept. 11 attacks. In addition to establishing
measures for improving security, the law says baggage screeners must be U.S.
citizens. The process for converting the screeners began last month, but it
hasn't yet started in San Jose.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, has proposed a remedy. Her bill, HR 3959, asks
Congress to set the same citizenship standards for airport screeners as for
military personnel. That means they would need to have green cards and meet
other security requirements, but legal immigrants could keep working.

"It's absurd that we would have more stringent requirements for people who
provide security at our airports than for those who want to serve in our armed
forces," said Supervisor Pete McHugh. "This is the appropriate thing to do."

Contact Michelle Guido at mguido@sjmercury.com or (408) 295-3984.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       May 15, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Dutch party gaining after leader's death;
ASSASSINATION SHARPENS FOCUS ON IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: Daniel Rubin Mercury News Berlin Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 756 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, Netherlands


The Netherlands could elect a dead man prime minister today, a prospect that
prompted the Dutch comedy group Boom Chicago to say that "really isn't that much
different from what we've been used to the past eight years."

In the clannish, agreeable world of Netherlands politics, Pim Fortuyn stood out
like a Picasso figure in a Rembrandt painting. He was an outspoken, gay man with
a taste for limousine rides and lap dogs, a Ph.D. with a shaved head who had
street credibility, a former professor who preached tolerance but berated the
Islamic faith and sought to end Muslim immigration because of what he considered
Islamic intolerance.

Fortuyn's slaying last week horrified this densely populated country, which
experienced its last political assassination in 1672. "Holland has lost its
innocence," declared the newspaper De Volkskrant.

"This is our 11th of September," Michael van Eekeren, 41, an Amsterdam
musicologist, said as he read goodbye notes left for Fortuyn at a war memorial
in Amsterdam. "You never thought it would happen in Holland."

The real stunner may be next. With Fortuyn's name still on the ballot, his
3-month-old party of political neophytes is poised to become part of the new
government.

A poll released Monday by the NIPO research bureau gave Fortuyn's party 18 1/2
percent of the vote, or 28 of Parliament's 150 seats, only 2 percentage points
behind the leading Christian Democrats.

Political scientist Rudy Andeweg of Leiden University projects that Fortuyn will
win the most votes, which could hand the country's top job to Furtuyn's deputy
Joao Varela, a black, 27-year-old businessman from the Cape Verde Islands.

While some experts doubt that a leaderless party will win today, all said how
shocked they were by the support Fortuyn was garnering before his assassination,
and how it had only increased in death.

A 32-year-old environmental activist has been accused of shooting Fortuyn on May
6. The government called off campaigning, then decided to hold the parliamentary
elections anyway.

"What happens next? That's the $64,000 question," said Hans Enzinger, a
sociologist at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, where Fortuyn's ticket took 35
percent of the vote in local elections in March. "He was the hope of a lot of
people, and we still are trying to find out why."

Clues can be found in memorials such as the one surrounding a World War II
statue in Amsterdam's Dam Square. Among the tiers of teddy bears, tulips and
hand-printed posters was this unsigned note:

"For 30 years the politicians and authorities have lied to us, cheated and
deceived us . . . pressured us and deprived us of our freedom of opinion. Even
the press was part of this, then you came along. You tried to save our country.
You were our last chance. But we will vote for you anyway. We will vote for our
freedom."

Fortuyn, 54, railed against crime and bureaucracy, but he drew most attention
for his criticism of immigration -- Muslim immigration in particular. He
questioned how the Netherlands' 800,000 Muslims, under 5 percent of the
population, were fitting in. He called Islam a "backward religion" in a
newspaper interview that led his first party, Livable Netherlands, to give him
the boot.

He asked questions rarely asked in Dutch politics, and he hit a nerve. A poll in
Rotterdam found that 60 percent of the respondents favored expelling any Muslims
who backed the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States.

But Fortuyn's opposition to immigration was rooted more in social issues than in
xenophobia. While he advocated closing the Netherlands' borders, he said it was
the country's job to integrate those foreigners who already were there. His
flamboyant sexuality -- his sold-out autobiography, "Babyboomers," detailed his
first homosexual encounter as a boy -- served to counter those who called him
intolerant. In fact, his complaint against Muslims was what he perceived as
their intolerance for the rights of gays and women.

"People thought that he would protect rights of minorities and would be opposed
to an ideology that was less tolerant, like the public perception of Islam,
which is much more nuanced in reality," Enzinger said. "So he was not against
otherness as much as he was against those who are against otherness."

Bengin Ali, a 28-year-old Muslim hotel worker from Drachten, fears that the mood
may be swinging against foreigners. "I'm very happy with Dutch immigration
policies, and I hope the new government continues in that manner," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 12, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Cameroon man's 6-year odyssey ends with asylum

BYLINE: Fredric N. Tulsky Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va.


A Cameroon man who spent 1,166 days in Virginia jails waiting for a judge to
reconsider his claim for asylum finally got his wish.

Immigration Judge John M. Bryant said Tuesday that he will grant Flaubert Mbongo
asylum in August, after the FBI conducts mandatory fingerprint checks.

Until 18 months ago, Justice Department officials refused to look at documents
Mbongo said showed that his life was in danger in Cameroon because he tried to
promote an opposition political party. The officials changed their stance after
a Mercury News report in December 2000 confirmed that the documents were
authentic and that Mbongo was telling the truth.

Mbongo's victory comes as the chances of winning asylum have grown more
difficult in the wake of Sept. 11. Elisa Massimino, head of the Washington
office of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, said that she feared that with
new regulations being pushed by the Justice Department, "If this case happened
today, under the new regulations, there is a greater risk that it would have
been sent back home before anyone ever looked at his documents and gave him the
chance to adjudicate his case."

First asylum request

When Bryant first heard Mbongo's request for asylum in March 1997, Mbongo was
brought into court in shackles and told his story in French, through an
interpreter. He had no documents to support his claim that he would be in danger
if he were sent home.

Bryant concluded that Mbongo was not credible, and turned down his claim. Then
Mbongo's wife sent a stack of supporting documents, but Justice Department
officials contended that they had arrived too late and would likely not have
affected the outcome of the case.

Mbongo was released from jail in November 1999, but officials continued to try
to deport him. A year later, after a Mercury News reporter traveled to Cameroon
and confirmed that the documents were real, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service asked the immigration courts to award Mbongo a new day in court, leading
to the hearing Tuesday.

This time, Mbongo appeared before Bryant in a gray suit and silver tie. Speaking
in English that he has learned since arriving here, Mbongo told his story again.

Under U.S. and international laws, people who arrive without valid passports or
visas can win asylum by proving a reasonable fear of persecution in their home
countries because of their political opinion, national origin, race, religion,
or membership in a social group. The Mercury News has reported that the outcome
of cases often depends on the sensibilities of individual immigration judges who
frequently are left to rule on cases with little evidence.

Yet the stakes are significant: On one hand, a wrong decision could send a
torture victims back to face potential death. On the other, it could open the
door to abuses by foreign citizens -- even potential terrorists -- with stories
of woe at home.

Justice Department figures from the past five years show that for every asylum
seeker who succeeds, four either lose in immigration court or drop their cases.
But asylum seekers from Cameroon, an impoverished country on Africa's west
coast, have done significantly better: Armed with State Department reports
documenting the violence against political and human rights activists in
Cameroon, almost half the decided cases have ended in grants of asylum in the
same period.

Arrived in '96

In Mbongo's case, he first appeared at Dulles International Airport in Virginia
with a false passport in September 1996. Mbongo insisted the passport was
authentic, but said he wanted to see a judge. Instead, he was sent to jail. As
he moved from one Virginia jail to another, he tried to win asylum.

Mbongo contended, when he first went before Bryant, that he had been active in a
political opposition party headed by Yondo Black, a Cameroon lawyer. He said he
had been repeatedly arrested, on some occasions beaten, for his activities. He
said he fled his country, leaving behind his wife and two daughters, only when
he became convinced that authorities intended to kill him.

But Mbongo had nothing to support his story. Citing the lies Mbongo told at the
airport about his identity, Bryant denied asylum. Months later, while locked in
Virginia jails, Mbongo received from home a stack of documents that included
handwritten notes signed by Black, thanking Mbongo for his activities.

But Justice Department officials denied his appeals, rejecting Mbongo's request
that the case be sent back to Bryant for reconsideration.

Mbongo's original lawyer quit, and he was left on his own to try to appeal in
federal courts in Virginia. Eventually his new attorneys persuaded officials to
release Mbongo from jail in November 1999. But authorities did not review the
documents until after a reporter traveled to Cameroon two years ago, and
confirmed that Mbongo had been an activist in Black's party and had been
persecuted for his work.

In closing arguments Tuesday, Mbongo attorney Jonathan K. Tycko cited the
Mercury News account and said, "The evidence is now clear that Mr. Mbongo was
active politically, and was persecuted as a result."

INS assistant district counsel Simon A. Gaugush continued to vigorously oppose
granting asylum to Mbongo, saying he still doubted Mbongo's credibility. He
contended that Mbongo still had not proven any persecution as a result of his
political activities.

"I'm a little surprised by your tough stance," Bryant told Gaugush. Bryant ruled
that Mbongo had proved that he was active in the political opposition, in a
country where political opponents are often jailed, tortured or killed. As a
result, Bryant said, Mbongo had a reasonable fear of persecution if sent back
home. He said he will grant asylum at an Aug. 8 hearing, subject to the FBI
review.

Mbongo, who was relieved after the hearing, said he hopes to bring his family to
join him "as soon as I am able."

Contact Rick Tulsky at rtulsky@sjmercury.com or at 415-394-6875.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 5, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO PROPOSING NEW ORGAN PROGRAM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Mexico said Tuesday that it wants to begin a program that would send new organs
to sick Mexicans living illegally in the United States, keeping them from having
to return home to receive transplants.

The announcement by the Health Ministry came after the death of Filemon
Martinez, an illegal migrant who was forced to return to Mexico from Los Angeles
to receive a bone-marrow transplant.

Martinez, who arrived at a hospital in the Mexico City suburb of Los Lomos too
sick to receive the donated marrow, died Sunday night. Officials said he most
likely would have lived had he been able to receive the transplant sooner.

Juan Hernandez, the head of Mexico's office of immigrant affairs, said Tuesday
that health officials would work with their U.S. counterparts to establish a
state-financed program that would allow migrants to receive organs donated from
Mexico without leaving U.S. soil.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 18, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TUITION BREAK FOR SOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
UC RESERVES RIGHT TO CHANGE POLICY

BYLINE: BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 458 words


The University of California regents voted Thursday to charge in-state tuition
fees to students who are in the country illegally if they attended high school
for three years and graduated.

However, the exemption from paying higher out-of-state tuition won't take effect
until state legislation passes to protect the university from lawsuits spurred
by the change. Regents agreed that if a court orders the university to give the
exemption to all U.S. citizens from other states, they will revert back to the
old policy.

Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante, a regent, said the undocumented students who will
benefit "have gone through elementary school, they've gone through high school.
They are ready to participate fully in all this state has to offer its
children."

Students who qualify would pay the in-state rate of about $4,000 a year instead
of the nearly $15,000 non-residents pay. They also must pursue legal status as
soon as they can.

The policy change also would benefit some U.S. citizens -- those who are
residents of other states but who go to high school in California while their
parents live elsewhere or who moved out of state after graduating from a
California high school.

The university estimates there are 150 to 200 "domestic" studentsenrolled in the
UC system who would qualify for the lower fees. That compares with an estimated
50-140 currently enrolled undocumented students who could take advantage of the
change.

If all those students paid lower fees next year, the university would lose $2.3
million to $4.4 million.

The regents' 17-5 vote brings the university into line with the California State
University and community colleges, whose policies changed under a new law that
took effect this year.

Regents Ward Connerly, John Davies, S. Sue Johnson, David Lee and Robert
Morrison voted against the change.

Lee, a Morgan Hill businessman, said regents should not be lowering tuition for
undocumented immigrants when they are talking about raising fees for residents
because of the state budget crunch.

"We've got to take care of Americans first," said Lee. "We've got to take care
of the people in school first."

The change is aimed at helping undocumented students who have attended school in
California most of their lives, but Connerly said, "This solution goes far
beyond that. It goes so far that many of us are holding their noses about voting
for this."

University policy allows waiver of out-of-state tuition in several instances,
including for research assistants and teaching fellows, children and spouses of
deceased California law enforcement officers and firefighters killed on active
duty and active members of the military on duty in California and their
dependents.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 25, 2002 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULES PAVE WAY FOR VISAS;
FOR SMUGGLED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Attorney General John Ashcroft approved new rules Thursday creating special
immigration visas for people smuggled into the United States and forced into
prostitution, domestic service or farm labor.

These "T-visas," created under a federal law passed in 2000, will allow victims
to remain in the United States if they can persuade immigration authorities they
would face "extreme hardship involving unusual and severe harm" if returned to
their native countries.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 26, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANGEL ISLAND FOUNDATION WANTS IMMIGRANTS' STORIES

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 365 words


Q
A few months ago, I thought I remember seeing an article about survivors of the
Angel Island immigration detention center. My father-in-law is one and has many
stories to pass along. The article stated some group was gathering stories and
memories from the people who were detained on Angel Island.

My father-in-law is still very coherent and active but does not move around very
well as he's in his 80s. He now says he would like to share his stories with
this group. He would rather talk in his native language to make it easier to
express himself. What is the group that is gathering the information?

Margaret Mock
A
Contact the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation at (415) 561-2160, says
Catherine Toy, group spokeswoman. Toy says the foundation is seeking memories
and stories from those immigrants who were detained on Angel Island.

She says those who call the foundation will be sent a questionnaire first.
Interviews will follow and can be conducted in one's native language. The
foundation's Web site (www.aiisf.org) also has information.

Angel Island, in the San Francisco Bay, was opened in 1910 and anticipated as
the Ellis Island of the West. However, it primarily was a detention center
mostly for Asians coming to this country. The government abandoned the
immigration station on Angel Island in 1940.

Reaction: trees

I was appalled at the Oct. 22 Reaction on the Christmas in the Park trees. That
reader's response was a poor reflection of a Girl Scout, but also inaccurate. My
girls have also signed up along with my Boy Scouts to decoratea tree at
Christmas in the Park. In every instance, my Scouts were informed of the
application form and the chances of being placed on a waiting list. Further, we
read and fully understood that Christmas in the Park maintains undecorated trees
for a park-like atmosphere. This is specified in both the application documents
and the acceptance documents. It is also explained in friendly terms if you call
the offices to ask why there are undecorated trees. A true Scout does not jump
to conclusions or accusations but will be prepared by gathering resources and
facts.
Suzanne Groves
Service Unit 22

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACTION LINE

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 31, 2002 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUPS FIND WAY TO GET NAMES OF INS DETAINEES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: NEW JERSEY


Civil rights groups have found a way to collect the names of immigration
detainees of the post-Sept. 11 dragnet, despite federal refusals to release the
names.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the American Friends Service Committee
plan to hold legal presentations open to all Immigration and Naturalization
Service detainees. During the meetings, the groups could gather names, then
release them publicly. About 460 detainees are in INS custody.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 31, 2002 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUPS FIND WAY TO GET NAMES OF INS DETAINEES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: NEW JERSEY


Civil rights groups have found a way to collect the names of immigration
detainees of the post-Sept. 11 dragnet, despite federal refusals to release the
names.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the American Friends Service Committee
plan to hold legal presentations open to all Immigration and Naturalization
Service detainees. During the meetings, the groups could gather names, then
release them publicly. About 460 detainees are in INS custody.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 20, 2002 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

HUNDREDS RALLY BEHIND NON-CITIZEN SCREENERS;
PROTESTERS AT THREE BAY AREA AIRPORTSCONDEMNED A NEW FEDERAL POLICY REQUIRING
AIRPORT SECURITY WORKERS BE U.S. CITIZENS.

BYLINE: PUTSATA REANG, AARON DAVIS AND ANN MARIMOW, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 846 words


Even the rain couldn't dampen the spirits of about 100 people ck/gathering under
a tent near the baggage claim at Oakland InternationalAirport on Tuesday for a
noon rally to support immigrant workers who may lose their jobs under a new
federal policy that requires airport screeners to be U.S. citizens.

Hundreds of others participated in similar rallies at San Francisco and San Jose
international airports.

The new policy "is as an attack on immigrants that's going to have a tremendous
impact on the Filipino community because there are so many Filipinos in that
job," said Kawal Ulanday, an organizer with Filipinos for Affirmative Action,
which sponsored the Oakland event. "Today is the day pink slips can be handed
out."

The crowd, predominantly labor, human and civil rights activists, demanded a
repeal of a new transportation policy that could jeopardize the jobs of at least
35 Filipinos at the Oakland airport. The federal government this week takes over
airport security and begins replacing screeners with citizens, according to
organizers with SEIU Local 1877, a local union hoping to organize the Oakland
workers.

"The screeners did nothing illegal" on Sept. 11, said Lillian Galedo, executive
director of Filipinos for Affirmative Action. "It was an airport policy that
needs to be changed, not hardworking screeners."

Under the aviation security act that Congress approved and the president signed
following the Sept. 11 attacks, non-citizen screeners are to be replaced with
U.S. workers by Nov. 19. California Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer are
pushing legislation to speed up naturalization for screeners who are eligible to
become U.S. citizens.

But many Filipino screeners are wary of becoming U.S. citizens because they
would have to forfeit rights to any property they own in the Philippines.
Becoming citizens also would complicate screeners' rights to help get family
members into the country.

About 65 percent of Oakland's screeners are Filipino immigrants, according to
Ulanday. Before Sept. 11, Filipinos held about 85 percent of the screener jobs
at the airport, but many were laid off within a few months following the
terrorist attacks, Ulanday said.

The non-citizen screeners were noticeably absent from protests at Oakland
Airport and Mineta San Jose International Airport. Several screeners had been
expected to attend or speak at the Oakland rally but chose not to after their
employers allegedly implied that they could lose their jobs if they showed up at
the public protest. Calls to Argenbright Security, which conducts security for
10 of Oakland's 11 airlines, were not returned Tuesday.

In the screeners' place, at least 100 Latinos, Asian-Americans, Pacific
Islanders and college students from Stanford to Santa Cruz gathered in San Jose.

Students wore stickers with the slogan, "Job security equals airport security."

"It's a racist excuse and there's no justification for it," said 20-year-old
Kuusela Hilo, chair of the Philipino American Student Union at Stanford
University and whose parents emigrated from the Philippines in the 1970s. "The
government is blaming immigrants."

San Francisco airport officials as well as San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown have
written letters in support of non-citizen screeners keeping their jobs. "They're
already trained, they know what they're doing," said airport spokesman Ron
Wilson.

Danilo Orcullo, who works for the Oakland airport security contract company,
Huntleigh USA, said he hasn't been harassed by his employer but worries about
losing his five-year job as a screener.

"I need to support my family, that's why I'm fighting for this job," said
Orcullo, 51, of Alameda, who emigrated from the Cavite province in the
Philippines, five years ago. "We have the right to work in this airport."

Orcullo, who is supporting his wife and two children, said he is applying for
citizenship. He moved his family to America, hoping to make enough money to send
his children to college.

When Orcullo started his job with Huntleigh shortly after arriving in the United
States, he was paid $5 an hour. He and his fellow screeners were earning $7 an
hour before Sept. 11, and he has since received another pay raise to $11.50.
Orcullo has depended on that raise, and keeping his job, to pay for tuition.

"If we lose our jobs, it is very hard to find another job in this BayArea,"
Orcullo said.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
NON-CITIZEN SCREENERS
The federal government's citizenship requirement for airport security screeners
could cost hundreds of screeners their jobs at the Bay Area's major airports.
Here is a look at how many screeners could be affected.
Airport                 Non-citizen         Percent of
screeners           non-citizens
San Francisco           546                 70 percent
San Jose                184                 75 percent
Oakland                 35                  35 percent
Sources: Numbers are estimates from San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland airports

 and the union that represents screeners.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 6B.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
Candelario Rosales, a security screener at San Francisco International Airport,
cheers during Tuesday's rally.
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
San Francisco screener Erlinda Valencia said immigrants are being unfairly
targeted.
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
San Francisco security screener Candelario Rosales was one of a few dozen
airport workers who attended Tuesday's rallies.

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 7, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Change should streamline INS application process

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words


The INS has announced that it will now allow foreign workers seeking permanent
residency to file I-140 and I-485 petitions simultaneously. The goal is to help
eliminate a major backlog in the employment-based processing for permanent
residency.

The change took effect July 31.

Previously, a foreign worker who wanted to apply for permanent residency by
filing form I-485, which is submitted by an individual, could not do so until
his or her form I-140, which is usually filed by an employer, was approved.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says the process has caused
unnecessary delays for some foreign workers. A visa still needs to be available
in order for the petitions to be processed.

If your I-140 was pending on July 31, you can file the I-485 with the
appropriate fees and your I-140 receipt. Make sure to use form I-797.

If your current visa has expired and you want to work while your applications
are pending, you can apply for employment authorization using form I-765. If you
want to travel outside the United States while an application is being
processed, you can apply to do so by using form I-131.

Changing your address

If you have a pending application and you have moved since you filed it, make
sure to send your change of address to the INS. If you have a pending N-400
application for naturalization, you can call the INS National Customer Service
Center (NCSC) at (800) 375-5283 and update your address by phone.

If you're looking for an update on your application and you filed your paperwork
at a service center, you can check on its status by calling the center. Make
sure to have your application receipt handy when you call. In addition to status
information, you can also get mailing addresses, office hours, regional
jurisdictions and forms.

Check your receipt to find out which center is processing your application. You
can reach the California Service Center at (949) 831-8427, the Nebraska Service
Center at (402) 323-7830, the Texas Service Center at (214) 381-1423 and the
Vermont Service Center at (802) 527-4913.

If you filed your application at a local INS office, you can write to them to
check on your status. You can find the addresses online at www.ins.

usdoj.gov.

Be sure to include the following in your letter: Your name as it appears on the
application, your eight- or nine-digit A-Number, and your old and new addresses.

Makeup dates

If you missed a scheduled appointment with the INS because of an emergency, you
can call the NCSC to reschedule it. The NCSC will take your information and pass
it on to the local office, which will make the final decision whether to
reschedule your appointment.

The INS says that failure to appear for an appointment could delay the
processing of your application.

Whorls, loops, arches

Q My son has a green card. Because he was under 14 at the time he applied for
the card, he did not have fingerprints taken. He is now over 14, and we have
been told that he needs to get his fingerprints taken and request a new card. I
have checked all the paperwork associated with his application, and nowhere does
it state that he would need a new card after age 14. Can you please clarify?

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 17, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

As immigrants flood L.A., the poverty rate increases

BYLINE: Pat Buchanan

SECTION: B; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 519 words


AS Congress mounts yet another attempt to grant amnesty to millions of illegal
immigrants -- as Mexican President Fox demands and President Bush insists -- the
new face of America is taking shape.

Sifting through Census data from 2000, three writers at the Los Angeles Times
have seen the new America in their own vast county. What kind of country will
our grandkids live in? If immigration is not brought under control, tomorrow's
America will resemble Los Angeles today -- a multicultural, polyglot nation,
most of whose people trace their ancestry to the Third World, and a country
where the extremes of wealth and poverty mirror the Third World.

While native-born Americans just completed two of the most prosperous decades in
our history, Los Angeles is becoming a separate nation.

* In the 1990s, poverty in Los Angeles County did not decline, it rose 28
percent. Some 1.6 million people there now live beneath the poverty line. In
Orange County, south of Los Angeles, once the bastion of Goldwater
Republicanism, the poverty rate soared 44 percent. East of Los Angeles, in the
Inland Empire counties of San Bernardino and Riverside, on the road to Palm
Desert and Nevada, poverty soared by 51 percent and 63 percent.

* In the Reagan Decade, median income in Los Angeles County rose a smart 21.5
percent. But in the Clinton decade, median income sank 8 percent from $45,600 to
$42,200. In the city of Los Angeles, it fell even further. And the new poverty
is mirrored in the dramatic population shift.

* During the 1990s, the Latino population of Los Angeles County soared 27
percent to 4.2 million. The Asian population rose by 26 percent. But the
African-American population fell 3.6 percent and the white population shrank 18
percent. More than 3 million people of Mexican ancestry now call Los Angeles
County home.

White folks are fleeing California at a rate of 100,000 a year. Black folks are
following. More than half of Los Angeles County residents -- 54 percent -- now
speak a language other than English in their homes, up from 45 percent in 1990.

And disparities in income are growing. While the total number of all
Californians earning $150,000 or more tripled to 642,000, the share of
California's people mired in poverty rose 30 percent.

High among the reasons for the decline in incomes is the death of manufacturing.
In Los Angeles County, the number of manufacturing jobs -- those high-paying
jobs that were the yellow brick road into the American middle class -- fell 32
percent, from 861,000 to 587,000.

Ruth Milkman, director of the UCLA Institute for Labor and Employment, says Los
Angeles County, whose population of 9.5 million rivals that of many U.N. member
states, is "beginning to resemble much more a Third World society where a class
of people are stuck at the bottom."

Is Los Angeles today America's tomorrow? How can it not be, when, yearly, 1.5
million legal and illegal immigrants arrive, 90 percent of them from Third World
nations where poverty is pandemic?

Pat Buchanan is a syndicated columnist and former presidential candidate.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 2, 2001 Friday

Tightening of;
Social Security card issuing protocol urged

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


All 19 terrorist hijackers in the Sept. 11 attacks had Social Security numbers
and 13 obtained them legally, the government says.

The Social Security Administration's inspector general told House members
Thursday that the government needs to tighten the process it uses to issue the
numbers.

"We have learned that the risks inherent in failing to adequately protect the
integrity of the Social Security number may have serious consequences," said
James G. Huse Jr. He has been assisting the FBI and the Justice Department with
the investigation.

The hijackers' Social Security numbers "allowed them autonomy, to operate below
the radar," he told the House Ways and Means subcommittee on Social Security.
They could open bank accounts, get credit, obtain driver's licenses and apply to
flight schools.

One glaring problem is the need for independent verification of documents that
are required to obtain a number, Huse said.

For example, there is no computer link between Social Security and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to check in a reasonable amount of time
the validity of visa status or other immigration documents that noncitizens must
submit with their applications.

"Having a secure system is critical to preventing future attacks," said Rep.
Clay E. Shaw, R-Fla., the subcommittee chairman.

Huse noted that in the terrorist investigation, a man whose name appears on an
FBI watch list was indicted in Arizona this week on charges that he lied on
Social Security and Federal Aviation Administration forms.

Also, a man held by the British government on suspicion that he trained four of
the hijackers had used the Social Security number of a New Jersey woman who has
been dead for 10 years.

"The process we have -- while well-intentioned -- is certainly not as robust as
it should be," Huse said.

Larry G. Massanari, acting Social Security commissioner, said the number of
disaster-related claims has climbed to more than 4,000, and is expected to
increase. More than half of those claims are for children who lost parents in
the attacks.

The agency has taken claims or determined eligibility for all of the families of
the 125 victims who worked at the Pentagon, and for 53 of the 64 passengers on
the American Airlines flight that crashed there.

Social Security had requested nearly $50 million to help deal with the attacks,
including processing increased claims, rebuilding the office that was near the
World Trade Center and strengthening security, Massanari said.

President Bush has allocated $7.5 million of the $20 billion he proposed in
emergency spending for disaster recovery and security needs.

Massanari said the agency will divert money from other areas to meet the
recovery needs. But that could mean that a backlog of about 40,000 disability
claims to be processed could be delayed further, he said.

Social Security supplemental checks were delayed to recipients in parts of
Louisiana, because of a late mail truck, as well as in Arkansas, Texas and New
Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              152 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 6, 2001 Tuesday

Bay Area legislators lining up behind tracking of immigrants;
'Smart visa' card with retina, face patterns unnerves civil liberties groups

BYLINE: By Lisa Friedman WASHINGTON BUREAU

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Bay Area House members are cautiously backing a measure to make foreigners carry
facial recognition cards and ban some foreigners from studying in the United
States.

The measure by Sens. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, and John Kyle, an
Arizona Republican, also would create a centralized government database covering
everyone entering the country.

Their proposal has drawn criticism from immigration and civil liberties
advocates who call it a short-sighted response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. Some said they worry the proposal will make immigrants vulnerable to
discrimination.

But Rep. Tom Lantos, D-San Mateo, who came to the United States from Hungary in
1947 said, "We are under no obligation, and I speak as an immigrant myself, to
treat foreign visitors the same as citizens."

Lantos, like other Bay Area lawmakers, stressed that the database should track
temporary residents -- foreigners entering the United States on work, tourism or
student visas -- and not those in the process of becoming permanent residents.

He also said he fully supports Feinstein's legislation, calling it a "carefully
crafted" way of tightening immigration flaws.

"It's a piece that we need," said Rep. Mike Honda, D-San Jose.

Both he and Rep. Pete Stark, D-Fremont, said they favor making the visa process
more stringent by creating what Feinstein called a "smart visa." Under her
proposal, biometric data like finger or palm prints, retina patterns or facial
structure would be added to all visas in order to make them tamper-proof.

Honda said he'd like airlines to be able to quickly cross-refer-

ence their flight manifests to make sure passengers are who they say they are.

"It's not a bad idea to have it for all folks -- domestic and immigrants," he
said. "I don't mind that. If I choose to travel, I want people to feel safe with
my presence."

Honda, however, did not endorse the logical extension -- a national
identification card. He called it "a debate we should have."

Stark opposes a national ID, but said he would support airlines selling some
type of identity cards certifying that a person is safe to fly.

Feinstein has spoken favorably of a national ID card, but said recently she's
not ready to fully endorse the concept. Her legislation focuses primarily on
identifying foreign nationals, and preventing potential terrorists from
exploiting loopholes in the immigration and visa system.

According to immigration officials, 23 million people came to the United States
last year under the "visa waiver program" that allows citizens of some countries
to travel here on tourism or business for up to 90 days without obtaining a
visa.

The government has no reliable tracking system to figure out how many people
actually left the country when their visa expired. Feinstein has been
particularly critical of the foreign student program, which she called "one of
the most under-regulated visa categories, subject to bribes and other problems
that leave it wide open to abuse by terrorists and other criminals."

No hearing date on the bill has been set, but last week Feinstein won support
from a number of Republican lawmakers, including Sens. Orrin Hatch of Utah, Kit
Bond of Missouri and Strom Thurmond of South Carolina.

A key component -- and the provision most upsetting to immigration advocates --
is the proposal of a centralized government database that would contain
information about each person entering or leaving the United States. The CIA,
FBI, immigration officials and other law enforcement agencies would be able to
enter data and share information among themselves.

In addition to basic identifying information, the database would help alert
officials if a foreign visitor's visa has expired. It remains unclear if other
information, for example a drunk driving arrest or a known association with a
criminal, might also be entered into the central files.

The bill further establishes tougher screening procedures for foreign nationals
entering the United States, with all airlines, cruise liners and cross-border
bus lines required to submit passenger manifests to the central database before
departing.

Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, called those procedures positive, but in a
statement expressed concern with another element of Feinstein's bill -- barring
all students from terrorist-sponsoring states.

"Education in the U.S. promotes democracy, and I would not want to see that
stopped," Lee said.

The State Department has identified seven world governments believed to support
terrorism: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan, Syria, North Korea and Cuba. Afghanistan is
not on the list -- yet.

Lantos said he believes students from those countries should be kept out of the
United States.

"The Iraqi government doesn't send students on the basis of scholastic merit,"
he said. "They send them because they are Iraqi government operatives."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              153 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 8, 2001 Thursday

Feds target 'dangerous' hawalas;
Local immigrants stress necessity of transfers

BYLINE: By Julissa McKinnon Jeff Chorney and Jennifer Carnig, STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 879 words


Rugs and lamps make up the display merchandise in a small shop in Fremont, but
most patrons head straight for the little square waist-high window in back.

For thousands of Afghan Americans, this window is the fastest and easiest way to
send money to relatives in refugee camps in Pakistan.

"We are like a Western Union for the refugee camps," said the business owner,
who asked to remain unidentified.

For seven years, he has run a "hawala," a Hindi word that means emergency or
quick transfer. Many immigrants here say hawalas are the best way to send home
money essential for relatives' survival.

But for terrorism investigators, hawalas -- which are legal -- are dangerous.
Hard to regulate or even find, hawalas can be so secret that not even the men
running them know who will receive the cash.

On Wednesday, the federal government carried out nationwide raids aimed at the
sources of terrorist money. Mostly targeting fund-raisers, investigators busted
several businesses and individuals, including some who ran hawalas.

Although no local hawalas were touched Wednesday, East Bay Afghans, one of the
largest such communities in the United States, worry that the crackdown
eventually will extend into their pocketbooks.

"Targeting all hawalas will just leave more innocent people dead. If we don't
send the money home, then people die. It's just that simple. They don't eat if
we don't get them the money," said Homayoun Khamosh, who does not operate a
hawala but whose Fremont Boulevard store is a hub for the local Afghan
community.

Others echoed his concerns, saying that although they understand the U.S.
government wants to thwart terrorism at its roots, hawalas are the only way to
send money to places where decades of strife have nearly killed legitimate
banks.

Andy Black, special agent in the FBI's San Francisco office, said no local
hawalas are under investigation. However, another federal investigator, who
spoke on condition of anonymity, said he wouldn't be surprised if a California
connection turns up.

According to Dr. Daud Yaar, an economics lecturer at Cal State Hayward and an
Afghan American, hawalas work like this:

Someone in the United States gives the hawala operator $105 -- $100 for a
relative in Afghanistan, for example, and $5 commission. That operator then
contacts his connection in the destination country and tells that person to give
so-and-so $100.

Both parties mark the transaction in their books and settle later with cash or,
more likely, rugs or other merchandise.

A local activist said Afghans depend on the hawala system.

Union City resident Farida Anwary is president of the Eternal Images Foundation,
a local humanitarian organization. She estimated that 99 percent of local Afghan
refugees send money back to the region.

She supports four Afghan orphan refugees living in Pakistan by sending each $25
a month. That money pays for all their food, medical and living expenses. "It's
not very much, but it keeps them alive," she said. "They'd be starving too if it
wasn't for that money."

The simple system works like more traditional wire transfer services. Immigrants
say they don't use Western Union, which holds a quasi-monopoly in the
Fremont-Hayward area, because it is barred from transmitting to Afghanistan.

According to a Western Union spokeswoman, the company also cannot send money to
Cuba, Iraq, North Korea and Iran.

The Fremont hawala operator pointed out that Western Union charges considerably
more and takes one to two weeks to get money to Pakistan, while he does it in 24
hours.

The simplicity of the hawala also makes it susceptible to terrorists' needs.
Large transfers do not have to be recorded, and often cannot be tracked. No one
checks identifications, with transactions sometimes relying on code words
instead of people's names.

"Usually the money changer does not...keep books here. This is the trick to
avoid taxes and investigators," Yaar said.

That doesn't mean the government hasn't tried. In 1994, Congress passed a law
requiring the registration of all money-transmitting businesses. With the
passage of the anti-terrorism bill two weeks ago, that law, among others, was
amended.

In language that seems directed straight at hawalas, the 1994 law now covers
"informal" networks of people outside the "conventional" financial system,
according to the anti-terrorism bill.

Because the vast majority of hawalas are legitimate and have nothing to do with
terrorism, Yaar believes operators will allow themselves to be regulated -- if
the government can find out who they are.

"You have to have a lot of on-the-ground intelligence within a community," Yaar
said.

That's something the Sept. 11 attacks clearly showed the government is lacking.
At least one local Afghan said the men in Foster Grants and dark gray suits have
been less than receptive to his tips.

"The FBI knows who is [Taliban] and who is [a Taliban] supporter here, and they
do nothing. They could stop all the money from getting there if they really
wanted to, but they ignore it," said Khamosh, the Fremont business owner. "I've
told an FBI [agent] myself, and the man just laughed."

STAFF WRITER Chris Tribbey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              154 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           November 10, 2001 Saturday

Immigrant SFO workers could lose their jobs;
85% of baggage screeners may be fired if bill passes

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 757 words


S.F. AIRPORT -- For 32 years, Sixto Eslabon scoured the hulls of ships and
combed the bellies of planes in Manila searching for smuggled goods. His sharp
eyes picked out guns, gold bars and methamphetamine.

As a bureau of customs agent in the Philippines, he was the front line
protecting his country against the drug trade and terrorists. On the side, he
did sophisticated surveillance and intelligence work.

Now, he's one of the most experienced baggage screeners at SFO -- at a time when
they are desperately needed -- but chances are good the 68-year-old San Bruno
resident will be fired.

Under the contentious airline security bills being hammered out in Congress,
baggage screeners will likely be required to be citizens of the United States.
Eslabon has only been in this country for four years -- one year short of the
requirement for citizenship.

As the debate over federalizing screeners has fixed national attention, this
other, little-discussed aspect of the bill is weighing heavily on the minds of
immigrant screeners across the country and could ultimately have a much larger
impact on their lives.

Union officials estimate about 85 percent of the 1,500 baggage screeners at SFO
are not American citizens. The majority are from the Philippines, but screeners
come from a wide swathe of the world: China, Fiji, Laos, India, Burma and
Central and South America.

They work the baggage

X-ray machines at airports, scan passengers with metal detectors and even push
passengers in wheelchairs. Many are over-qualified for the positions, having
been diplomats or military commanders in their former countries.

"I really pity these workers," said Eslabon. "They already have little to live
on."

The starting wage for a baggage screener at SFO is $10 an hour, which is high
for the industry. Nationally, baggage screeners average $6 an hour. Many -- like
Eslabon -- work two or more jobs and seven days a week to make ends meet. With
low wages and little support system far from home, losing their jobs as baggage
screeners could be devastating.

"I work this job to get through school," said Phethsamone Bouthavang, a screener
from Laos. "But most of these people, this is what they depend on to live. I
don't know what they'd do if they lost their jobs."

For U.S. Rep. Don Young, R-Alaska, who sponsored the House version of the
airline security bill, citizenship is a necessary badge for baggage screeners.

"A U.S. citizen is a person who has made a commitment to be part of this country
-- just being a legal immigrant, you don't necessarily have that type of
commitment," said Steve Hansen, a spokesman for Young.

Hansen said officials fear a terrorist might enter the country on a student visa
or by other means and get a job as a baggage screener. They then could help
other terrorists board planes with weapons or bombs.

A spokesman for the Service Employees International Union, which represents
baggage screeners at SFO, sees a striking inequality in the citizenship
requirement, which is not required by the military.

"Ironically, a non-citizen could be in the National Guard carrying a gun at an
airport right now, but you couldn't get a job as a baggage screener if this bill
passes," said Jono Schaefer. "There are 50,000 non-citizens serving in the
military."

SEIU locals across the country are making last-ditch efforts to persuade
lawmakers to do away with citizenship requirement in the bills. A petition is
circulating airport to airport. At SFO, 800 screeners have signed it, but it may
be too little, too late.

House and Senate lawmakers are negotiating a compromise to competing versions of
the security bill and hope to have a final version wrapped up by the middle of
next week. The Senate bill would create a 28,000-person federal work force of
baggage screeners. The House version of the bill would allow the U.S. government
to hire private contractors or federal employees to work as screeners.

Once Congress reaches a compromise on the bill, the final version will go to the
House and Senate for a vote and then to President Bush to sign. The legislation
was proposed in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks to tighten security in the air
and on the ground in airports.

In this time of fear and uncertainty, Daz Lamparas, a field representative for
SEIU Local 790, said Congress is looking for someone to blame.

"I think the screeners are being scapegoated," he said. "These are legal
immigrants who will not jeopardize this country. They love this country."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              155 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          November 21, 2001 Wednesday

Agency in County offers immigration, naturalization advice

BYLINE: By Chris Chang Weeks CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 1158 words


Every Tuesday and Thursday morning, they sit on the bank of plastic chairs that
lines the reception hall of Fair Oaks Community Center in Redwood City.

They come with their spouse or a supportive friend, sometimes with their infants
in strollers and clinging toddlers. They are immigrants and refugees who may or
may not be in this country with legal documents. International Institute of San
Francisco offers drop-in bilingual consultation about immigration and
naturalization advice two mornings a week at its Redwood City office.

Over the past year, 6,000 people have visited the office with their questions.

Census Bureau data indicate that 25.4 percent of San Mateo County's population
is foreign born. This number of immigrants ranks the county 20th in the country
for foreign-born nationals. Hispanic and Asian groups account for more than
two-thirds of all immigrants in San Mateo County.

The San Mateo County Programs Office of the International Institute of San
Francisco [IISF] has been serving immigrants and refugees on the Peninsula since
1974. The immigration and naturalization services are designed for low-income
clients, particularly families, who have difficulty hiring private attorneys.
Not included in the program are employment-based immigrants or students on
visas. Services are provided by accredited immigration caseworkers, qualified to
offer assistance with more than 40 different immigration procedures. Service
fees are offered on a sliding scale.

According to Sheryl Bergman, director of the San Mateo County Program, "there is
a lot of misinformation in the community about immigration procedures. What
works for one family may not work for another.

"For instance, a daughter who is born in this country, is a U.S. citizen, and
could sponsor her parents if she is over 21. Others may hear only part of the
story and not realize that the child must be at least 21 years old.

"We try to dispel the myths and provide the information our clients need to go
through the process. We typically have questions from undocumented clients on
how to get or qualify for residency papers. We also work with clients who are
waiting for their green card. It can take as long as 12 years before the INS
processes the paperwork.

"Sometimes a client may have a spouse who is being detained by the INS, and we
help refer them to a lawyer."

IISF offers a free citizenship program. The program provides individual
assessment to determine if a person is eligible for citizenship and help filling
out the INS forms. Caseworkers prepare clients for the interview, as well as
represent and advocate on behalf of clients with the INS.

Immigrants are eligible for citizenship if they have been legal permanent
residents for five years, or if married to a U.S. citizen, they are eligible in
three years. IISF wants people who are preparing for citizenship to know that
beginning January 2002, INS will raise fees to become a citizen from $250 to
$310. This fee increase can be quite significant for lower-income households.

Why should a person be interested in becoming a citizen? Bergman cites three
reasons -- you get the right to vote; a U.S. citizen can never be deported; and
it is easier and quicker for a U.S. citizen to immigrate family members.

IISF counsels around 20 people each month to become citizens.

IISF caseworkers try to sort out the complex nature of naturalization
proceedings for their clients. Maria Barraza-Calderon, a citizenship caseworker
for three years, empathizes with immigrant families who apply for citizenship.
An immigrant herself from Mexico, Barraza-Calderon knows firsthand what it takes
to become a citizen. She "likes to be there for her clients." To
Barraza-Calderon, applying for citizenship is a very personal experience.

IISF services extend beyond legal assistance. They provide community education
for newcomers and for the broader community.

IISF informs the immigrant community about immigration laws, procedures, rights
and access to public services, voter education and civic participation through
informational workshops. The organization also designs and facilitates training
to schools and human service agencies that work with immigrant clients about the
realities facing newcomers.

Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, IISF has fielded many questions from
clients regarding how the attacks will affect them.

There is general concern in the community that civil liberties will be taken
away and that racial profiling will be practiced. Bergman sees an overall change
in the perception of the immigrant community.

Bergman says, "Prior to the attacks, immigrants were seen as hardworking and
willing to take jobs that most Americans did not want. The overall perception
was that immigrants were beneficial to the economy. After the attacks, the
general public links immigrants to terrorists, especially since some who were
involved in the hijacking were out of status with the INS. This is a false
equation.

"The crack down by the INS won't necessarily keep out the terrorists in this
country, but it will keep out that mother who wants to be reunited with her
family."

IISF monitors state and federal legislation that affects the immigrant
community. Governor Gray Davis recently signed bill AB 540 that exempts
undocumented immigrants from paying out-of-state college fees if they meet
certain requirements. One bill waiting for Davis' approval is AB 60, which would
modify California Drivers' License requirements by allowing individuals in the
process of legalizing their immigration status to apply for a California Drivers
License.

As noted before, it may take up to 12 years to get one's permanent residency.
During that time a person cannot legally drive. Proponents claim the bill would
enhance public safety since unlicensed drivers endanger everyone. Moreover,
drivers who cannot obtain a license also cannot purchase auto insurance.

By educating the community at large regarding the contribution of immigrants to
U.S. society and by sensitizing the public about the special issues that
newcomers face, IISF hopes to bridge the gap between more established and newer
residents. Ultimately, IISF would like to promote cross-cultural understanding
and build inter-group relations.

The San Mateo County Programs Office of the International Institute of San
Francisco is in need of volunteers who would like to promote immigrants' rights.
English-speaking volunteers are needed to teach citizenship classes to those
preparing for their citizenship tests.

Spanish-speaking volunteers can assist permanent residents to prepare their
applications for naturalization during citizenship workshops.

For information, contact IISF at 780-7530. Interested readers who would like to
learn more about volunteer opportunities with other community based
organizations, contact the Volunteer Center of San Mateo County at 965-0334.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              156 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 30, 2001 Friday

Bush defends plan to use tribunals;
By David E. Sanger New York Times

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1168 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush on Thursday strongly defended his decision to establish military
tribunals to prosecute terrorism suspects as well as the arrest and detention of
hundreds of Middle Eastern men in the response to the Sept. 11 attacks.

Speaking to the men and women he has appointed as the country's top prosecutors,
Bush portrayed the tribunals and the detentions as necessary byproducts of
America's wartime footing. "The enemy has declared war on us," he said. "And we
must not let foreign enemies use the forms of liberty to destroy liberty
itself."

Bush also joined Attorney General John Ashcroft in promoting another tool to aid
the investigation, a program to give special immigration status -- and perhaps a
path to citizenship -- to foreigners who provide useful information about
suspected terrorist activities here or abroad.

The Responsible Cooperators Program, Bush and Ashcroft said, is designed to
provide an incentive for new arrivals in the United States, including some
illegal immigrants, to give American investigators leads in their widening
terrorism investigations.

The program already exists, and has drawn bipartisan support on Capitol Hill,
but the decision to promote it and focus it on counterterrorism was clearly part
of an effort to respond to criticism from civil liberties advocates and others
that Ashcroft is leading a roundup of foreigners, and prosecuting hundreds on
visa or other violations even if they are found to have no connection with
terrorism.

In a sign that the concern about the roundup of foreigners has spread, the
Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Maher, on Thursday protested to Secretary of
State Colin Powell that his government had not been given the names of the
several dozen Egyptian citizens arrested or detained, or told what charges they
are being held on. In an interview, he said Powell had assured him that
"Egyptians will be informed of their rights," and that Egyptian diplomats will
be given access to the detainees.

Powell echoed the offer of greater openness, but suggested there were obstacles.
"We want to be as forthcoming as we can," he said Thursday, "but we do have some
legal constraints we have to work our way through."

The detentions have come under attack from foreign governments, immigrants and
civil liberties groups here. They include FBI requests to interview about 5,000
men, mostly from the Middle East, who have recently entered the United States;
listening in on the conversations between lawyers and some jailed defendants;
and the president's decision to grant himself the right to decide whether to use
military tribunals to try terrorism suspects.

Speaking to the newly appointed prosecutors in the Eisenhower Executive Office
Building, Bush defended the tribunals by characterizing terror suspects as
"combatants."

"Non-U.S. citizens who plan and/or commit mass murder are more than criminal
suspects," he said. "They are unlawful combatants who seek to destroy our
country and our way of life."

Bush's defense came on a day when speculation was rife that he may soon have his
first chance to create a military tribunal as a result of what officials said
was the capture of a member of al-Qaida in Afghanistan. The man, Ahmed
Abdel-Rahman, is a son of a cleric who was convicted in 1995 of plotting to blow
up New York landmarks.

Vice President Dick Cheney said in an interview on ABC on Thursday night that he
believed the suspect was in the hands of anti-Taliban rebels, and said American
interrogators were sorting out whom the rebels are holding.

White House officials said that this was exactly the kind of case Bush had in
mind when he signed the executive order giving himself the option of creating a
tribunal that could convict with a two-thirds vote of military judges.

The trials may be open to the public, White House officials say, but could be
closed to protect classified information, or information the government
determines could be helpful to the enemy. Ari Fleischer, the White House
spokesman, said Thursday that the Justice and Defense departments were working
out guidelines that would govern how the tribunals would operate, if the
president orders that one is convened.

At the White House, Fleischer likened the program that would give special
immigration status to foreigners who provide information about terrorism to
federal offers of cash rewards for information leading to the arrest of a wanted
suspect. [There is a $25 million reward for information leading to the capture
of Osama bin Laden.] But in this case, in lieu of cash, the government is
offering the right to stay in the United States and perhaps the prospect of
obtaining a green card.

Ashcroft said of the program, "It is designed to say to people that if you would
like to have an improved visa status for your own presence in the United States
and a pathway to citizenship, one of the ways you can do that is by providing
reliable and useful information about terrorism."

In his appearance before the prosecutors, Bush was more direct. "We're
interviewing people on a voluntary basis," he said. "We're saying, 'Welcome to
America. You come to our country, why don't you help make us safe? Why don't you
share information with us? Why don't you help protect innocent people, women and
children?"

But immigration experts note that while people who came forward under the
program might get help and a better visa status, under other memorandums issued
by federal authorities in recent weeks, they could also be held on minor visa
violations.

[STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS.]

It was also unclear whether Bush's invitation to foreigners would tamp down the
concerns of diplomats here that the United States is sweeping up foreigners
simply because they fit a terrorist profile.

Lebanon's ambassador here, Farid Abboud, said Thursday, "It seems to us to be a
big dragnet and fishing spree." He noted that "they are not giving us names" of
those arrested; he learned about the charges against one Lebanese detainee only
after his embassy spoke to authorities in Pennsylvania. At the same time, he
praised the Bush administration for making efforts to assure Muslims that they
are not being targeted. He also noted that Bush had invited him to a Ramadan
meal.

"It was quite nice to have a Muslim sheik saying a prayer in the White House,"
the ambassador said.

Ashcroft, for his part, has spent the past two days trying to infuse the new
U.S. attorneys, here for a week of study and orientation, with the enormity of
their jobs at a time of war against terrorism. On Tuesday night he walked them
from one monument on the Mall to another, so that they would soak in the words
of Jefferson and Lincoln. Then, Thursday morning, he took them to the Pentagon,
to see the site of the Sept. 11 attack on the building. "We need the intensity
and emotion that comes from visiting the largest crime scene ever visited on
Washington, D.C.," he told the prosecutors.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              157 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 7, 2001 Friday

S.F. recognizes Mexican consular IDs

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 825 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Hundreds of Mexican nationals have been lining up around the block outside their
consulate to get identification cards after the city became the first in the
nation to officially accept the consular IDs as legal documents.

San Francisco's Board of Supervisors passed the resolution unanimously last
month, and Mayor Willie Brown signed it Tuesday, prompting an immediate and
enthusiastic response among Mexican immigrants. Each day since, they've lined up
by the hundreds to get documented.

The cards -- which have a photograph, legal address, birthplace and signature --
won't help immigrants with the federal or state governments, but inside the city
of San Francisco, they promise to make life easier in a number of ways.

The plan was sponsored by Supervisor Gerardo Sandoval, a former public defender
who saw a need for some type of ID card for non-citizens. He said police were
picking up immigrants on minor offenses and sometimes holding them for days
simply because they lacked proper identification.

The card also reduces the hassle and expense of wiring money to family members
in other countries. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo Bank accepts it, allowing
non-citizens to set up bank accounts and distribute ATM cards to family members.

who can withdraw funds in Mexico without paying high fees.

But it won't help immigrants who aren't complying with Immigration and
Naturalization Service rules, agency spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said.

"All the matricula consular does is identify you of a citizen of Mexico. That's
all you can expect from it," she said. "If you're out of status and you get that
you're still out of status."

Mexican consulates in the U.S. have been issuing consular IDs for some 20 years.
Whether to recognize these cards has been a decision made locally by police in
cities across the United States. San Francisco is the first to make such
recognition a matter of city law, said Consul General Georgina Lagos, Mexico's
top representative in Northern California.

"The consular ID does not have any intrinsic benefit per se; the benefit it has
is the recognition or validity authorities will give to it," said Lagos, who
worked for months to develop a screening process, including fingerprints, and a
tough-to-fake card that satisfies San Francisco police.

Other countries' consulates in San Francisco have shown interest in the cards,
and Lagos said she's working with other cities and counties in Northern
California to expand the idea.

"Before there was only an informal agreement between the consulate and the
police or sheriff's department. Now it no longer will be left at the
authorities' discretion," said Lagos.

Many of the immigrants in line Tuesday were confused about just what they would
be able to do with the cards. Many, like Sotero Rosas, mistakenly thought it
would help otherwise undocumented immigrants get California drivers' licenses or
car insurance.

"I am not really aware of the benefits but if they are saying it will be good I
have nothing to lose," said Rosas, who came to the San Francisco Bay area from
Veracruz, Mexico, two years ago, and was wearing a neck collar after a car
accident.

Francisco Herrera, also from Veracruz, brought his wife and two children to the
consulate for the same reasons. A construction worker who has lived in the Bay
Area for six years, he said neither he nor his wife have proper U.S.
documentation.

Sandoval said it's important for users to understand the card is only valid in
San Francisco and is not a substitute for a driver's license or a passport
necessary to fly or cross borders.

Some advocates of limiting immigration have expressed concern that San
Francisco's new policy will encourage illegal immigration. Rick Oltman of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform told the San Francisco Chronicle that
police should arrest its bearers as illegal immigrants.

But San Francisco police say they have no duty to enforce federal laws, and
Lagos said it's simply the consulate's duty to protect its nationals, regardless
of their legal status in the United States.

Furthermore, the card has more security measures -- and is more useful -- than
other forms of ID, she said. It not only helps illegal immigrants, but also
people with valid visas.

"This is the credential the U.S. State Department gave me," said Lagos showing
her diplomatic credential "As you can see it does not have a digital photo, it
is too big to fit in my wallet, it is easy to forge and banks don't accept it."

Sandoval hopes San Francisco will serve as a model for other cities and possibly
to Gov. Gray Davis whom he hopes will drop the proof of citizenship requirement
necessary to get a California driver's license.

"We're looking at broader issues like NAFTA and the integration of two
societies," Sandoval said. "In Europe, it would not make sense if a Spaniard
went to France and the French would not accept his ID card."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              158 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 20, 2001 Thursday

Tyson managers face INS charges

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 438 words


CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. -- Six executives and managers of Tyson Foods Inc. were
accused Wednesday of smuggling illegal Mexican immigrants into the country to
work at the processing plants of the world's largest poultry company.

The federal indictment said one of the managers told an undercover agent the
company would pay $200 for each illegal alien delivered.

The indictment, unsealed Wednesday, also said the managers helped the immigrants
obtain false documents to work in the United States, hoping the cheap labor
would help Tyson cut costs and meet production goals.

The conspiracy allegedly reached 15 plants in nine states. Three of those
charged were affiliated with Tyson's plant in Shelbyville.

Tyson spokesman Ken Kimbro said the charges were limited to a few managers who
acted on their own. He said four have been fired and two others were placed on
leave pending the outcome of the case.

"This indictment came because Tyson refused to agree to the prosecutor's
outrageous financial demands," Kimbro said. The Arkansas-based company refused
to elaborate on the alleged demands.

Tyson is one of the world's largest poultry, beef and pork processors, with
120,000 employees and sales last year of $23.8 billion.

The indictment came after a 21/2-year undercover investigation by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"This case represents the first time the INS has taken action against a company
of Tyson's magnitude," said James Ziglar, INS commissioner.

According to prosecutors, undercover agents working for Tyson were directed by
company managers to pick up immigrants at the Mexican border and take them to
processing plants. They were allegedly reimbursed for "recruitment" expenses.

Prosecutors would not say how many immigrants were involved.

Robert Hash, vice president of Tyson's retail fresh division, and Gerald
Lankford, a former human resources manager of the division, were charged, along
with three former managers at the Shelbyville plant and a manager in Noel, Mo.,
who used to work in Shelbyville.

In the past, Tyson officials have downplayed the company's role in the booming
Hispanic populations near its plants. Bedford County, where the Shelbyville
plant is situated, is home to Tennessee's highest concentration of Hispanics,
according to 2000 census figures.

Importing illegal aliens for commercial advantage can carry a mandatory minimum
sentence of five years in prison.

Prosecutors are also seeking forfeiture of the financial gain realized by Tyson
Foods and its managers.

Tyson stock fell 73 cents to 10.86 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              159 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 21, 2001 Friday

Most airline screeners won't meet citizenship deadline;
Workers told at SFO meeting that only about 25% will qualify

BYLINE: By Jean Whitney STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 400 words


S.F. AIRPORT -- Airport security screeners meeting Thursday with local union
leaders and Immigration and Naturalization Service attorneys at San Francisco
International Airport discovered that barely a fourth could qualify for
citizenship by the Feb. 19 deadline set by the Airport Security Act.

Labor officials of Service Employees International Union Local 790 confirmed
that three-quarters of SFO's security screeners were ineligible because of a
five-year residency requirement.

The majority are living and working in the U.S. on immigrant visas and are four
years out from citizenship. Eight out of 10 workers are Filipino, according to
labor organizer Daz Lamparas. There are 28,000 security screeners at 400
airports around the nation that would be affected by the new law.

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein recently introduced an amendment that would allow for
non-citizens with citizenship applications pending to keep their jobs with the
federal government as airport security screeners, but again, labor leaders say
most workers still would not qualify under residency rules.

"Is U.S. citizenship a guarantee of security?" asked one screener, Bienvenido
Conanan, who said he and his wife both work in airport security.

They have been in the U.S. for 19 months. They earn $13 an hour.

"This is a big blow," Conanan said. "Come Feb. 19, we will be kicked out. We are
dead serious about our job. We waited 20 years to come here."

And Conanan said many immigrants delay applying for citizenship because it comes
with a price -- an additional five-year wait to bring children over to the U.S.

Others gathered at SFO said they will apply for citizenship. One screener said
she would apply after 13 years on the job and another said yes to citizenship
after seven years.

"I want to keep the job," said a Daly City resident.

Airport officials worry how they would replace all but an estimated 200 security
workers out of some 700 immigrant workers of the 1,200 at SFO, come Feb. 19.

A federal pilot program would allow five airports in the country to continue
contracting out for security over another year.

But local union leaders said they will seek legal remedies if the law goes into
effect and hundreds lose their jobs.

"It's just immigrant-bashing," said Lamparas.

You can reach

STAFF WRITER Jean Whitney at 306-2425 or by e-mail at countytimes@hotmail.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              160 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 21, 2001 Friday

Most airline screeners won't meet citizenship deadline;
Workers told at SFO meeting that only about 25% will qualify

BYLINE: By Jean Whitney STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 400 words


S.F. AIRPORT -- Airport security screeners meeting Thursday with local union
leaders and Immigration and Naturalization Service attorneys at San Francisco
International Airport discovered that barely a fourth could qualify for
citizenship by the Feb. 19 deadline set by the Airport Security Act.

Labor officials of Service Employees International Union Local 790 confirmed
that three-quarters of SFO's security screeners were ineligible because of a
five-year residency requirement.

The majority are living and working in the U.S. on immigrant visas and are four
years out from citizenship. Eight out of 10 workers are Filipino, according to
labor organizer Daz Lamparas. There are 28,000 security screeners at 400
airports around the nation that would be affected by the new law.

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein recently introduced an amendment that would allow for
non-citizens with citizenship applications pending to keep their jobs with the
federal government as airport security screeners, but again, labor leaders say
most workers still would not qualify under residency rules.

"Is U.S. citizenship a guarantee of security?" asked one screener, Bienvenido
Conanan, who said he and his wife both work in airport security.

They have been in the U.S. for 19 months. They earn $13 an hour.

"This is a big blow," Conanan said. "Come Feb. 19, we will be kicked out. We are
dead serious about our job. We waited 20 years to come here."

And Conanan said many immigrants delay applying for citizenship because it comes
with a price -- an additional five-year wait to bring children over to the U.S.

Others gathered at SFO said they will apply for citizenship. One screener said
she would apply after 13 years on the job and another said yes to citizenship
after seven years.

"I want to keep the job," said a Daly City resident.

Airport officials worry how they would replace all but an estimated 200 security
workers out of some 700 immigrant workers of the 1,200 at SFO, come Feb. 19.

A federal pilot program would allow five airports in the country to continue
contracting out for security over another year.

But local union leaders said they will seek legal remedies if the law goes into
effect and hundreds lose their jobs.

"It's just immigrant-bashing," said Lamparas.

You can reach

STAFF WRITER Jean Whitney at 306-2425 or by e-mail at countytimes@hotmail.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              161 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 23, 2001 Sunday

The government's 'secret' weapon against terrorism

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 2117 words


Harpal Singh has been in jail for four years. But he has not been charged with
any crime.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has accused Singh of being a
terrorist. And that's about all the onetime Union City resident and India native
knows about the case the service has against him, because its evidence is
classified.

INS officials claim they have had the right to use classified, or "secret,"
evidence to hold and deport immigrants since the 1950s, in order to protect
intelligence sources. The practice of using such evidence, particularly to
detain immigrants, faded after officials lost a string of high-profile cases in
the 1990s.

But civil libertarians fear that in the current climate, the number of cases
where such evidence is used could rise. In fact, the Justice Department in
October asked a federal appeals court to affirm its right to use secret evidence
in cases where it seeks to hold or deport immigrants they say are here
illegally.

In an Oct. 23 brief, the department's lawyers asked the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals to reaffirm a 1974 case allowing the use of secret evidence, saying that
it "would enhance the Government's ability to attack terrorist infrastructure by
revitalizing this important executive authority."

The court decided the case, which predated the Sept. 11 attacks, without
addressing the question of secret evidence.

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson said the department does not intend to
use secret evidence in any new cases. "We've abided by the president's pledge
that he made at his campaign last year. He opposed the use of secret evidence,"
Nelson said.

But INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said it's too soon to tell whether his agency
will increase its use of secret evidence beyond the 10 to 12 cases each year in
which such evidence is introduced.

And experts said recent moves to close immigration hearings to the press and
public and questions about immigration judges' security clearances point to the
possibility that the use of secret evidence may be on the rise.

Difficult to defend against

Opponents of secret evidence said it's impossible to defend people in cases
where it is used, and have questioned both the legality of the practice and the
value of the evidence being withheld. And they said that the use of secret
evidence has disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims.

"We still have no idea what they're alleging. There's reams of evidence we
haven't seen," said Bob Jobe, the San Francisco lawyer representing Singh in his
attempts to gain political asylum in the United States, which began over a
decade ago.

Singh fled India in 1993 after being jailed and tortured several times by the
Indian government due to his efforts to get a separate Sikh state in India,
according to his attorney and court documents. After a stop in New York, he said
he came to Union City where he had friends to live with. He was jailed by the
INS in 1997 following a hearing.

An immigration judge denied Singh's asylum claim in December 1999, due in part
to the evidence presented against him - evidence that neither Singh nor his
lawyer have seen. The case is currently under appeal by both Singh and the INS.

Jobe fears Singh could be killed for his political beliefs if returned to India,
and says there's no way he can properly defend his client without seeing this
evidence.

"In a case like this where you've got a man's life at stake, you've got to see
the evidence," said Jobe. "It's unfathomable to me that you could send a man to
die using this procedure."

Intelligence needs protecting

But the government needs the right to use secret evidence in order to safeguard
intelligence sources, said Jack Martin, special projects director for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C.

"It's pretty difficult to penetrate this type of terrorist activity with
informants," Martin said of the Sept. 11 attacks. "And yet that is vitally
important, if we are going to have advance notice of this type of plotting going
on in this country, if we are going to protect the American public."

And officials have been forced to drop deportation proceedings to avoid
revealing confidential information sources, Martin said.

Bergeron said the courts have long given his agency the right to use classified
evidence, a claim some advocates dispute. But despite the fact that INS
officials have defended their right to use such evidence before Congress, he
said it's not up to them to decide whether it has the right to use classified
evidence in immigration proceedings.

"I don't think it's our role to engage in that philosophical argument. That is
an argument that needs to be decided by Congress and the courts," Bergeron said.

A 2000 bill to end the use of secret evidence in immigration proceedings,
co-sponsored by former U.S. Rep Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, stalled in committee.

But Georgetown law professor David Cole, whose Miami case the Justice Department
used to ask for greater rights to use secret evidence, said the use of such
evidence is unnecessary because the government has been able to try suspected
terrorists in public court. For instance, the Justice Department announced
recently that it will try terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in federal court.

"That shows that we can try terrorists and afford them basic due process
rights," Cole said. "We have done it in very serious cases, and with Zacarias
Moussaoui. Why can't we do it in cases where immigrants are not charged with a
terrorist act?"

Evidence called weak

Hussein Ibish, spokesman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in
Washington, D.C., accused the government of using their right to classify
evidence simply to bolster weak cases.

"Secret evidence is not judiciously used for protecting diplomatic secrets. It
is in fact used when the government's case is too shaky to withstand challenge,"
Ibish said.

For proof, Ibish pointed to cases involving several Iraqi men who participated
in CIA-funded efforts to overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein but were accused
of terrorism and espionage when they arrived in the United States.

Former CIA director James Woolsey, now a Washington, D.C. attorney who
represented some of the men, was able to get much of the secret evidence against
his clients, including Dr. Ali Yassin Mohammad Karim, declassified.

"It was junk," Woolsey said of the evidence he saw. "One [government witness]
mistook the Iran-Iraq war for the Gulf War. Another said that Arabs lie a lot.

"Another confused the clan name with the last name. They thought Dr. Ali was
hiding his last name, but no one in Iraq uses clan names," said Woolsey, who
added that he supports the use of classified evidence but thinks defense
attorneys should be cleared to view it. "It goes on and on. it was really an
embarrassment to the government."

Another man was accused of trying to hide the fact that he was a member of a
Kurdish liberation movement that didn't exist, said Niels Frenzen, a law
professor at the University of Southern California and Woolsey's co-counsel on
the case.

The man spent over a year in jail on that charge, which was the result of a
mix-up between the military translator who spoke to the man and an FBI agent
involved in the case.

"This man was separated from his [family] based on this stupid mistake made by
the FBI," Frenzen said. "It's one of the silliest examples of things that
happened in these cases. But it shows all of the things going on behind our
backs."

Cole said that for more than a dozen people he has represented in immigration
proceedings involving classified evidence, the charges have never amounted to
more than guilt by association.

"In virtually every one of these cases, there was no claim that the individuals
engaged in any kind of violent activity. The claim was that they associated with
bad groups," Cole said.

And the use of such evidence disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims,
experts said. In 1998, the Justice Department listed some 25 people with cases
based at least in part on secret evidence, nearly all of them Arab or Muslim,
said Cole.

"I never saw the government, for example, detaining supporters or associates of
the Irish Republican Army on secret evidence, absent some charge that the person
was engaged violent activity," said Cole.

'Terrorist' definition debated

The INS says that Singh helped recruit militants fighting for an independent
Sikh state in India, raised funds for them, provided material support and helped
to plan terrorist actions.

It also accused Singh's wife, Rajwinder Kaur, of conspiring to engage in alien
smuggling, immigration fraud and of having direct knowledge of her husband's
alleged terrorist activity.

Singh and his attorney, Jobe, succeeded in refuting the only direct charge
against Singh, that he served as a "communications link" in the 1991 kidnapping
of a Romanian diplomat. They said that Singh spoke out against the diplomat's
kidnapping and worked for his safe return.

But the rest of the allegations "were too vague to refute in a systematic way,"
Jobe said.

Speaking from Yuba County Jail - one of several jails Singh has spent time in
since the INS detained him in 1997 - Singh said he did help raise funds for the
family members of Sikhs slain by the Indian government and that he passed along
the phone numbers of militant groups to those who expressed an interest in
sending funds to them.

But Singh, a factory owner and lawyer in India, said that what he's doing isn't
terrorism but fighting for a legitimate political goal: An independent state for
Sikhs in India's Punjab region, known as Khalistan.

"What is the meaning to America's security? It is only between me and my nation
and not the American government," Singh said.

The agency did not offer a comment on Singh's case. San Francisco INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, whose office is handling Singh's case, said the
agency does not comment on pending cases.

While the INS says Singh is a terrorist, others claim his push for an
independent Sikh state in India is purely political. In court papers, one leader
of the so-called Khalistani movement likened Singh's role in the movement to
that of Gerry Adams, who heads the political arm of the Irish liberation
struggle.

The new definitions of terrorism could cover a variety of previously allowed
political activities, advocates argued, including brick-throwing by protesters
at World Trade Organization events or destruction of property by currently
accepted political parties like the African National Congress.

While in jail, Singh was named president of the Sikh Youth of America, a
national lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C., Jobe said. Prior to
that, he had been in regular contact with human rights groups and members of the
Indian parliament.

Singh may drop claim

The judge who originally decided Singh's case in December 1999, U.S. Immigration
Judge Dana Marks Keener, decided that the information he provided about being
detained and tortured by the Indian government was credible enough to withhold
his deportation to India. She said neither Singh nor his wife could be
considered a danger to the U.S.

Keener also questioned INS assertions that Singh helped plan and support
terrorist activities, noting that the U.S. government has not filed criminal
charges against Singh and that the Indian government has not asked for his
extradition. She said the INS's classified evidence in the case consisted of
"layer upon layer of hearsay."

But despite expressing "strong reservations" about the INS's use of secret
evidence in Singh's case, Keener denied his asylum claim based on it, saying the
evidence contradicted some of Singh's testimony. Both the INS and Jobe are
appealing Keener's ruling.

Singh's wife was granted asylum, despite the INS's assertion that she knew of
Singh's alleged activities and engaged in alien smuggling and immigration fraud.
The INS is also appealing Kaur's case, but she is not in custody.

In the meantime, Singh is considering dropping his asylum claim and heading back
to India, despite the risks. His movement for an independent Sikh state is all
but dead, experts said, but Singh is one of the few members of it still at risk
in India, one testified.

Jobe is fighting in federal court to get Singh released from prison while he
works on his appeal and has said that the INS is keeping him there to pressure
him to drop his claim.

"If I am in America, I am in jail, for four or five years, anyway. So what is my
choice?" Singh said. "I'm thinking India and America have the same rules and
regulations. There is no justice over here."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              162 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 25, 2001 Tuesday

India native spends 4 years in jail with no charges filed;
Secret evidence used against immigrants raises fears

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 2124 words


Harpal Singh has been in jail for four years. But he has not been charged with
any crime.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has accused Singh of being a
terrorist. And that's about all the onetime Union City resident and India native
knows about the case the service has against him, because its evidence is
classified.

INS officials claim they have had the right to use classified, or "secret,"
evidence to hold and deport immigrants since the 1950s, in order to protect
intelligence sources. The practice of using such evidence, particularly to
detain immigrants, faded after officials lost a string of high-profile cases in
the 1990s.

But civil libertarians fear that in the current climate, the number of cases
where such evidence is used could rise. In fact, the Justice Department in
October asked a federal appeals court to affirm its right to use secret evidence
in cases where it seeks to hold or deport immigrants they say are here
illegally.

In an Oct. 23 brief, the department's lawyers asked the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals to reaffirm a 1974 case allowing the use of secret evidence, saying that
it "would enhance the Government's ability to attack terrorist infrastructure by
revitalizing this important executive authority."

The court decided the case, which predated the Sept. 11 attacks, without
addressing the question of secret evidence.

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson said the department does not intend to
use secret evidence in any new cases. "We've abided by the president's pledge
that he made at his campaign last year. He opposed the use of secret evidence,"
Nelson said.

But INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said it's too soon to tell whether his agency
will increase its use of secret evidence beyond the 10 to 12 cases each year in
which such evidence is introduced.

And experts said recent moves to close immigration hearings to the press and
public and questions about immigration judges' security clearances point to the
possibility that the use of secret evidence may be on the rise.

Difficult to defend against

Opponents of secret evidence said it's impossible to defend people in cases
where it is used, and have questioned both the legality of the practice and the
value of the evidence being withheld. And they said that the use of secret
evidence has disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims.

"We still have no idea what they're alleging. There's reams of evidence we
haven't seen," said Bob Jobe, the San Francisco lawyer representing Singh in his
attempts to gain political asylum in the United States, which began over a
decade ago.

Singh fled India in 1993 after being jailed and tortured several times by the
Indian government due to his efforts to get a separate Sikh state in India,
according to his attorney and court documents. After a stop in New York, he said
he came to Union City where he had friends to live with. He was jailed by the
INS in 1997 following a hearing.

An immigration judge denied Singh's asylum claim in December 1999, due in part
to the evidence presented against him -- evidence that neither Singh nor his
lawyer have seen. The case is currently under appeal by both Singh and the INS.

Jobe fears Singh could be killed for his political beliefs if returned to India,
and says there's no way he can properly defend his client without seeing this
evidence.

"In a case like this where you've got a man's life at stake, you've got to see
the evidence," said Jobe. "It's unfathomable to me that you could send a man to
die using this procedure."

Intelligence needs protecting

But the government needs the right to use secret evidence in order to safeguard
intelligence sources, said Jack Martin, special projects director for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C.

"It's pretty difficult to penetrate this type of terrorist activity with
informants," Martin said of the Sept. 11 attacks. "And yet that is vitally
important, if we are going to have advance notice of this type of plotting going
on in this country, if we are going to protect the American public."

And officials have been forced to drop deportation proceedings to avoid
revealing confidential information sources, Martin said.

Bergeron said the courts have long given his agency the right to use classified
evidence, a claim some advocates dispute. But despite the fact that INS
officials have defended their right to use such evidence before Congress, he
said it's not up to them to decide whether it has the right to use classified
evidence in immigration proceedings.

"I don't think it's our role to engage in that philosophical argument. That is
an argument that needs to be decided by Congress and the courts," Bergeron said.

A 2000 bill to end the use of secret evidence in immigration proceedings,
co-sponsored by former U.S. Rep Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, stalled in committee.

But Georgetown law professor David Cole, whose Miami case the Justice Department
used to ask for greater rights to use secret evidence, said the use of such
evidence is unnecessary because the government has been able to try suspected
terrorists in public court. For instance, the Justice Department announced
recently that it will try terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in federal court.

"That shows that we can try terrorists and afford them basic due process
rights," Cole said. "We have done it in very serious cases, and with Zacarias
Moussaoui. Why can't we do it in cases where immigrants are not charged with a
terrorist act?"

Evidence called weak

Hussein Ibish, spokesman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in
Washington, D.C., accused the government of using their right to classify
evidence simply to bolster weak cases.

"Secret evidence is not judiciously used for protecting diplomatic secrets. It
is in fact used when the government's case is too shaky to withstand challenge,"
Ibish said.

For proof, Ibish pointed to cases involving several Iraqi men who participated
in CIA-funded efforts to overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein but were accused
of terrorism and espionage when they arrived in the United States.

Former CIA director James Woolsey, now a Washington, D.C. attorney who
represented some of the men, was able to get much of the secret evidence against
his clients, including Dr. Ali Yassin Mohammad Karim, declassified.

"It was junk," Woolsey said of the evidence he saw. "One [government witness]
mistook the Iran-Iraq war for the Gulf War. Another said that Arabs lie a lot.

"Another confused the clan name with the last name. They thought Dr. Ali was
hiding his last name, but no one in Iraq uses clan names," said Woolsey, who
added that he supports the use of classified evidence but thinks defense
attorneys should be cleared to view it. "It goes on and on. it was really an
embarrassment to the government."

Another man was accused of trying to hide the fact that he was a member of a
Kurdish liberation movement that didn't exist, said Niels Frenzen, a law
professor at the University of Southern California and Woolsey's co-counsel on
the case.

The man spent over a year in jail on that charge, which was the result of a
mix-up between the military translator who spoke to the man and an FBI agent
involved in the case.

"This man was separated from his [family] based on this stupid mistake made by
the FBI," Frenzen said. "It's one of the silliest examples of things that
happened in these cases. But it shows all of the things going on behind our
backs."

Cole said that for more than a dozen people he has represented in immigration
proceedings involving classified evidence, the charges have never amounted to
more than guilt by association.

"In virtually every one of these cases, there was no claim that the individuals
engaged in any kind of violent activity. The claim was that they associated with
bad groups," Cole said.

And the use of such evidence disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims,
experts said. In 1998, the Justice Department listed some 25 people with cases
based at least in part on secret evidence, nearly all of them Arab or Muslim,
said Cole.

"I never saw the government, for example, detaining supporters or associates of
the Irish Republican Army on secret evi- dence, absent some charge that the
person was engaged in violent activity," said Cole.

'Terrorist' definition debated

The INS says that Singh helped recruit militants fighting for an independent
Sikh state in India, raised funds for them, provided material support and helped
to plan terrorist actions.

It also accused Singh's wife, Rajwinder Kaur, of conspiring to engage in alien
smuggling, immigration fraud and of having direct knowledge of her hus-band's
alleged terrorist activity.

Singh and his attorney, Jobe, succeeded in refuting the only direct charge
against Singh, that he served as a "communications link" in the 1991 kidnapping
of a Romanian diplomat. They said that Singh spoke out against the diplomat's
kidnapping and worked for his safe return.

But the rest of the allegations "were too vague to refute in a systematic way,"
Jobe said.

Speaking from Yuba County Jail -- one of several jails Singh has spent time in
since the INS detained him in 1997 -- Singh said he did help raise funds for the
family members of Sikhs slain by the Indian government and that he passed along
the phone numbers of militant groups to those who expressed an interest in
sending funds to them.

But Singh, a factory owner and lawyer in India, said that what he's doing isn't
terrorism but fighting for a legitimate political goal: An independent state for
Sikhs in India's Punjab region, known as Khalistan.

"What is the meaning to America's security? It is only between me and my nation
and not the American government," Singh said.

The agency did not offer a comment on Singh's case. San Francisco INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, whose office is handling Singh's case, said the
agency does not comment on pending cases.

While the INS says Singh is a terrorist, others claim his push for an
independent Sikh state in India is purely political. In court papers, one leader
of the so-called Khalistani movement likened Singh's role in the movement to
that of Gerry Adams, who heads the political arm of the Irish liberation
struggle.

The new definitions of terrorism could cover a variety of previously allowed
political activities, advocates argued, including brick-throwing by protesters
at World Trade Organization events or destruction of property by currently
accepted political parties like the African National Congress.

While in jail, Singh was named president of the Sikh Youth of America, a
national lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C., Jobe said. Prior to
that, he had been in regular contact with human rights groups and members of the
Indian parliament.

Singh may drop claim

The judge who originally decided Singh's case in December 1999, U.S. Immigration
Judge Dana Marks Keener, decided that the information he provided about being
detained and tortured by the Indian government was credible enough to withhold
his deportation to India. She said neither Singh nor his wife could be
considered a danger to the U.S.

Keener also questioned INS assertions that Singh helped plan and support
terrorist activities, noting that the U.S. government has not filed criminal
charges against Singh and that the Indian government has not asked for his
extradition. She said the INS's classified evidence in the case consisted of
"layer upon layer of hearsay."

But despite expressing "strong reservations" about the INS's use of secret
evidence in Singh's case, Keener denied his asylum claim based on it, saying the
evidence contradicted some of Singh's testimony. Both the INS and Jobe are
appealing Keener's ruling.

Singh's wife was granted asylum, despite the INS's assertion that she knew of
Singh's alleged activities and engaged in alien smuggling and immigration fraud.
The INS is also appealing Kaur's case, but she is not in custody.

In the meantime, Singh is considering dropping his asylum claim and heading back
to India, despite the risks. His movement for an independent Sikh state is all
but dead, experts said, but Singh is one of the few members of it still at risk
in India, one testified.

Jobe is fighting in federal court to get Singh released from prison while he
works on his appeal and has said that the INS is keeping him there to pressure
him to drop his claim.

"If I am in America, I am in jail, for four or five years, anyway. So what is my
choice?" Singh said. "I'm thinking India and America have the same rules and
regulations. There is no justice over here."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              163 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 27, 2001 Thursday

INS quirk keeps Salvadorans, Guatemalans waiting;
Some estimate backlog could last up to 20 years By Erica Werner The Associated
Press

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


El Salvador's savage civil war drove Roberto and Margarita Herrador north to the
United States in search of a safe haven for their family. They found it in a
country that, after 15 years, still won't accept them.

The Herradors and their three daughters are among tens of thousands of
Salvadoran and Guatemalan war refugees whose applications for permanent
residency, the first step toward citizenship, are languishing in INS files
though their eligibility was guaranteed by an act of Congress.

A peculiarity in Immigration and Naturalization Service procedures is creating a
large and growing backlog of applications, and agency officials estimate it will
take 20 years to get through them.

That's an eternity for families like the Herradors, who have spent years seeking
their promised residency under first one program, then another.

"There are a lot of people whose lives are on hold because of these delays,"
said Robert J. Foss, legal director of the Central American Resource Center.
"The INS is failing in a very big way around a group of people who have already
been through the wringer more than once."

The people affected have been in this country for more than a decade, and most
came to escape civil war. Their lives are burdened in countless ways because
they don't have green cards, the proof of permanent residency.

"It's created this sort of double standard for us. We have to do double the work
to get anything done than the average citizen," said Ingrid Herrador, 25, in an
interview in the family's small apartment in Mar Vista, a working class
community just behind Venice Beach. "And even though we do all of that and could
be really good for this society we have all these obstacles that make it almost
impossible."

Ingrid was accepted by the University of California, Santa Cruz, in 1995 but
couldn't go because she was ineligible for in-state tuition and student aid.

The family's legal status prevented Margarita from returning to El Salvador when
her mother and then her sister died.

Daughter Claudia, 28, must put off her dream of joining the Peace Corps until
her case is resolved.

Roberto, a trained accountant, has worked as a cashier at a gas station for more
than a decade and now makes $8 an hour. Career advancement is difficult for a
nonresident with a yearly work permit.

In El Salvador, Margarita and Roberto saw fellow activists in the Catholic
church brutally murdered by death squads and the military, and feared for their
own lives. Their daughters remember cowering inside as gun battles raged, and
finding scattered body parts while playing near their house.

Sudden noises still make Ingrid cringe.

"We were forced to come, because we were suffering many things. We had no
choice," Margarita said, speaking in Spanish.

"But we didn't want to be in the situation we are in now."

The Herrador family is eligible for permanent residency under the Nicaraguan
Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, known as Nacara, passed by Congress
in 1997. A different provision of the act applied to Nicaraguans and Cubans;
their application process is much less stringent and most of their cases have
been resolved.

Those eligible had to, among other things, arrive in this country before 1990,
live here continuously for seven years and demonstrate good moral character.

There are millions of Salvadorans and Guatemalans living in the United States.
Roughly 300,000 are eligible under Nacara and about 100,000 have filed
applications.

The delay in processing Nacara claims comes down to a quirk of INS bureaucracy.

Nacara applications are processed by the INS Asylum Division, which handles
three other types of cases -- asylum seekers, new arrivals to the United States
who have a credible fear of returning home and refugees overseas. The INS is
required by law to process some of these cases quickly, and classifies them as a
higher priority than the Nacara cases.

Asylum and refugee cases are processed first. This fiscal year, that will take
about 95 percent of the agency's time and manpower, leaving just 5 percent to
handle Nacara cases, according to agency estimates.

With the asylum and refugee workload growing, only 6,000 Nacara cases a year are
expected to be completed from now on. At that pace, it will take approximately
20 years to adjudicate all the cases, according to INS documents obtained by The
Associated Press.

Immigration officials acknowledge Nacara applicants are in an unfortunate
predicament.

"We completely understand the frustration of the Nacara applicants in terms of
waiting for the adjudication," INS spokesman Dan Kane said. "They deserve to
have their applications adjudicated in a timely manner. However, we are doing
the best we can with the very limited resources that we have at this time."

Lawmakers are aware of the Nacara delays. Immigration reform to address the
problem failed to pass in Congress in 2001 despite support from the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus and some Democrats.

More reform efforts were planned this session, but after Sept. 11, prospects for
addressing Nacara look dim, said U.S. Rep. Hilda Solis, D-El Monte, the only
member of Congress who is of Central American descent.

"It is not going to go away," said Solis, whose mother is Nicaraguan and father
is Mexican. "Whether it gets addressed immediately or not remains to be seen."

Margarita Herrador has nearly given up hope of residency for herself and her
husband. But she will continue to pray nightly for her daughters to one day
become U.S. citizens.

"We have been here so long, begging them. One door opens, and another closes,"
Margarita said. "When we came my daughters were little girls. Now they're grown,
and we're in the same situation, and nothing has happened."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              164 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 27, 2001 Thursday

INS quirk keeps Salvadorans, Guatemalans waiting;
Some estimate backlog could last up to 20 years By Erica Werner The Associated
Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


El Salvador's savage civil war drove Roberto and Margarita Herrador north to the
United States in search of a safe haven for their family. They found it in a
country that, after 15 years, still won't accept them.

The Herradors and their three daughters are among tens of thousands of
Salvadoran and Guatemalan war refugees whose applications for permanent
residency, the first step toward citizenship, are languishing in INS files
though their eligibility was guaranteed by an act of Congress.

A peculiarity in Immigration and Naturalization Service procedures is creating a
large and growing backlog of applications, and agency officials estimate it will
take 20 years to get through them.

That's an eternity for families like the Herradors, who have spent years seeking
their promised residency under first one program, then another.

"There are a lot of people whose lives are on hold because of these delays,"
said Robert J. Foss, legal director of the Central American Resource Center.
"The INS is failing in a very big way around a group of people who have already
been through the wringer more than once."

The people affected have been in this country for more than a decade, and most
came to escape civil war. Their lives are burdened in countless ways because
they don't have green cards, the proof of permanent residency.

"It's created this sort of double standard for us. We have to do double the work
to get anything done than the average citizen," said Ingrid Herrador, 25, in an
interview in the family's small apartment in Mar Vista, a working class
community just behind Venice Beach. "And even though we do all of that and could
be really good for this society we have all these obstacles that make it almost
impossible."

Ingrid was accepted by the University of California, Santa Cruz, in 1995 but
couldn't go because she was ineligible for in-state tuition and student aid.

The family's legal status prevented Margarita from returning to El Salvador when
her mother and then her sister died.

Daughter Claudia, 28, must put off her dream of joining the Peace Corps until
her case is resolved.

Roberto, a trained accountant, has worked as a cashier at a gas station for more
than a decade and now makes $8 an hour. Career advancement is difficult for a
nonresident with a yearly work permit.

In El Salvador, Margarita and Roberto saw fellow activists in the Catholic
church brutally murdered by death squads and the military, and feared for their
own lives. Their daughters remember cowering inside as gun battles raged, and
finding scattered body parts while playing near their house.

Sudden noises still make Ingrid cringe.

"We were forced to come, because we were suffering many things. We had no
choice," Margarita said, speaking in Spanish.

"But we didn't want to be in the situation we are in now."

The Herrador family is eligible for permanent residency under the Nicaraguan
Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, known as Nacara, passed by Congress
in 1997. A different provision of the act applied to Nicaraguans and Cubans;
their application process is much less stringent and most of their cases have
been resolved.

Those eligible had to, among other things, arrive in this country before 1990,
live here continuously for seven years and demonstrate good moral character.

There are millions of Salvadorans and Guatemalans living in the United States.
Roughly 300,000 are eligible under Nacara and about 100,000 have filed
applications.

The delay in processing Nacara claims comes down to a quirk of INS bureaucracy.

Nacara applications are processed by the INS Asylum Division, which handles
three other types of cases -- asylum seekers, new arrivals to the United States
who have a credible fear of returning home and refugees overseas. The INS is
required by law to process some of these cases quickly, and classifies them as a
higher priority than the Nacara cases.

Asylum and refugee cases are processed first. This fiscal year, that will take
about 95 percent of the agency's time and manpower, leaving just 5 percent to
handle Nacara cases, according to agency estimates.

With the asylum and refugee workload growing, only 6,000 Nacara cases a year are
expected to be completed from now on. At that pace, it will take approximately
20 years to adjudicate all the cases, according to INS documents obtained by The
Associated Press.

Immigration officials acknowledge Nacara applicants are in an unfortunate
predicament.

"We completely understand the frustration of the Nacara applicants in terms of
waiting for the adjudication," INS spokesman Dan Kane said. "They deserve to
have their applications adjudicated in a timely manner. However, we are doing
the best we can with the very limited resources that we have at this time."

Lawmakers are aware of the Nacara delays. Immigration reform to address the
problem failed to pass in Congress in 2001 despite support from the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus and some Democrats.

More reform efforts were planned this session, but after Sept. 11, prospects for
addressing Nacara look dim, said U.S. Rep. Hilda Solis, D-El Monte, the only
member of Congress who is of Central American descent.

"It is not going to go away," said Solis, whose mother is Nicaraguan and father
is Mexican. "Whether it gets addressed immediately or not remains to be seen."

Margarita Herrador has nearly given up hope of residency for herself and her
husband. But she will continue to pray nightly for her daughters to one day
become U.S. citizens.

"We have been here so long, begging them. One door opens, and another closes,"
Margarita said. "When we came my daughters were little girls. Now they're grown,
and we're in the same situation, and nothing has happened."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              165 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 29, 2001 Saturday

Accused terrorist held on 'secret evidence';
Union City man never charged, has been in jail for four years

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 2124 words


Harpal Singh has been in jail for four years. But he has not been charged with
any crime.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has accused Singh of being a
terrorist. And that's about all the onetime Union City resident and India native
knows about the case the service has against him, because its evidence is
classified.

INS officials claim they have had the right to use classified, or "secret,"
evidence to hold and deport immigrants since the 1950s, in order to protect
intelligence sources. The practice of using such evidence, particularly to
detain immigrants, faded after officials lost a string of high-profile cases in
the 1990s.

But civil libertarians fear that in the current climate, the number of cases
where such evidence is used could rise. In fact, the Justice Department in
October asked a federal appeals court to affirm its right to use secret evidence
in cases where it seeks to hold or deport immigrants they say are here
illegally.

In an Oct. 23 brief, the department's lawyers asked the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals to reaffirm a 1974 case allowing the use of secret evidence, saying that
it "would enhance the Government's ability to attack terrorist infrastructure by
revitalizing this important executive authority."

The court decided the case, which predated the Sept. 11 attacks, without
addressing the question of secret evidence.

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson said the department does not intend to
use secret evidence in any new cases. "We've abided by the president's pledge
that he made at his campaign last year. He opposed the use of secret evidence,"
Nelson said.

But INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said it's too soon to tell whether his agency
will increase its use of secret evidence beyond the 10 to 12 cases each year in
which such evidence is introduced.

And experts said recent moves to close immigration hearings to the press and
public and questions about immigration judges' security clearances point to the
possibility that the use of secret evidence may be on the rise.

Difficult to defend against

Opponents of secret evidence said it's impossible to defend people in cases
where it is used, and have questioned both the legality of the practice and the
value of the evidence being withheld. And they said that the use of secret
evidence has disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims.

"We still have no idea what they're alleging. There's reams of evidence we
haven't seen," said Bob Jobe, the San Francisco lawyer representing Singh in his
attempts to gain political asylum in the United States, which began over a
decade ago.

Singh fled India in 1993 after being jailed and tortured several times by the
Indian government due to his efforts to get a separate Sikh state in India,
according to his attorney and court documents. After a stop in New York, he said
he came to Union City where he had friends to live with. He was jailed by the
INS in 1997 following a hearing.

An immigration judge denied Singh's asylum claim in December 1999, due in part
to the evidence presented against him -- evidence that neither Singh nor his
lawyer have seen. The case is currently under appeal by both Singh and the INS.

Jobe fears Singh could be killed for his political beliefs if returned to India,
and says there's no way he can properly defend his client without seeing this
evidence.

"In a case like this where you've got a man's life at stake, you've got to see
the evidence," said Jobe. "It's unfathomable to me that you could send a man to
die using this procedure."

Intelligence needs protecting

But the government needs the right to use secret evidence in order to safeguard
intelligence sources, said Jack Martin, special projects director for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C.

"It's pretty difficult to penetrate this type of terrorist activity with
informants," Martin said of the Sept. 11 attacks. "And yet that is vitally
important, if we are going to have advance notice of this type of plotting going
on in this country, if we are going to protect the American public."

And officials have been forced to drop deportation proceedings to avoid
revealing confidential information sources, Martin said.

Bergeron said the courts have long given his agency the right to use classified
evidence, a claim some advocates dispute. But despite the fact that INS
officials have defended their right to use such evidence before Congress, he
said it's not up to them to decide whether it has the right to use classified
evidence in immigration proceedings.

"I don't think it's our role to engage in that philosophical argument. That is
an argument that needs to be decided by Congress and the courts," Bergeron said.

A 2000 bill to end the use of secret evidence in immigration proceedings,
co-sponsored by former U.S. Rep Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, stalled in committee.

But Georgetown law professor David Cole, whose Miami case the Justice Department
used to ask for greater rights to use secret evidence, said the use of such
evidence is unnecessary because the government has been able to try suspected
terrorists in public court. For instance, the Justice Department announced
recently that it will try terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in federal court.

"That shows that we can try terrorists and afford them basic due process
rights," Cole said. "We have done it in very serious cases, and with Zacarias
Moussaoui. Why can't we do it in cases where immigrants are not charged with a
terrorist act?"

Evidence called weak

Hussein Ibish, spokesman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in
Washington, D.C., accused the government of using their right to classify
evidence simply to bolster weak cases.

"Secret evidence is not judiciously used for protecting diplomatic secrets. It
is in fact used when the government's case is too shaky to withstand challenge,"
Ibish said.

For proof, Ibish pointed to cases involving several Iraqi men who participated
in CIA-funded efforts to overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein but were accused
of terrorism and espionage when they arrived in the United States.

Former CIA director James Woolsey, now a Washington, D.C. attorney who
represented some of the men, was able to get much of the secret evidence against
his clients, including Dr. Ali Yassin Mohammad Karim, declassified.

"It was junk," Woolsey said of the evidence he saw. "One [government witness]
mistook the Iran-Iraq war for the Gulf War. Another said that Arabs lie a lot.

"Another confused the clan name with the last name. They thought Dr. Ali was
hiding his last name, but no one in Iraq uses clan names," said Woolsey, who
added that he supports the use of classified evidence but thinks defense
attorneys should be cleared to view it. "It goes on and on. it was really an
embarrassment to the government."

Another man was accused of trying to hide the fact that he was a member of a
Kurdish liberation movement that didn't exist, said Niels Frenzen, a law
professor at the University of Southern California and Woolsey's co-counsel on
the case.

The man spent more than a year in jail on that charge, which was the result of a
mix-up between the military translator who spoke to the man and an FBI agent
involved in the case.

"This man was separated from his [family] based on this stupid mistake made by
the FBI," Frenzen said. "It's one of the silliest examples of things that
happened in these cases. But it shows all of the things going on behind our
backs."

Cole said that for more than a dozen people he has represented in immigration
proceedings involving classified evidence, the charges have never amounted to
more than guilt by association.

"In virtually every one of these cases, there was no claim that the individuals
engaged in any kind of violent activity. The claim was that they associated with
bad groups," Cole said.

And the use of such evidence disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims,
experts said. In 1998, the Justice Department listed some 25 people with cases
based at least in part on secret evidence, nearly all of them Arab or Muslim,
said Cole.

"I never saw the government, for example, detaining supporters or associates of
the Irish Republican Army on secret evidence, absent some charge that the person
was engaged violent activity," said Cole.

'Terrorist' definition debated

The INS says that Singh helped recruit militants fighting for an independent
Sikh state in India, raised funds for them, provided material support and helped
to plan terrorist actions.

It also accused Singh's wife, Rajwinder Kaur, of conspiring to engage in alien
smuggling, immigration fraud and of having direct knowledge of her husband's
alleged terrorist activity.

Singh and his attorney, Jobe, succeeded in refuting the only direct charge
against Singh, that he served as a "communications link" in the 1991 kidnapping
of a Romanian diplomat. They said that Singh spoke out against the diplomat's
kidnapping and worked for his safe return.

But the rest of the allegations "were too vague to refute in a systematic way,"
Jobe said.

Speaking from Yuba County Jail -- one of several jails Singh has spent time in
since the INS detained him in 1997 -- Singh said he did help raise funds for the
family members of Sikhs slain by the Indian government and that he passed along
the phone numbers of militant groups to those who expressed an interest in
sending funds to them.

But Singh, a factory owner and lawyer in India, said that what he's doing isn't
terrorism but fighting for a legitimate political goal: An independent state for
Sikhs in India's Punjab region, known as Khalistan.

"What is the meaning to America's security? It is only between me and my nation
and not the American government," Singh said.

The agency did not offer a comment on Singh's case. San Francisco INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, whose office is handling Singh's case, said the
agency does not comment on pending cases.

While the INS says Singh is a terrorist, others claim his push for an
independent Sikh state in India is purely political. In court papers, one leader
of the so-called Khalistani movement likened Singh's role in the movement to
that of Gerry Adams, who heads the political arm of the Irish liberation
struggle.

The new definitions of terrorism could cover a variety of previously allowed
political activities, advocates argued, including brick-throwing by protesters
at World Trade Organization events or destruction of property by currently
accepted political parties like the African National Congress.

While in jail, Singh was named president of the Sikh Youth of America, a
national lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C., Jobe said. Prior to
that, he had been in regular contact with human rights groups and members of the
Indian parliament.

Singh may drop claim

The judge who originally decided Singh's case in December 1999, U.S. Immigration
Judge Dana Marks Keener, decided that the information he provided about being
detained and tortured by the Indian government was credible enough to withhold
his deportation to India. She said neither Singh nor his wife could be
considered a danger to the U.S.

Keener also questioned INS assertions that Singh helped plan and support
terrorist activities, noting that the U.S. government has not filed criminal
charges against Singh and that the Indian government has not asked for his
extradition. She said the INS's classified evidence in the case consisted of
"layer upon layer of hearsay."

But despite expressing "strong reservations" about the INS's use of secret
evidence in Singh's case, Keener denied his asylum claim based on it, saying the
evidence contradicted some of Singh's testimony. Both the INS and Jobe are
appealing Keener's ruling.

Singh's wife was granted asylum, despite the INS's assertion that she knew of
Singh's alleged activities and engaged in alien smuggling and immigration fraud.
The INS is also appealing Kaur's case, but she is not in custody.

In the meantime, Singh is considering dropping his asylum claim and heading back
to India, despite the risks. His movement for an independent Sikh state is all
but dead, experts said, but Singh is one of the few members of it still at risk
in India, one testified.

Jobe is fighting in federal court to get Singh released from prison while he
works on his appeal and has said that the INS is keeping him there to pressure
him to drop his claim.

"If I am in America, I am in jail, for four or five years, anyway. So what is my
choice?" Singh said. "I'm thinking India and America have the same rules and
regulations. There is no justice over here."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              166 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 29, 2001 Saturday

Accused terrorist held on 'secret evidence';
Union City man never charged, has been in jail for four years

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 2124 words


Harpal Singh has been in jail for four years. But he has not been charged with
any crime.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has accused Singh of being a
terrorist. And that's about all the onetime Union City resident and India native
knows about the case the service has against him, because its evidence is
classified.

INS officials claim they have had the right to use classified, or "secret,"
evidence to hold and deport immigrants since the 1950s, in order to protect
intelligence sources. The practice of using such evidence, particularly to
detain immigrants, faded after officials lost a string of high-profile cases in
the 1990s.

But civil libertarians fear that in the current climate, the number of cases
where such evidence is used could rise. In fact, the Justice Department in
October asked a federal appeals court to affirm its right to use secret evidence
in cases where it seeks to hold or deport immigrants they say are here
illegally.

In an Oct. 23 brief, the department's lawyers asked the 11th Circuit Court of
Appeals to reaffirm a 1974 case allowing the use of secret evidence, saying that
it "would enhance the Government's ability to attack terrorist infrastructure by
revitalizing this important executive authority."

The court decided the case, which predated the Sept. 11 attacks, without
addressing the question of secret evidence.

Justice Department spokesman Dan Nelson said the department does not intend to
use secret evidence in any new cases. "We've abided by the president's pledge
that he made at his campaign last year. He opposed the use of secret evidence,"
Nelson said.

But INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said it's too soon to tell whether his agency
will increase its use of secret evidence beyond the 10 to 12 cases each year in
which such evidence is introduced.

And experts said recent moves to close immigration hearings to the press and
public and questions about immigration judges' security clearances point to the
possibility that the use of secret evidence may be on the rise.

Difficult to defend against

Opponents of secret evidence said it's impossible to defend people in cases
where it is used, and have questioned both the legality of the practice and the
value of the evidence being withheld. And they said that the use of secret
evidence has disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims.

"We still have no idea what they're alleging. There's reams of evidence we
haven't seen," said Bob Jobe, the San Francisco lawyer representing Singh in his
attempts to gain political asylum in the United States, which began over a
decade ago.

Singh fled India in 1993 after being jailed and tortured several times by the
Indian government due to his efforts to get a separate Sikh state in India,
according to his attorney and court documents. After a stop in New York, he said
he came to Union City where he had friends to live with. He was jailed by the
INS in 1997 following a hearing.

An immigration judge denied Singh's asylum claim in December 1999, due in part
to the evidence presented against him -- evidence that neither Singh nor his
lawyer have seen. The case is currently under appeal by both Singh and the INS.

Jobe fears Singh could be killed for his political beliefs if returned to India,
and says there's no way he can properly defend his client without seeing this
evidence.

"In a case like this where you've got a man's life at stake, you've got to see
the evidence," said Jobe. "It's unfathomable to me that you could send a man to
die using this procedure."

Intelligence needs protecting

But the government needs the right to use secret evidence in order to safeguard
intelligence sources, said Jack Martin, special projects director for the
Federation for American Immigration Reform in Washington, D.C.

"It's pretty difficult to penetrate this type of terrorist activity with
informants," Martin said of the Sept. 11 attacks. "And yet that is vitally
important, if we are going to have advance notice of this type of plotting going
on in this country, if we are going to protect the American public."

And officials have been forced to drop deportation proceedings to avoid
revealing confidential information sources, Martin said.

Bergeron said the courts have long given his agency the right to use classified
evidence, a claim some advocates dispute. But despite the fact that INS
officials have defended their right to use such evidence before Congress, he
said it's not up to them to decide whether it has the right to use classified
evidence in immigration proceedings.

"I don't think it's our role to engage in that philosophical argument. That is
an argument that needs to be decided by Congress and the courts," Bergeron said.

A 2000 bill to end the use of secret evidence in immigration proceedings,
co-sponsored by former U.S. Rep Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, stalled in committee.

But Georgetown law professor David Cole, whose Miami case the Justice Department
used to ask for greater rights to use secret evidence, said the use of such
evidence is unnecessary because the government has been able to try suspected
terrorists in public court. For instance, the Justice Department announced
recently that it will try terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in federal court.

"That shows that we can try terrorists and afford them basic due process
rights," Cole said. "We have done it in very serious cases, and with Zacarias
Moussaoui. Why can't we do it in cases where immigrants are not charged with a
terrorist act?"

Evidence called weak

Hussein Ibish, spokesman for the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee in
Washington, D.C., accused the government of using their right to classify
evidence simply to bolster weak cases.

"Secret evidence is not judiciously used for protecting diplomatic secrets. It
is in fact used when the government's case is too shaky to withstand challenge,"
Ibish said.

For proof, Ibish pointed to cases involving several Iraqi men who participated
in CIA-funded efforts to overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein but were accused
of terrorism and espionage when they arrived in the United States.

Former CIA director James Woolsey, now a Washington, D.C. attorney who
represented some of the men, was able to get much of the secret evidence against
his clients, including Dr. Ali Yassin Mohammad Karim, declassified.

"It was junk," Woolsey said of the evidence he saw. "One [government witness]
mistook the Iran-Iraq war for the Gulf War. Another said that Arabs lie a lot.

"Another confused the clan name with the last name. They thought Dr. Ali was
hiding his last name, but no one in Iraq uses clan names," said Woolsey, who
added that he supports the use of classified evidence but thinks defense
attorneys should be cleared to view it. "It goes on and on. it was really an
embarrassment to the government."

Another man was accused of trying to hide the fact that he was a member of a
Kurdish liberation movement that didn't exist, said Niels Frenzen, a law
professor at the University of Southern California and Woolsey's co-counsel on
the case.

The man spent more than a year in jail on that charge, which was the result of a
mix-up between the military translator who spoke to the man and an FBI agent
involved in the case.

"This man was separated from his [family] based on this stupid mistake made by
the FBI," Frenzen said. "It's one of the silliest examples of things that
happened in these cases. But it shows all of the things going on behind our
backs."

Cole said that for more than a dozen people he has represented in immigration
proceedings involving classified evidence, the charges have never amounted to
more than guilt by association.

"In virtually every one of these cases, there was no claim that the individuals
engaged in any kind of violent activity. The claim was that they associated with
bad groups," Cole said.

And the use of such evidence disproportionately affected Arabs and Muslims,
experts said. In 1998, the Justice Department listed some 25 people with cases
based at least in part on secret evidence, nearly all of them Arab or Muslim,
said Cole.

"I never saw the government, for example, detaining supporters or associates of
the Irish Republican Army on secret evidence, absent some charge that the person
was engaged violent activity," said Cole.

'Terrorist' definition debated

The INS says that Singh helped recruit militants fighting for an independent
Sikh state in India, raised funds for them, provided material support and helped
to plan terrorist actions.

It also accused Singh's wife, Rajwinder Kaur, of conspiring to engage in alien
smuggling, immigration fraud and of having direct knowledge of her husband's
alleged terrorist activity.

Singh and his attorney, Jobe, succeeded in refuting the only direct charge
against Singh, that he served as a "communications link" in the 1991 kidnapping
of a Romanian diplomat. They said that Singh spoke out against the diplomat's
kidnapping and worked for his safe return.

But the rest of the allegations "were too vague to refute in a systematic way,"
Jobe said.

Speaking from Yuba County Jail -- one of several jails Singh has spent time in
since the INS detained him in 1997 -- Singh said he did help raise funds for the
family members of Sikhs slain by the Indian government and that he passed along
the phone numbers of militant groups to those who expressed an interest in
sending funds to them.

But Singh, a factory owner and lawyer in India, said that what he's doing isn't
terrorism but fighting for a legitimate political goal: An independent state for
Sikhs in India's Punjab region, known as Khalistan.

"What is the meaning to America's security? It is only between me and my nation
and not the American government," Singh said.

The agency did not offer a comment on Singh's case. San Francisco INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, whose office is handling Singh's case, said the
agency does not comment on pending cases.

While the INS says Singh is a terrorist, others claim his push for an
independent Sikh state in India is purely political. In court papers, one leader
of the so-called Khalistani movement likened Singh's role in the movement to
that of Gerry Adams, who heads the political arm of the Irish liberation
struggle.

The new definitions of terrorism could cover a variety of previously allowed
political activities, advocates argued, including brick-throwing by protesters
at World Trade Organization events or destruction of property by currently
accepted political parties like the African National Congress.

While in jail, Singh was named president of the Sikh Youth of America, a
national lobbying organization based in Washington, D.C., Jobe said. Prior to
that, he had been in regular contact with human rights groups and members of the
Indian parliament.

Singh may drop claim

The judge who originally decided Singh's case in December 1999, U.S. Immigration
Judge Dana Marks Keener, decided that the information he provided about being
detained and tortured by the Indian government was credible enough to withhold
his deportation to India. She said neither Singh nor his wife could be
considered a danger to the U.S.

Keener also questioned INS assertions that Singh helped plan and support
terrorist activities, noting that the U.S. government has not filed criminal
charges against Singh and that the Indian government has not asked for his
extradition. She said the INS's classified evidence in the case consisted of
"layer upon layer of hearsay."

But despite expressing "strong reservations" about the INS's use of secret
evidence in Singh's case, Keener denied his asylum claim based on it, saying the
evidence contradicted some of Singh's testimony. Both the INS and Jobe are
appealing Keener's ruling.

Singh's wife was granted asylum, despite the INS's assertion that she knew of
Singh's alleged activities and engaged in alien smuggling and immigration fraud.
The INS is also appealing Kaur's case, but she is not in custody.

In the meantime, Singh is considering dropping his asylum claim and heading back
to India, despite the risks. His movement for an independent Sikh state is all
but dead, experts said, but Singh is one of the few members of it still at risk
in India, one testified.

Jobe is fighting in federal court to get Singh released from prison while he
works on his appeal and has said that the INS is keeping him there to pressure
him to drop his claim.

"If I am in America, I am in jail, for four or five years, anyway. So what is my
choice?" Singh said. "I'm thinking India and America have the same rules and
regulations. There is no justice over here."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2001 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              167 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           January 24, 2002 Thursday

No chance to stay in the U.S.

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 452 words


Iread your Nov. 5 editorial, "Tighter immigration restricts terrorist access,"
with much interest, with some agreement, and wish to respond from the other side
of immigration -- the legal nonimmigrant.

I'm a British citizen living in Fremont with my husband and daughter. We are
Scottish, and fiercely proud of it. We have been here for just over five years
on temporary work visas that now have expired.

The fact is that the United States really does not have the open door to anyone
who either wishes to stay permanently or extend a nonimmigrant visa.

My husband's company applied to extend his work visa for an additional two years
in July 2001. This was denied on a technicality, and his company filed an
appeal.

We are waiting on a decision on this appeal, and consequently, he has not worked
since July 31. His company still needs him and is holding his job open -- he
just cannot legally work.

Living in the Bay Area, I am sure you can imagine the impact of losing a salary
for more than six months.

To make matters worse, my employer also applied to get me a two-year extension,
and it also was denied for the same reason as my husband's.

You may think it could not get any worse, but it can.

My employer could not appeal the decision because I work with a travel company
and we all know what impact Sept. 11 had on that industry. I was severed on Dec.
28. The type of work visa I have does not allow me to work for any other company
in the United States.

So when you, as an American, think that foreigners come and go easily and work
without difficulty, think again.

My family has been devastated by the chain of events during the past six months.
We are both unable to work, and therefore have no income. We cannot file for
unemployment, even though we have paid taxes that we cannot ever benefit from --
Medicare, for example.

We have spoken with Rep. Pete Stark's staff, and they have been exemplary in
their efforts to help us.

The bottom line is that the INS does have a certain amount of autonomy -- when
they make decisions or have delays, even the congressman's office cannot speed
them up.

Our daughter is a junior at Washington High School. The two-year extensions we
requested would have allowed her to finish school. Unfortunately, we are
nonimmigrant numbers, not people, to the INS and our lives don't come into the
equation.

WE have exhausted all our options, it seems, and are now selling our home and
planning to go back to Scotland as soon as possible.

It is with much regret and disappointment that our stay in the United States has
ended this way, as we have had an overall good experience of living here and
wouldn't change that for the world.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              168 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            February 5, 2002 Tuesday

Our differences unite us

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 457 words


MY opinion is in response to the Feb. 1 My Word article by A.M. Briggs.

The enemy may indeed be at the gate, but enemies also lurk among those who would
make the ridiculous, hyperbole-filled assertions that there is a connection
between the horrible and tragic events of last Sept. 11, our country's
immigration policies and our country's so-called loss of language, culture and
traditions.

Although I am not Islamic [nor am I affiliated with any organized religion], I
take great exception to the narrow-minded views expressed by A.M. Briggs toward
the Islamic religion and our country's immigration policies.

Stating "Immigrants from every country in the world have invaded us like locusts
in a corn field" is an extremely hateful and misinformed statement.

What Briggs fails to understand is that immigrants, however great in number, do
just the opposite. They add to the richness and cultural flavor of this country,
not "erode" it.

I'm grateful that my Greek ancestors, though perhaps "locusts" to some at the
time, were able to immigrate to the United States in 1906. I'm grateful they
chose to come to a county where they were able to seek the economic and
religious freedoms they so desired.

My ancestors' immigration to this country certainly did not erode our language,
culture, traditions, schools and our welfare and health system, but instead
contributed to those systems, as well as the richness of our culture and
heritage.

I'm curious to know where Briggs finds the data to support his opinions. I have
great doubts that "some 300,000 come to enjoy our education system and then
return home to spew out venom about our democratic and decadent society." It's
this sort of propaganda that contributes to the bigotry and ignorance held by so
many Americans regarding immigrants and others around the world.

It's absolutely ridiculous and shortsighted to think that closing our borders
would have prevented the atrocities we experienced on Sept. 11.

Briggs asserts, "We are surrounded by this culture [Islamism] in America. One
local cleric said their goal was to convert the world to Islam." Briggs should
be reminded that many of those who settled the American continents, as well as
the United States, were very open about their desire to convert the world to
Christianity.

The rich diversity of the United States -- through the myriad languages,
religions, foods and general customs brought here by those who immigrated to
America -- is exactly why the horrible attacks on us could not destroy the
incredible infrastructure of our country. It is because of our diversity that
this country cannot and will not be toppled by such unfathomable acts of terror.

John Hazatone is a Hayward resident.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              169 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          February 20, 2002 Wednesday

Screeners protest airport job losses

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 366 words


S.F. AIRPORT -- Hundreds rallied in support of non-citizen baggage screeners at
the Bay Area's three major airports Tuesday, saying the screeners are being
unfairly singled out to lose their jobs.

"Everyone knows the 'War on Terrorism' has become a war on immigrants," said
Gerardo Sandoval, a San Francisco Supervisor, to cheers and applause in SFO's
old international terminal.

Protesters wore stickers that read "Scapegoating Immigrants Won't Fly" and
chanted slogans such as "DOT should be ashamed, immigrants are not to blame."

About 80 percent of the nearly 900 screeners at SFO could lose their jobs
because of a provision in the new aviation security act which federalized
airport security. The act requires that all screeners be U.S. citizens.

Union officials believe similar percentages of screeners would lose their jobs
at Oakland International and Mineta San Jose International.

Daz Lamparas, a field representative for Service Employees International Union
Local 790, said he is still optimistic the screeners can save their jobs, even
though time is running out.

Federal officials said last week new screeners could replace non-citizen
screeners as early as this spring. Several screeners said losing their jobs
would be devastating.

"My daughter asked me, 'What will happen to my brothers in the Philippines?'"
said Leeticia Santo, an SFO screener.

Santo's two daughters Malou and Angelu also work as screeners at SFO. They send
about $300 a month back to their family in the Philippines to pay for education,
birthday presents and other expenses.

Lamparas said SEIU officials will travel to Washington today to seek a
Republican sponsor for a bill by U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein that would speed up
the citizenship process for some screeners.

Lamparas also said the union plans to file an injunction in court each time a
baggage screener is laid off.

The American Civil Liberties Union has sued the federal government seeking to
overturn the citizenship requirement on behalf of nine screeners at SFO and Los
Angeles International Airport.

You can reach

STAFF WRITER Justin Jouvenal at 348-4331 or by e-mail at
jjouvenal@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              170 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                          February 20, 2002 Wednesday

Screeners protest airport job losses

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 366 words


S.F. AIRPORT -- Hundreds rallied in support of non-citizen baggage screeners at
the Bay Area's three major airports Tuesday, saying the screeners are being
unfairly singled out to lose their jobs.

"Everyone knows the 'War on Terrorism' has become a war on immigrants," said
Gerardo Sandoval, a San Francisco Supervisor, to cheers and applause in SFO's
old international terminal.

Protesters wore stickers that read "Scapegoating Immigrants Won't Fly" and
chanted slogans such as "DOT should be ashamed, immigrants are not to blame."

About 80 percent of the nearly 900 screeners at SFO could lose their jobs
because of a provision in the new aviation security act which federalized
airport security. The act requires that all screeners be U.S. citizens.

Union officials believe similar percentages of screeners would lose their jobs
at Oakland International and Mineta San Jose International.

Daz Lamparas, a field representative for Service Employees International Union
Local 790, said he is still optimistic the screeners can save their jobs, even
though time is running out.

Federal officials said last week new screeners could replace non-citizen
screeners as early as this spring. Several screeners said losing their jobs
would be devastating.

"My daughter asked me, 'What will happen to my brothers in the Philippines?'"
said Leeticia Santo, an SFO screener.

Santo's two daughters Malou and Angelu also work as screeners at SFO. They send
about $300 a month back to their family in the Philippines to pay for education,
birthday presents and other expenses.

Lamparas said SEIU officials will travel to Washington today to seek a
Republican sponsor for a bill by U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein that would speed up
the citizenship process for some screeners.

Lamparas also said the union plans to file an injunction in court each time a
baggage screener is laid off.

The American Civil Liberties Union has sued the federal government seeking to
overturn the citizenship requirement on behalf of nine screeners at SFO and Los
Angeles International Airport.

You can reach

STAFF WRITER Justin Jouvenal at 348-4331 or by e-mail at
jjouvenal@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              171 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             March 19, 2002 Tuesday

Bush supports merger of 3 border agencies

BYLINE: By Dana Milbank Washington Post

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 855 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration is poised to recommend a dramatic reorganization of the
federal agencies charged with protecting the nation's borders by merging the
Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Border
Patrol, administration and congressional officials said Monday.

The merger of the three agen-cies, each responsible for part of the nation's
border security, would be an effort to streamline government functions and shore
up the nation's porous border defenses as a response to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

The restructuring, which would require congressional approval, is intended to
improve coordination among the thousands of federal workers who protect U.S.
borders but work for different organizations.

Similar proposals have been rejected since the Nixon administration, but the
imminent agreement reflects the government's new sense of urgency in overcoming
bureaucratic hurdles.

Senior administration officials will meet today to finalize the merger proposal
and draft recommendations for President Bush, officials said. The consolidation
has been a priority for Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge, who has been
forced to negotiate bureaucratic turf battles within the administration.

Ridge had hoped such a proposal would be part of the president's State of the
Union address and budget message. He backed down at that time because of ongoing
wrangling, conceding that he may have been pushing for change too quickly.

Although top Bush advisers have agreed to combine the INS and Border Patrol,
which are part of the Justice Department, with Customs, which is part of the
Treasury Department, they have yet to decide whether the new agency will be part
of the Justice Department or a stand-alone organization, possibly under Ridge.

Democrats in Congress are seeking to create a new Cabinet department responsible
for homeland security -- something President Bush has opposed.

Ridge is scheduled to meet today with Attorney General John D. Ashcroft,
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and other members of the Homeland Security
Council to finalize the agreement. Administration officials said they anticipate
today's meeting will be the final one before a recommendation is made.

Ridge spokesman Gordon Johndroe confirmed that the Homeland Security Council
will meet today but declined to discuss its agenda.

Congressional sources said the most likely recommendation is for the new entity
to be placed in the Justice Department, but administration officials cautioned
that such a conclusion was premature.

Moving Customs under the umbrella of the INS would likely be controversial in
Congress, which has been highly critical of that agency, particularly after the
belated arrival last week of student visa approval notices for two of the Sept.
11 hijackers.

Such a change might also draw opposition from business groups concerned that
routine Customs operations could be affected.

Any proposal would give Congress an opportunity to question administration
officials on the structure of the homeland security apparatus, and may provide
congressional critics of the INS a chance to overhaul that agency.

Bush has proposed reforming the INS without legislative action by breaking it
into service and enforcement units.

Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman, D-Conn., chairman of the Governmental Affairs
Committee, has introduced legislation that would create a Cabinet-level
Department of Homeland Security, combining the three entities in the Bush
proposal with others, such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the
Coast Guard. They would be under the command of Ridge or a different secretary
of homeland security.

A Lieberman spokesman said the Bush plan "is moving in our direction." Rep.
William M. "Mac" Thornberry, R-Texas, has also proposed a consolidation.

Congressional Democrats, supported by a small number of Republicans, have also
asked Ridge to testify on homeland security, a request the administration has
refused on the grounds that Ridge is a member of Bush's staff and is not
required to appear before congressional committees, as Cabinet officers are.

Senate Majority Leader Thomas A. Daschle, D-S.D., said senators might consider
issuing a subpoena to Ridge, and senators have raised the possibility of
requiring testimony from some 80 officials of the various agencies included in
the homeland security effort.

In an interview last November, Ridge said "there is an appetite" to bring
Customs, INS, Border Patrol and possibly the Coast Guard under one agency. He
said it made little sense that "when you are coming across a border, you have
five or six different folks, wearing different uniforms, and you have to run a
gantlet.

"We would be a lot safer," Ridge said, "if we could not only fuse some of this
capability, but exchange some of the intelligence that these agencies now get."

Ridge's comments drew cheers from congressional sponsors of such legislation,
but he ran into opposition from officials in those agencies who were reluctant
or unwilling to relinquish power to a new, more centralized agency.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              172 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            April 11, 2002 Thursday

Angel Island restoration uncovers clues about past;
By Deborah Kong The Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 1200 words


ANGEL ISLAND

As their ships steamed through the Golden Gate in the early 20th century,
Chinese immigrants dreamed of opportunities awaiting them on Gold Mountain, as
they called America.

But instead of docking at San Francisco's fabled shores, they were shuttled onto
ferries and sent to Angel Island in the middle of the bay. At the immigration
station there, dreams of paradise quickly clashed with reality.

Many languished within a few miles of their destination for weeks, sometimes
carving melancholy poems into the walls of rough barracks while their fate hung
in limbo. In the station's earliest days, the Chinese had to use a segregated
entrance to the hospital.

Details of Angel Island's difficult past -- like the separate entrance and a new
trove of poems -- are now being uncovered by researchers examining the site and
sifting through the National Archives and National Park Service records as part
of a restoration project.

Their discoveries are adding texture to survivors' stories of discrimination and
grim circumstances at the immigration station, which operated from 1910 to 1940.

"It's like an archaeological dig," said Katherine Toy, executive director of the
Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation. "The part that we're at now is how
do you go about uncovering a hidden history to dig for a deeper story."

Toy's group, founded by descendants of Chinese who were detained on the island,
is hoping to tell a more complete story by restoring the station to the days
when it was the Ellis Island of the West -- the main gateway into the United
States for immigrants journeying across the Pacific.

The foundation is at the beginning of an estimated $32 million, eight-year
project with the California State Parks and National Park Service. A team of
historians, architects and others is combing through archives and probing the
barracks, hospital and heating plant for clues to the past.

About 1 million immigrants were processed on Angel Island, far fewer than the 12
million who went through Ellis Island between 1892 and 1954.

But unlike Ellis, where immigrants usually waited three to five hours to be
processed, the average stay for Chinese immigrants on Angel Island was two to
three weeks.

Japanese, Korean, Filipino, Indians, Portuguese, Mexican and Russian immigrants
also went through Angel Island, but the Chinese were generally kept the longest
while officials determined if they were eligible to enter the United States.

Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, Chinese laborers were not allowed to
enter the United States. Exceptions were made for wives and children of American
citizens, merchants, students, diplomats and tourists.

While relatively few who made it to Angel Island were turned away, the wait and
uncertainty could be agonizing.

"The kind of interrogation, the kind of treatment, is so abusive and so inhumane
that it's just no comparison" to the Ellis Island experience, said Ling-Chi
Wang, director of Asian American Studies at the University of California,
Berkeley.

Albert Wong was 11 when he made the 21-day journey from his southern China
village to join his father, a U.S. citizen and owner of the Oriental Cafe in San
Jose.

When Wong arrived in San Francisco in June 1934, he and about 30 other Chinese
were ferried to Angel Island and put in barracks. In a room of about 100 men,
Wong slept on the top mattress of a triple-decker bunk bed.

The doors were locked, armed guards patrolled the halls and chain link fences
covered the windows. Detainees were allowed out only for meals, and to exercise
in a dirt area surrounded by a 12-foot fence topped with barbed wire.

"Time goes very slowly because everybody is just waiting for that
interrogation," said Wong, who was detained for about five weeks. "We were
treated very harsh, more like criminals than immigrants."

Wong, now 80, remembers the Chinese were confined to separate dining halls and
sleeping quarters. Angel Island consultant Daniel Quan recently discovered
evidence of further segregation in the immigration station's early days, in a
letter from the station's architect.

"The entrance for the Chinese and Japanese to their quarters is entirely
separate and distinct from the Europeans' entrance to the Hospital and their
wards, practically making two distinct buildings," architect Walter Mathews
wrote in a 1906 letter to the immigration commissioner general, describing his
site plan.

After the hospital was remodeled sometime between 1911 and 1912, traces of the
segregated entrance were erased. A window replaced the Asian entrance; a wall
and an empty room occupy the area that was filled by the Asian staircase.

A 1907 San Francisco Chronicle article discussed plans for providing water to
the station, then under construction. Freshwater would be drawn from a spring
and brought in by barges. Saltwater pumped from the bay "will be used for
bathing purposes in the Asiatic quarters," the article said.

"I don't think it was lost on the immigrants that they were being treated
differently," Angel Island Park Superintendent Nick Franco said. "Experiencing a
salt water shower versus a freshwater shower I'm sure was pretty unexpected and
pretty demoralizing."

Immigration inspectors often asked detainees minute details about their lives in
China in an effort to weed out those who were trying to enter under false
pretenses, then compared their answers to those given by relatives. Wong recalls
inspectors asked him how many steps led from his hillside home to the orchard
where he played.

In the women's barracks, 18-year-old Lowshee Miu waited for 21 days before she
was allowed to join her husband on the mainland.

"You just stay in and sleep," said Miu, now 90. "A couple of ladies, they were
really sad. They were always crying."

As they waited to be interrogated by immigration inspectors, Chinese men carved
their sorrows on the barrack walls. One poem reads:

"How was I to know I would become a

prisoner suffering in the wooden building? ...

When my family's circumstances stir my

emotions, a double stream of tears flow."

Saved from demolition in 1970 when a park ranger noticed the Chinese
calligraphy, the worn, wooden walls tell immigrants' feelings of anger, despair
and ambition.

While documenting the poems, researchers recently discovered there were dozens
more than the 135 that had been previously translated.

"Every one of those things is a separate voice," Quan said. "If we really take
the time to analyze all of those different things, there's going to be a lot
more history that comes out of there."

They also found more voices from the past in the hospital. After a researcher
found a 1910 letter complaining of immigrants writing on the hospital walls,
state park interpreter Darci Moore ran over to the decaying building with a
flashlight.

Beneath peeling plaster, amid the green algae and mold spreading across the
walls, she found pencil drawings of birds and a bit of Chinese graffiti.

Its message: "When can I get out of here?"

On the Net:

Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation: http://www.aiisf.org

Angel Island: http://www.angelisland.org

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              173 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            April 11, 2002 Thursday

Angel Island restoration uncovers clues about past;
By Deborah Kong The Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1200 words


ANGEL ISLAND

As their ships steamed through the Golden Gate in the early 20th century,
Chinese immigrants dreamed of opportunities awaiting them on Gold Mountain, as
they called America.

But instead of docking at San Francisco's fabled shores, they were shuttled onto
ferries and sent to Angel Island in the middle of the bay. At the immigration
station there, dreams of paradise quickly clashed with reality.

Many languished within a few miles of their destination for weeks, sometimes
carving melancholy poems into the walls of rough barracks while their fate hung
in limbo. In the station's earliest days, the Chinese had to use a segregated
entrance to the hospital.

Details of Angel Island's difficult past -- like the separate entrance and a new
trove of poems -- are now being uncovered by researchers examining the site and
sifting through the National Archives and National Park Service records as part
of a restoration project.

Their discoveries are adding texture to survivors' stories of discrimination and
grim circumstances at the immigration station, which operated from 1910 to 1940.

"It's like an archaeological dig," said Katherine Toy, executive director of the
Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation. "The part that we're at now is how
do you go about uncovering a hidden history to dig for a deeper story."

Toy's group, founded by descendants of Chinese who were detained on the island,
is hoping to tell a more complete story by restoring the station to the days
when it was the Ellis Island of the West -- the main gateway into the United
States for immigrants journeying across the Pacific.

The foundation is at the beginning of an estimated $32 million, eight-year
project with the California State Parks and National Park Service. A team of
historians, architects and others is combing through archives and probing the
barracks, hospital and heating plant for clues to the past.

About 1 million immigrants were processed on Angel Island, far fewer than the 12
million who went through Ellis Island between 1892 and 1954.

But unlike Ellis, where immigrants usually waited three to five hours to be
processed, the average stay for Chinese immigrants on Angel Island was two to
three weeks.

Japanese, Korean, Filipino, Indians, Portuguese, Mexican and Russian immigrants
also went through Angel Island, but the Chinese were generally kept the longest
while officials determined if they were eligible to enter the United States.

Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, Chinese laborers were not allowed to
enter the United States. Exceptions were made for wives and children of American
citizens, merchants, students, diplomats and tourists.

While relatively few who made it to Angel Island were turned away, the wait and
uncertainty could be agonizing.

"The kind of interrogation, the kind of treatment, is so abusive and so inhumane
that it's just no comparison" to the Ellis Island experience, said Ling-Chi
Wang, director of Asian American Studies at the University of California,
Berkeley.

Albert Wong was 11 when he made the 21-day journey from his southern China
village to join his father, a U.S. citizen and owner of the Oriental Cafe in San
Jose.

When Wong arrived in San Francisco in June 1934, he and about 30 other Chinese
were ferried to Angel Island and put in barracks. In a room of about 100 men,
Wong slept on the top mattress of a triple-decker bunk bed.

The doors were locked, armed guards patrolled the halls and chain link fences
covered the windows. Detainees were allowed out only for meals, and to exercise
in a dirt area surrounded by a 12-foot fence topped with barbed wire.

"Time goes very slowly because everybody is just waiting for that
interrogation," said Wong, who was detained for about five weeks. "We were
treated very harsh, more like criminals than immigrants."

Wong, now 80, remembers the Chinese were confined to separate dining halls and
sleeping quarters. Angel Island consultant Daniel Quan recently discovered
evidence of further segregation in the immigration station's early days, in a
letter from the station's architect.

"The entrance for the Chinese and Japanese to their quarters is entirely
separate and distinct from the Europeans' entrance to the Hospital and their
wards, practically making two distinct buildings," architect Walter Mathews
wrote in a 1906 letter to the immigration commissioner general, describing his
site plan.

After the hospital was remodeled sometime between 1911 and 1912, traces of the
segregated entrance were erased. A window replaced the Asian entrance; a wall
and an empty room occupy the area that was filled by the Asian staircase.

A 1907 San Francisco Chronicle article discussed plans for providing water to
the station, then under construction. Freshwater would be drawn from a spring
and brought in by barges. Saltwater pumped from the bay "will be used for
bathing purposes in the Asiatic quarters," the article said.

"I don't think it was lost on the immigrants that they were being treated
differently," Angel Island Park Superintendent Nick Franco said. "Experiencing a
salt water shower versus a freshwater shower I'm sure was pretty unexpected and
pretty demoralizing."

Immigration inspectors often asked detainees minute details about their lives in
China in an effort to weed out those who were trying to enter under false
pretenses, then compared their answers to those given by relatives. Wong recalls
inspectors asked him how many steps led from his hillside home to the orchard
where he played.

In the women's barracks, 18-year-old Lowshee Miu waited for 21 days before she
was allowed to join her husband on the mainland.

"You just stay in and sleep," said Miu, now 90. "A couple of ladies, they were
really sad. They were always crying."

As they waited to be interrogated by immigration inspectors, Chinese men carved
their sorrows on the barrack walls. One poem reads:

"How was I to know I would become a

prisoner suffering in the wooden building? ...

When my family's circumstances stir my

emotions, a double stream of tears flow."

Saved from demolition in 1970 when a park ranger noticed the Chinese
calligraphy, the worn, wooden walls tell immigrants' feelings of anger, despair
and ambition.

While documenting the poems, researchers recently discovered there were dozens
more than the 135 that had been previously translated.

"Every one of those things is a separate voice," Quan said. "If we really take
the time to analyze all of those different things, there's going to be a lot
more history that comes out of there."

They also found more voices from the past in the hospital. After a researcher
found a 1910 letter complaining of immigrants writing on the hospital walls,
state park interpreter Darci Moore ran over to the decaying building with a
flashlight.

Beneath peeling plaster, amid the green algae and mold spreading across the
walls, she found pencil drawings of birds and a bit of Chinese graffiti.

Its message: "When can I get out of here?"

On the Net:

Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation: http://www.aiisf.org

Angel Island: http://www.angelisland.org

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              174 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              May 24, 2002 Friday

Can Europe hold values

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 747 words


STUNNING gains by right-wing parties in recent elections in France and the
Netherlands lend themselves to facile caricatures of Europeans as
immigrant-haters and closet anti-Semites. But this is no fascist revival. What
is happening is a populist groundswell against an entrenched political class
that has been ignoring the dangers of unassimilated immigration by persons --
particularly Muslims -- who reject Western values.

The march of globalization -- and the widening gap between rich and poor
countries -- is attracting ever-larger numbers of immigrants to the United
States, Canada, Western Europe and Australia.

Mindful of the fascist past, Europe's leaders have sought to promote acceptance
of foreigners through an ideology of "multiculturalism." Turbans, veils and
dashikis have become as prominent a feature of European big-city streetscapes as
ethnic cuisines.

The problem is that many recent arrivals are taking multiculturalism as license
to attack the values of their host countries as "decadent." In Amsterdam, a
Muslim Imam preached to the faithful "to not respect the rules in a city run by
a Jew." Another Dutch Imam preached that "homosexuals are worse than dogs." In
Spain, Muslims have taken over Catholic churches to demand that the government
use taxpayer funds to build mosques and pay for Islamic education that teaches
rejection of liberal values.

Pim Fortuyn, the Dutch politician assassinated on May 6, said what others were
thinking but dared not say. Fortuyn, a former journalist and academic who was
openly gay, said that while Judaism and Christianity have for the most part
accepted Western values of democracy and personal freedom, Islam has not. Why,
he asked, should a liberal democratic society like the Netherlands accept the
entry of large numbers of immigrants who categorically reject the nation's
values? Islam, he dared say, is "backward," because of the way it treats women
and homosexuals.

The mainstream press and politicians responded by branding Fortuyn as an
"extremist," linking him to French ultra-rightist Jean Marie Le Pen, who won
almost a fifth of the vote in the recent presidential election. But the two had
little in common other than questioning what is going wrong with European
immigration policy.

For the No. 2 spot on the national ticket, Fortuyn chose Joo Varela, a
27-year-old immigrant from Cape Verde. Varela, a Black African, is now deputy
leader of what has become the second largest party in the Dutch parliament. It
is therefore difficult to argue that the votes for Fortuyn's party were
neo-fascist, anti-Semitic or even anti-immigrant.

The United States is fortunate that most of its immigrants are from Latin
American cultures that accept Western values as their own. Most European
immigrants, on the other hand, are Muslim. Many have readily adopted the values
of their adopted countries -- but many more have not.

So while Americans worry about the threat of occasional terrorist acts that do
not directly endanger basic institutions, Europeans worry that immigrants could
turn back the clock on centuries of costly social gains.

In the three major Dutch cities, immigrants make up more than a third of the
population, and more than half the population of school-age children. Fortuyn
argued that it was time to take a break on immigration, and concentrate on fully
integrating into Dutch society those who had already arrived.

In France, the synagogue burnings that have revived fears of anti-Semitism are
being carried out not by those who voted for Le Pen, but by angry gangs of
Islamic youths.

With the noblest of intentions, Europe's social democrats have tried to promote
an atmosphere of tolerance. But they have failed to recognize that tolerance,
like democracy, must be universally respected within a society. One cannot
tolerate intolerance and maintain a liberal society.

TO be sure, there are neo-fascists and anti-Semites among the supporters of the
likes of Le Pen and Fortuyn. But most of the protest votes are coming from
citizens who have no other way of sending a signal to mainstream politicians
that they must adopt immigration policies that do not endanger liberal
democratic values. As Fortuyn put it, "we have a lot of guests who want to run
the house, and the owners don't like that."

Pacific New Service contributor Andrew Reding is a senior fellow of the World
Policy Institute and a dual citizen of the European Union and the United States.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              175 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              June 2, 2002 Sunday

INS should be dismantled, not reformed

SECTION: OPINIONS/EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 762 words


IT'S clear James Ziglar ought to find another job. Not because he has acquitted
himself poorly as the Bush administration's commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, but because he inherited a beleaguered bureaucracy
hopelessly beyond reform that ought to be dismantled.

Two new reports, from the inspector generals of Social Security Administration
and the Justice Department, provide fresh evidence.

The Social Security Administration's inspector general reported that tens of
thousands of foreign nationals are using fake documents to fraudulently obtain
Social Security numbers. INS issues many of the documents non-Americans use to
show they are eligible for Social Security cards -- including
arrival-and-departure forms, visas and green cards.

Since Sept. 11, the Social Security Administration has asked the immigration
agency to help verify that the foreign identity documents it is presented are
authentic before Social Security issues cards to noncitizens.

However, said James Huse, Social Security's inspector general, the INS has not
been much help.

Which is profoundly troubling because, as his report noted, The tragedies of
Sept. 11 demonstrate that the misuse of Social Security numbers and identity
theft are breeder offenses with the ability to facilitate crimes beyond our
imagination.

Indeed, since Sept. 11, federal law enforcement authorities have apprehended a
frightening number of foreign nationals who have used Social Security numbers to
get airport security badges, providing access to airplanes and restricted areas.

The Transportation Department reports that 367 workers have been arrested at 16
airports, including 130 right in the nation's Capitol.

Which is cause for alarm among lawmakers on Capitol Hill. It's "extremely
dangerous," said Sen. Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican, "when criminals and
terrorists are able to use Social Security numbers to infiltrate American
society."

Meanwhile, a report by the Justice Department's inspector general suggests that
the INS improperly allowed the terrorist Mohamed Atta to re-enter the United
States eight months before the Sept. 11 attacks, despite questions about his
visa status.

Atta, who piloted the jet that hurtled into the World Trade Center's north
tower, should have been turned away in January of last year at the U.S. entry
point in Miami because his application for a student visa had not yet been
approved.

"There was a laxity in the system," said Glenn Fine, Justice's inspector
general, in an interview with the Los Angeles Times.

And recent evidence suggests that the system remains lax even after the attacks
on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.

Just this past March, six months after the terror attacks, the INS notified a
Florida flight school that it had approved student visas for Atta and his jihadi
cousin Marwan Al-Shehhi, who is believed to have piloted the jet that crashed
into the Trade Center's south tower.

The Justice Department report, said Rep. James Sensenbrenner, the Wisconsin
Republican who chairs the House Judiciary Committee, exposes the "dramatic
failure" of INS administrators "to provide clear guidance, policies and
procedures to its front-line employees."

But is there anyone, save for maybe INS Commissioner Ziglar, who believes the
INS can be reformed?

The hard truth that Grassley, Sensenbrenner and their fellow lawmakers now
recognize is that the agency's problems are endemic -- that the INS must be
abolished and its functions turned over to spin-off agencies that can operate
under a different organizational culture.

In fact, the House voted overwhelmingly last month to pull the plug on the INS
and replace it with two separate bureaus.

One will handle services for immigrants, and the other enforcement of
immigration laws.

The only quibble with the otherwise praiseworthy legislation is that it would
place both the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services and Bureau of
Immigration Enforcement under the Justice Department, with associate attorney
generals running the two agencies.

BUT Justice really is not the best department to oversee immigration services.
Better that it falls under the State Department or perhaps a fully cabinet-level
Department of Homeland Security.

But even if the separate bureaus are, ultimately, under Justice, it would still
be a welcome change. Because the INS, as currently structured, is doomed to
continued failure.

Joseph Perkins is a columnist for The San Diego Union-Tribune. E-mail:
Joseph.PerkinsUnionTrib.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              176 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 8, 2002 Saturday

More identify as 'American' in census

BYLINE: By Genaro C. Armas, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The nation of immigrants is again reshaping its identity. While Hispanic
immigration surged in the 1990s, new census figures show a decline in the number
of people identifying themselves as Irish, German and other European ancestries.

More people are simply calling themselves "American."

"When I was younger, my parents explained that you are an American citizen but
your heritage was from Ireland," said Jim Donohue, a New York City investment
banker who has dual citizenship.

Some of Donohue's ancestors came to America as early as the 1860s. While he has
grown closer to his Irish roots in recent years, he said, "I'm definitely an
American first."

Demographer Martha Farnsworth Riche, a former head of the Census Bureau, said,
"The longer you are here, the more it makes you American."

Many Americans are descended from Europeans who arrived in the 1800s or early
1900s.

The data come from the 2000 census long form distributed to about 20 million
households. One question asked people to write in up to two ancestries that
defined their

background.

Overall, while the U.S. population rose 13 percent over the decade to 281
million, the total ancestry responses -- based on a sample -- declined from 296
million in 1990 to 287 million in 2000.

Results for a select number of ancestries from the most recent release showed
declines mainly in European heritage.

Nearly 43 million people, or 15 percent of the country, reported being "German"
in 2000, down 23 percent from nearly 58 million in 1990.

"Irish" or "Celtic" decreased from 38 million [16 percent of the total] to 30
million [11 percent], while "English" decreased from 32 million [13 percent] to
24 million [9 percent].

Census Bureau analyst Campbell Gibson pointed to several reasons for the change.
Many residents who immigrated to the United States in the early 1900s died in
the 1990s.

Also, the question requires write-in answers, which could distort the results
since some may be influenced by the examples of several ancestries provided with
the question, or write in any response on a whim, Gibson says. Others may ignore
the question entirely.

Some ancestries did see increases, including "Arab" and "sub-Saharan African."

More information on Hispanic and Asian ancestries will be released starting
later this month, and they are expected to show an increase.

As for U.S. residents born overseas, the 2000 census showed that over half came
from Latin America, while 16 percent came from Europe. While not directly
comparable because of differences in data collection, the 1990 census showed 44
percent of the foreign-born were from Latin America, and 23 percent from Europe.

The number of people writing in "American" for their ancestry increased from 13
million in 1990 to 20 million in 2000.

Those who are generations removed from immigrants may simply be more comfortable
with "American," Gibson said.

Manfred Schnetzer, vice president of the German-American Citizens League in
Cincinnati, agreed. About 25 percent of Ohio residents said they were German or
part German in 2000, down from 38 percent in 1990.

"Most of the younger [German-Americans] are not learning the language at all.
The parents don't teach them," said Schnetzer.

The tendency to report an ancestry was highest in the Midwest and Northeast, and
lowest in the South. More than one in five people in Kentucky classified
themselves as being of American heritage, the highest rate in the nation.

Nora C. Sheehan, a Milwaukee lawyer born in New York, is 100 percent Irish and
says she would have answered "Irish" had she received the long form.

But Sheehan says she understands why the change is occurring. With more
interracial marriages and people becoming further removed from their roots,
"traditions die out and people don't recognize themselves as anything other than
American."

On the Net:

Census Bureau: www.census.gov/

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              177 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 15, 2002 Saturday

Visa database snags

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 523 words


fraudulent documents

By Justin Jouvenal

S.F. AIRPORT -- In an effort to tighten the nation's borders after Sept. 11,
federal officials unveiled a high-tech tool Friday that makes it easier to snare
people passing fraudulent visas at more than 300 ports of entry.

The expanded "DataShare Initiative," a joint effort between the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and Department of State, allows immigration inspectors to
use a computer database to view a photo and biographical information for people
issued non-immigrant visas.

The idea: inspectors will

know instantly with a simple check if the person holding the visa in front of
them is the same person the visa was issued to in a foreign country -- often
thousands of miles away.

People regularly try to sneak into the United States by forging visas, by
placing their photo on someone else's visa or by using chemicals to "wash"
tracking numbers off the papers and then printing new ones.

INS commissioner James Ziglar said the program sent a blunt message to anyone
trying to tamper with a visa.

"You're going to be caught and we are going to get you," Ziglar said.

He spoke in front of an INS checkpoint at SFO's International Terminal as
hundreds of travelers streamed by.

DataShare, which was launched in January, has helped catch more than 60 people
withfraudulent papers at Miami International Airport, including a Brazilian man
using a 3-year-old boy's papers. The system was also tested at SFO and Newark
International Airport in New Jersey.

DataShare has helped catch two to three people a month at SFO.

The State Department issues 7 to 8 million non-immigrant visas to students,
tourists and other temporary visitors every year at 207 locations around the
globe, Ziglar said.

The applicant must provide a photo and personal information, which is uploaded
into the computer database. Five minutes later, the information is available to
INS inspectors at any of the nation's ports of entry.

The inspectors perform a primary check of travelers, asking them basic questions
and noting their demeanor. If they seem suspicious, they conduct a secondary
check using DataShare.

Jimmy Mollison Jr., an INS inspector at SFO, said the new

system eliminates the headaches of checking up on suspicious travelers.

"We were able to get the information before, but it took an hour," Mollison
said.

Before the expanded DataShare, inspectors would have to call U.S. embassies
abroad to get faxes of grainy photos of travelers. Now, they push a few keys and
a high-quality photo pops up on a computer terminal.

While DataShare is a major step forward, the INS is facing serious problems
retaining inspectors. Ziglar said the agency currently has 40 to 50 vacant
positions at SFO.

The high cost of living in the Bay area and competition with other,
better-paying law enforcement agencies makes it difficult for the INS to find
qualified inspectors, he said.

The DataShare program comes after President Bush aked Congress in March for $27
billion in emergency funding for homeland security and better protection of
airports and borders.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              178 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 5, 2002 Friday

Egyptian national kills two at LAX;
Dead gunman's motive to open fire at airport unknown

BYLINE:  Ryan PearsonASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1149 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An immigrant Eyptian national armed with guns and a knife opened fire Thursday
at Israel's El Al airlines ticket counter at Los Angeles International Airport,
killing two people before an airline security guard shot him dead.

The gunman was Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, 41, a resident of Irvine who came to the
United States from Egypt 10 years ago, the FBI announced after an all-day
investigation.

The man, who also goes by the last name Ali, was a legal resident alien who
worked as a limousine driver, FBI spokesman Matt McLaughlin said. Authorities
were searching a townhome in Irvine, in Orange County southeast of Los Angeles,
late Thursday.

The motive remained uncertain and there was no evidence anyone else was
involved, McLaughlin said

"We've never said it's not terrorism," McLaughlin said. "We can't rule that out,
but there's nothing to indicate terrorism at this point."

The gunman walked into the terminal with a .45-caliber handgun, 9 mm handgun and
a six-inch knife, but carrying no identification, said Ron Iden, assistant
director of the Los Angeles FBI office.

Four other people were injured, including two El Al security guards, the FBI
said.

Thousands were evacuated from the international terminal, although the Federal
Aviation Administration said domestic arrivals and departures continued to
operate normally, and

the international terminal reopened after 9 p.m.

At San Francisco International Airport, duty manager Henry Thompson said the
airport had already increased security protection because of the Independence
Day holiday. He said that no further increase has been made or planned.

The gunman's car was found in an airport parking garage during the evening,
triggering an evacuation of the structure and a precautionary search by a bomb
squad. Neither explosives nor anything unusual was found in the Mercedes, said
police Sgt. John Pasquariello.

The shootout happened with security on high alert around the country for a
possible terrorist attack on July Fourth. It sent passengers ducking behind
counters and hiding in airport offices. The ticket counter was about 100 yards
from the nearest security checkpoint.

Israel's foreign ministry blamed terrorists, but didn't offer any evidence to
support the claim.

Dr. David Parkus heard five or six shots in quick succession, and turned from
the Singapore Airlines counter to see the gunman wrestling with an El Al
security guard. A second guard then charged and shot the gunman, Parkus said. As
the gunman collapsed, Parkus said he saw a long hunting knife fall to the floor.

Parkus said he helped hold the gunman as he died, then performed CPR on two
victims.

One guard was hit on the forehead with the butt of the gun and cut on the right
arm, and the second guard was cut on the lower back, stabbed on the left thigh,
and had a superficial gunshot wound to his right thigh, said Parkus, a trauma
surgeon from Christus St. Elizabeth Hospital in Beaumont, Texas.

One of the victims was Yaakov Aminov, 46. He died of gunshot wounds less than an
hour after arriving at Martin Luther King Jr.-Drew Medical Center, said his
brother-in-law, Mark Ezerzer.

The FBI said the gunman also fatally shot a 20-year-old woman who was a ticket
agent at the El Al counter. El Al said she was an employee of a company that
provides ground services of the airline.

A 61-year-old woman was shot in the ankle, a 40-year-old man was knifed, a man
in his 20s was treated for injuries from a pistol whipping, and a 63-year-old
woman was treated for chest pains, said Los Angeles police spokesman Alex Baez.

Aminov has eight children, including five with his second wife, who is pregnant,
Ezerzer said at the family's North Hollywood home, where relatives gathered
Thursday night. An Orthodox Jew, Aminov owned a jewelry shop.

"It's a big tragedy," said brother-in-law Mike Moshe. "On Friday night dinners,
it was like a king's house. There was food everywhere."

Aminov had taken his friend, Michael Shabtay, to the airport. After being caught
in the spray of gunfire, Aminov collapsed in Shabtay's arms, Ezerzer said.

El Al had one flight scheduled out of Los Angeles Thursday, Flight 106 to
Toronto and Tel Aviv, said David Douek, a spokesman for the Israeli consulate
here. It was scheduled to depart at 4:10 p.m. In Israel early Friday, El Al said
about 10 passengers were checking in for the flight when the attack began and
about 80 others already had passed through the area.

The governor praised the airline's response, saying security agents acted
quickly and prevented a greater loss of life.

Expressing outrage and sadness, Gov. Gray Davis said: "That it happened on the
day on which we honor what America stands for -- liberty, security and diversity
-- makes this particularly more tragic."

"My heart, as well of those of all Californians, aches for the victims of this
shooting and their families," he said.

Witness Hakin Hasidh, 43, of Dusseldorf, Germany, said he was standing in the
line next to the El Al counter. After hearing two shots, he turned and saw the
gunman fire at passengers in line.

"The first couple of shots, everybody just stood there, frozen like I was,"
Hasidh said. "It's really hard to tell whether he was aiming at the counter, at
people behind the counter or at people in line."

Five hours after the shooting, most of the international terminal was reopened.
Thirty-five flights were delayed, for as long as eight hours, affecting 10,500
passengers, said airport spokesman Paul Heney. Some 900,000 people had been
expected to pass through the airport over the holiday weekend from Wednesday
through Sunday.

"The most frustrating thing for us is the lack of information," said Jeff
Kramer, whose 5:15 p.m. flight to Dublin, Ireland, was delayed for at least
three hours. Kramer's partner, Mary Wicker, ate peanuts and pretzels to pass the
time. She said she felt neglected by airport authorities.

Greg Warren, a spokesman for the Transportation Security Administration of the
U.S. Department of Transportation, said the agency will review security
procedures to see if something more needs to be done.

While current airport security doesn't screen people approaching ticket
counters, a $9.6 billion redesign proposal for LAX announced just this week
would require everyone coming to the airport to park away from the terminals and
go through screening before boarding shuttles.

El Al, based in Israel, is known as one of the most security-conscious airlines
in the world.

Last year, an Algerian who trained in terrorist camps financed by Osama bin
Laden was convicted of plotting to blow up Los Angeles International at the
height of the millennium holiday travel period. Ahmed Ressam had been arrested
in Washington state on Dec. 14, 1999, while entering the country from Canada in
a car with a trunk full of explosives.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              179 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                              July 14, 2002 Sunday

Program teaches immigrant women about childcare

BYLINE:  Titania Leung Inglis - CONTRIBUTOR

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 803 words


Like so many before them, Dora Ceballos, Vy Sok and Annie Yu immigrated in
search of the American Dream, but for years the three Oakland women lived a
minimum-wage nightmare.

Ceballos, who had been a secretary in Mexico, took up baby-sitting. Sok, a
farmer in her native Cambodia, worked in a gas station. And Yu, formerly a
student in China, found herself working in a sewing factory.

This spring, though, they took a step toward that dream by enrolling in a course
at an East Bay nonprofit to learn new careers as nannies and daycare providers.

The three recently completed the Caregivers program at the International
Institute of the East Bay, an 83-year-old institution serving refugees and
immigrants through legal and social services and a variety of youth and adult
programs.

Caregivers, a childcare training program, offers applicants deemed "hardest to
serve" _ those with few job skills, no college education, a low income and poor
English _ English and child development classes, internships and job placement,
all free of charge.

Caregivers was started 18 years ago by a group of International Institute
clients, says International Institute Social Services Manager Eve Castellanos.
The women wanted to learn job skills and settled on childcare as their focus.
Institute staff helped the women organize the program and develop the original
curriculum.

In the fall of 2001, the program became affiliated with Merritt College, and two
Merritt instructors teach Caregivers courses for credit. The collaboration
raised Caregivers to "a new level of professionalism," says Castellanos, while
keeping the program's safety net: Unlike ordinary Merritt College students,
Caregivers students receive additional review sessions and individual support at
the Institute.

On a sunny morning at the end of the spring semester, the warm, wood-paneled
Caregivers classroom is filled with women chatting in Cantonese, Spanish,
Vietnamese and English as they wait for teacher Jennifer Briffa to begin an art
project. The students' average age is 39, says Castellanos, and this is the
first time any of them have taken a college class.

Castellanos points out that many of the women [men are eligible for the course,
but so far none have enrolled] are busy at home, with children of their own to
take care of, yet all seem focused on their studies.

"Working and studying full time is peanuts compared to what [the Caregivers
students] do," she says, but the stakes are high: "If they can get a job, they
can improve the lives of themselves and their families."

Childcare and English aren't the only things program participants learn. They
learn self-sufficiency and workers' rights _ including making phone calls and
asking employers for vacation time.

"Ours tell other nannies their rights," Castellanos says proudly, adding, "We're
helping them help themselves." Many women, previously isolated in their ethnic
communities, also make their first friends from other cultures.

Class lets out amid applause and a chorus of thanks, and students Sok, Ceballos
and Yu laugh and chat together like old friends as they tell about their
different backgrounds and their hopes for the future.

Yu and Ceballos are returning students, having graduated from Caregivers in
December but not found work, and Sok and Yu plan to return again for the fall
session. Eventually, Yu and Sok hope to work at daycare centers, but Ceballos
says she would rather work as a nanny, a job that earns a higher salary but
rarely gives benefits.

Caregivers is a step toward a brighter future, but not a guarantee of it.
Castellanos warns that some graduates are exploited by their employers, assigned
janitorial work at their daycare centers or housekeeping work by families. But
with the International Institute's help, they will at least go out into the
world with solid training and a support system.

On a hot, sticky afternoon in late May, the International Institute staff and
some three dozen Caregivers students and their families gather under a tent for
the spring graduation ceremony. Castellanos and Executive Director Herb Castillo
hand out certificates and hugs to the smiling graduates.

Sok bows enthusiastically upon receiving her certificate of completion; Ceballos
and Yu gracefully accept their certificates of participation. Sok and Yu are
honored with special recognition awards for their diligence.

At the potluck dinner that follows, Sok sits by the window with three of her
seven children. Rom, the eldest, announces that she has just graduated from high
school herself and is headed to the University of California, Santa Cruz, in the
fall.

It's been a long, difficult path from the farm in war-torn Cambodia. But this
summer, diplomas in hand, mother and daughter are looking eagerly to the future.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              180 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             July 20, 2002 Saturday

Man suspected of aiding 9/11 hijackers pleads guilty to lying

BYLINE: By Seth Hettena, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Yemeni man who authorities say may have helped some of the Sept. 11 hijackers
pleaded guilty Friday to lying to an immigration officer.

Mohdar Abdullah, a former student at San Diego State University, has been in
federal custody since shortly after the terrorist attacks. He will be given
credit for time served at sentencing on Oct. 8 and likely will be deported to
Yemen, according to his lawyer, Kerry Steigerwalt.

Abdullah, 24, was charged with filing an asylum application in May 2000 in which
he falsely claimed he was from Somalia and was a member of a minority group that
faced persecution there.

On Friday, he acknowledged that he lied to an immigration officer. Abdullah,
whose given name is Al-Mohdar Mohamed Al-Mohdar Zeid, told the officer he
entered the United States on Dec. 7, 1998, at New York on an Italian passport.
In truth, he entered three days later from Canada on a Yemeni passport.

Investigators have said Abdullah was a friend of Khalid Almihdhar, Nawaf Alhazmi
and Hani Hanjour, who crashed American Airlines Flight 77 into the Pentagon.

But the plea did not address the government's allegations that Abdullah helped
the three men obtain Social Security cards and driver's licenses, and telephoned
a flight school in Florida to arrange for flight lessons.

Steigerwalt said the allegations were never substantiated.

"I guess I can just say that if it were true, I would have seen some criminal
charges along those lines," the attorney said.

Steigerwalt has insisted his client had only "incidental" contact with the
hijackers and had no prior knowledge of the attacks.

At his arrest, prosecutors said Abdullah spoke without prompting of "the hatred
in his heart for the United States government."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              181 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            July 24, 2002 Wednesday

Sunnyvale officer accused of extorting cash from immigrants

BYLINE: By Josh Richman,STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 604 words


A veteran Sunnyvale Police officer is accused of using his authority to help
extort money from Korean women forced to work at two local "hostess bars" --
sometimes as prostitutes -- to repay illegal immigration debts, federal
prosecutors say.

FBI agents arrested David Lee Miller Jr., 40, of Morgan Hill, on Monday night
along with owners of the Crystal Palace on West El Camino Real and the Ok Yeo
Bong on South Bernardo Avenue. Agents also executed eight search warrants,
including one for Miller's police department locker.

Miller, a 15-year Sunnyvale Police veteran who has been put on administrative
leave, is charged with two counts each of interstate travel for a racketeering
enterprise involving extortion; interference with commerce by threats and
violence; and conspiracy to commit those crimes.

Also arrested Monday were Crystal Palace owners Roger K. Li, 50, of San
Francisco and Sue Yun Song, 43, of Sunnyvale, and Ok Yeo Bong owners Sang Ye
Han, 42, and Robert Kwong Wong, 53, both of Sunnyvale. Prosecutors claim both
bars recruited young women from Korea and loaned them money for airline tickets
and visas to come to the United States, leaving them with debts of up to $30,000
which they worked at the bars to repay.

Both bars provide patrons with female companionship -- serving of drinks and
conversation -- for a fee. But federal agents claim at least some of the women
were available for sex acts, too.

Miller allegedly took money and sexual favors in return for warnings of police
activity, access to police databases and help in collecting debts from women
working at the clubs. Prosecutors claim Miller at least once went to Hawaii with
Song to collect money she was owed.

Song, Li, Han and Wong each face two conspiracy counts and one count of
interference with commerce by threats and violence; Song, Han and Wong also are
charged with interstate travel for a racketeering enterprise involving
extortion. Each conspiracy and interstate travel count is punishable by up to
five years in federal prison, and each interference with commerce count could
bring up to 20 years.

Han and Wong also face one count each of conspiracy to commit money laundering
and structuring financial transactions to evade reporting, punishable by up to
10 years and up to five years, respectively.And each count in this case is
punishable by a fine of up to $250,000.

All five defendants went before U.S. Magistrate Judge Patricia Trumbull of San
Jose on Tuesday and are being held without bail in the Santa Clara County Jail;
they'll be back in court today.

Sunnyvale Police sought help from the FBI, Internal Revenue Service, and
Immigration and Naturalization Service after a prostitution investigation
revealed possible internal corruption and federal crimes.

Sunnyvale Police Capt. Byron Pipkin said Miller has specialized in crime scene
investigation and evidence collection for about six years, and has been a SWAT
team member for about nine. His annual salary is about $85,000.

"When you have an officer that uses his position of power and authority to
commit crimes... it's devastating and a tragedy for everyone involved," Pipkin
said, adding Sunnyvale Police began and aided the "aggressive investigation" and
hope to regain the community's trust after "this dark time in the history of the
department. We've never had anything like this occur in Sunnyvale before."

Sunnyvale City Council was briefed on the matter Monday night, Mayor Fred Fowler
said. "Obviously we're very concerned about this situation, we are ashamed that
one of our officers was involved."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              182 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            July 24, 2002 Wednesday

Sunnyvale officer accused of extorting cash from immigrants

BYLINE: By Josh Richman,STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 604 words


A veteran Sunnyvale Police officer is accused of using his authority to help
extort money from Korean women forced to work at two local "hostess bars" --
sometimes as prostitutes -- to repay illegal immigration debts, federal
prosecutors say.

FBI agents arrested David Lee Miller Jr., 40, of Morgan Hill, on Monday night
along with owners of the Crystal Palace on West El Camino Real and the Ok Yeo
Bong on South Bernardo Avenue. Agents also executed eight search warrants,
including one for Miller's police department locker.

Miller, a 15-year Sunnyvale Police veteran who has been put on administrative
leave, is charged with two counts each of interstate travel for a racketeering
enterprise involving extortion; interference with commerce by threats and
violence; and conspiracy to commit those crimes.

Also arrested Monday were Crystal Palace owners Roger K. Li, 50, of San
Francisco and Sue Yun Song, 43, of Sunnyvale, and Ok Yeo Bong owners Sang Ye
Han, 42, and Robert Kwong Wong, 53, both of Sunnyvale. Prosecutors claim both
bars recruited young women from Korea and loaned them money for airline tickets
and visas to come to the United States, leaving them with debts of up to $30,000
which they worked at the bars to repay.

Both bars provide patrons with female companionship -- serving of drinks and
conversation -- for a fee. But federal agents claim at least some of the women
were available for sex acts, too.

Miller allegedly took money and sexual favors in return for warnings of police
activity, access to police databases and help in collecting debts from women
working at the clubs. Prosecutors claim Miller at least once went to Hawaii with
Song to collect money she was owed.

Song, Li, Han and Wong each face two conspiracy counts and one count of
interference with commerce by threats and violence; Song, Han and Wong also are
charged with interstate travel for a racketeering enterprise involving
extortion. Each conspiracy and interstate travel count is punishable by up to
five years in federal prison, and each interference with commerce count could
bring up to 20 years.

Han and Wong also face one count each of conspiracy to commit money laundering
and structuring financial transactions to evade reporting, punishable by up to
10 years and up to five years, respectively.And each count in this case is
punishable by a fine of up to $250,000.

All five defendants went before U.S. Magistrate Judge Patricia Trumbull of San
Jose on Tuesday and are being held without bail in the Santa Clara County Jail;
they'll be back in court today.

Sunnyvale Police sought help from the FBI, Internal Revenue Service, and
Immigration and Naturalization Service after a prostitution investigation
revealed possible internal corruption and federal crimes.

Sunnyvale Police Capt. Byron Pipkin said Miller has specialized in crime scene
investigation and evidence collection for about six years, and has been a SWAT
team member for about nine. His annual salary is about $85,000.

"When you have an officer that uses his position of power and authority to
commit crimes... it's devastating and a tragedy for everyone involved," Pipkin
said, adding Sunnyvale Police began and aided the "aggressive investigation" and
hope to regain the community's trust after "this dark time in the history of the
department. We've never had anything like this occur in Sunnyvale before."

Sunnyvale City Council was briefed on the matter Monday night, Mayor Fred Fowler
said. "Obviously we're very concerned about this situation, we are ashamed that
one of our officers was involved."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              183 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 8, 2002 Thursday

Chinese girl's visa good for six months;
 12-year-old who skipped out on space camp is staying with her uncle in
Massachusetts

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 530 words


and Emily Fancher STAFF WRITERS The 12-year old Chinese girl who slipped away
from her tour group at San Francisco International Airport last week could stay
in the United States up to six months with the visa she now has, a tour official
said Wednesday.

Yukun Jia, who resurfaced with relatives in Amherst, Mass. over the weekend,
received a recommendation to travel to the U.S. from her junior high school and
likely comes from a middle- or upper-class family, according to a tour official.

"We screen so carefully, which is why we are so puzzled that this incident
occurred," said John Brown, managing director of Futton, Inc.

The San Francisco company brought Jia's tour group of 27 Chinese students to the
United States to attend Space Camp in Huntsville, Ala., visit Disneyland and
tour the Grand Canyon.

But since Jia disappeared from SFO last Thursday, speculation has swirled that
she may be trying to seek asylum in the U.S. If that is true, she would be the
youngest-known subject of an asylum case since Elian Gonzalez's relatives filed
on his behalf in 2000 to prevent his return to Cuba, immigration lawyers said.

So far, Jia's intentions remain a mystery.

Jia's uncle, Nan Tian Wang, refused to comment on her plans during several calls
to his Amherst home this week. And Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials refuse to comment on people seeking asylum, for safety and privacy
reasons.

The Chinese consulate in San Francisco is pressing the U.S. government to

talk with Jia to learn her intentions, but so far officials have found out
little about the girl.

"We want to know her thoughts. We want to know her plans," said Lei Hong, a
spokesman for the Chinese consulate. "We have contacted the State Department to
help us get in touch with her."

Hong said officials are also trying to contact Jia's parents in China about her
situation.

Margaret Miller Ibrahim, who was an asylum officer at the INS's San Francisco
office for nine years, says Jia has a good chance of being granted asylum. The
national attention on Jia's case and the speculation about Jia's defection
"embarrassed the Chinese government."

Even if Jia never intended to defect, she may now be at risk of persecution if
she returns home, says Ibrahim, who added that China could easily brand her a
12-year-old dissident.

"The system is lenient in this situation. They recognize that refugee situations
are difficult," said Ibrahim, who left the INS last year to go into private
practice.

Ibrahim said the most common reasons that Chinese seek asylum are that they are
members of persecuted religions, such as Falun Gong, Christianity or Islam; they
are political dissidents; or they are fleeing the forced abortions and
sterilization of China's one-child family-planning policy.

Jia's tour group reported her missing about three hours after their flight
arrived at SFO from Beijing. The report touched off a massive two-day search.
State officials briefly initiated an Amber Alert for Jia on Friday.

Police later learned Jia met her uncle at SFO and caught a flight to
Massachusetts, where she was found on Saturday. She has remained there since.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              184 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday

Grandmother's legal fight for green card ends in INS reform;
After the death of her daughter, she was threatened with deportation

BYLINE: By Justin Pritchard, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


One family's effort to keep a 74-year-old grandmother from being deported to
China ended happily Wednesday for the woman, whose personal victory will benefit
hundreds of other immigrants.

It took an act of Congress for Zhenfu Ge to be able to stay in the United States
and help her American son-in-law care for her grandchildren. The need has been
acute since their mother, Ge's daughter, died last year.

On Wednesday, Ge emerged from an Immigration and Naturalization Service hearing
with her green card.

Ge's improbable story began in April 2001, when she was mere days from getting
the green card but her daughter -- and sponsor of her application for permanent
residency -- succumbed to cancer.

Under the law at that time, Ge's chances of staying legally in the United States
died with her daughter. But Ge's case has changed that law.

After learning of her plight, Congress passed legislation that let Ge's American
son-in-law take over sponsorship of her greencard. Before the new law passed in
March, only a child, sibling, spouse or parent of an applicant could do that.

"In this democratic country, you can make things happen like this," Ge said
Wednesday through a translator. "Now I have the legal presence in this country
to fulfill the will of my daughter."

That means Ge will be able to live in nearby Sausalito and rear her 4-year-old
granddaughter and adolescent grandson.

At times, that seemed an impossibility during the odyssey of the past 16 months,
said Ge's son-in-law, John Mark.

After an initial rush of coverage in the mainstream and Chinese-language press,
Mark, 51, petitioned elected leaders for help.

They obliged by introducing "private relief" legislation to let Ge stay.

Ge's bill, sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Lynn Woolsey, both
California Democrats, appeared on its way to the president's desk when lawmakers
decided to address the issue with a broader stroke. The resulting law signed by
President Bush lets anyone with a pending green card application change family
sponsors if the original sponsor dies -- so long as INS had approved the
original application.

The change -- long desired by immigrant advocates -- seemed unlikely in the
post-Sept. 11 climate of scrutinizing immigration policy. But the facts of Ge's
case were compelling.

"You have the paradigm of the sympathetic family -- the little kid who's just
adorable, a death in the family," said Ivy Lee, a San Francisco lawyer who
helped Ge negotiate the INS bureaucracy.

Feinstein called Wednesday's outcome one of the "limited number of times when
you can see a legislative action have a human and very personal result."

Ge said she is grateful for the chance to stay, but even more proud that the law
will benefit potentially hundreds of other immigrants.

Early Wednesday morning, she came to the INS office in San Francisco and --
contrary to her experience in April 2001 -- whisked through the process with a
sympathetic hearing officer.

A copy of the legislation was in her case file as INS bureaucrats fingerprinted
Ge and asked routine questions, such as whether she has committed a crime. After
a cordial 10 minutes, they stamped her Chinese passport with what amounts to a
temporary green card.

The official document can take more than a year to arrive by mail, but the stamp
she got Wednesday will let Ge travel to China. She had not been able to leave
the country before the receiving the stamp.

She's taking advantage: the family is booked to fly Sunday to Shanghai, where
her surviving daughter and two sons live. She hasn't seen them since coming to
the San Francisco Bay Area in 1998.

Ge said her heart was pumping and her eyes misted over when the INS officer
stamped her passport -- unusual, Mark said, for such a stoic woman.

Mark just felt relieved.

"There is that little compartment in your mind that thinks something could go
wrong," he said. "I was completely apolitical, so for me to get involved with
all this stuff was so out of character. But it worked."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              185 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 15, 2002 Thursday

SFO's lost and found girl wants asylum;
Chinese 12-year-old and her father to apply to stay in United States

BYLINE: ,Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 365 words


AMHERST, Mass. -- A 12-year-old Chinese girl who disappeared after arriving at
San Francisco Airport with a tour group and reappeared with relatives in Amherst
will seek asylum in the United States, her lawyer said.

Yukun Jia arrived in Amherst on Aug. 1 and joined her father, who has been in
this country since 2000.

Their reunion was part of a family plan that went amiss because Yukun's mother
was unable to leave China as planned and is in hiding, lawyer Shen-Shin Lu said
Tuesday.

Yukun's mother, Hong Jia, and her husband hoped to seek asylum together on the
grounds that Hong was forced to have two abortions under China's "one child"
population control policy, Lu said.

Yukun and her father, Bing Jia, are expected to apply for asylum as early as
Friday, but that could be complicated by the fact that the father is in this
country illegally. The Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered him
deported last week after the agency learned he was in the country.

Lu said he hopes to avoid deportation by seeking asylum.

An INS spokeswoman wouldn't comment Wednesday on the father's case. However, Amy
Otten at the INS office in Burlington, Vt., noted that the girl's visitor's visa
is good for up to six months.

The Chinese consulate in San Francisco said that Chinese officials recently
learned the father was in the United States. The Chinese government last week
asked the State Department to arrange a meeting with him.

Authorities initially feared that Yukun may have been kidnapped when she
disappeared from a Chinese tour group during a layover in San Francisco on a
trip to Space Camp in Huntsville, Ala.

The San Mateo County Sheriff's Office said the girl's relatives met her at SFO.
Adult leaders of the tour group of about 30 young people had told investigators
Yukun had signed a document claiming she had no relatives in the United States.

Jia's disappearance touched off a massive search that lasted more than a day.
San Francisco Police and San Mateo County sheriff's deputies scoured the airport
looking for Jia, and California Highway Patrol briefly activated an amber alert.

Staff writer Justin Jouvenal contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              186 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             August 16, 2002 Friday

Fox's canceled trip to Texas seen as nod to powers at home;
Mexico's leader tones down relations with U.S. over execution By Traci Carl

BYLINE: By Traci Carl , Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 762 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Under pressure from critics who say his close friendship with President Bush has
not paid off, President Vicente Fox's cancellation of his trip to the U.S.
leader's Texas ranch has cooled relations with Washington but enhanced his power
to get things done at home.

Fox has struggled with a hostile Congress that has blocked his proposals or
modified them beyond recognition and, in one case, prevented him from traveling
to the United States, arguing that he needed to focus more on Mexico.

Late Wednesday, hours after Texas ignored his pleas and put a Mexican-American
drug smuggler to death for killing a Dallas police officer, Fox canceled his
Aug. 26 to 28 trip to four Texas cities and to visit Bush at his ranch in
Crawford, where he had planned to push the U.S. president for an immigration
accord.

Some Mexican politicians have felt that Bush has increasingly abandoned this
country after the Sept. 11 attacks shifted the focus of U.S. foreign policy from
immigration reform to fighting terrorism. Some argue that Fox's cozy ties with
the U.S. president have accomplished little south of the border.

"It seems there is much giving, and we get nothing but smiles in return," said
Mexican lawmaker Eddie Varon, a member of the former ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party. "Things are going to be taken seriously now."

That sentiment is a far cry from the optimism on both sides of the border in
February 2001, when Fox and Bush -- both newly elected -- walked like old
friends around the pond at Fox's ranch and talked about ways to ease illegal
immigration.

Yet even then, some Mexicans complained the meeting was overshadowed by U.S. and
British airstrikes against Iraq, which took place hours before Fox and Bush
emerged for a joint news conference in Fox's front yard.

Fox's decision on Wednesday "is an unequivocal signal of rejection of the
execution," said his spokesman Rodolfo Elizondo. "It would be inappropriate, in
these lamentable circumstances, to go ahead with the visit to Texas."

White House spokesman Jimmy Orr said Bush, a former Texas governor, respects
President Fox and the two have an excellent professional relationship and a
strong friendship. He had no comment about Fox's decision or on when the meeting
would be rescheduled.

Fox spokeswoman Alicia Buenrostro, in a visit to The Associated Press' Mexico
City bureau on Thursday, said the two leaders have excellent communication,
adding: Bush understands the situation perfectly. She also had no date for their
next meeting.

But many analysts said there was no question that Fox's decision hurt the
relationship.

George Grayson, a Mexico expert at the College of William & Mary in
Williamsburg, Va., compared it to shooting yourself in the foot with a machine
gun.

Mexico has never had a president in the White House more pro-Mexico than George
Bush, so why gratuitously offend him? Grayson asked.

But while the decision hurt his close ties with Bush, it boosted Fox's position
at home, where critics say Fox spends too much time cozying up to the United
States and too little working on domestic policy.

His U.S. focus has hurt Fox in Congress and been a factor in his failure to pass
much of his agenda to change Mexico after 71 years of single-party rule. The
cancelation of the trip was a clear signal to a Congress that has blocked him at
every step.

This favors the day-to-day internal work environment with Congress, Buenrostro
conceded.

Varon, the congressman, applauded Fox's decision, saying it would help the
president in his troubled relationship with lawmakers at a time when Fox is
desperately trying to push through reforms that would allow more private
investment in the energy sector and relax labor laws.

I think the president showed great statesmanship, because he listened to the
voice of the people and to the voice of Congress, Varon said. When we have U.S.
congressmen coming here complaining, the first thing I'm going to do is to say,
Respect our laws.'

At least four other Mexican nationals have been executed in Texas, and 18
Mexican inmates are on death row there. But no execution prompted a response
from a Mexican president as strong as Fox's on Wednesday.

Some Mexicans believed the reaction was too strong.

Waiting outside the U.S. Embassy while his wife applied for a tourist visa to
shop at a U.S. mall, Gregorio Cabrera said Mexico had to respect the U.S.
justice system. He said Fox's decision to cancel his trip could be
misinterpreted by the United States.

This really could be bad, Cabrera said.>

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              187 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 24, 2002 Saturday

81 suspected of using fake IDs to get SoCal airport jobs arrested

BYLINE: By Paul Wilborn, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Eighty-one people working at Southern California airports who allegedly used
false identities to obtain jobs with top level security badges were arrested as
part of a national crackdown to improve protection of airports, authorities said
Friday.

The arrests, mostly of Hispanic illegal immigrants, drew protests from
immigrants' rights groups and union officials.

U.S. Attorney Debra W. Yang announced the arrests, saying the safety of the
traveling public "required us to examine those with access to the most secure
portions of the airports."

None of the arrested workers had ties to any terrorist groups, Yang said. Most
were charged with using Social Security numbers that did not belong to them.

The nine-month "Operation Tarmac" investigation examined the backgrounds and
identities of more than 40,000 workers at Los Angeles International, Ontario
International, Long Beach Municipal and John Wayne Airport. Some were employees
of airlines including Delta and Continental, but most were employed by other
private firms as janitors, baggage handlers and maintenance workers.

Those indicted all carried security badges that gave them access to airplanes,
runways and other secure areas and allowed them to bypass airport security
checkpoints.

More than 150 protesters from labor unions representing immigrant workers
marched outside the federal courthouse Friday protesting the crackdown.

"We should not scapegoat our immigrants in the name of security," said David
Huerta, an organizer with the Service Employees International Union.

Huerta and other protesters said they would call on President Bush, who was
visiting California, to demand a change in immigration laws that would allow
more illegal workers to gain necessary papers.

Illegal workers with high-level access posed a "vulnerability" to airport
security, said Joseph Greene, assistant commissioner for investigations with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Even without ties to terrorist organizations, illegal immigrants could be
threatened with exposure or bribed to provide access or carry weapons into
secure areas, Greene said.

The number of illegal workers is only a fraction of the workers at the region's
airports, Yang said. Of the 39,150 workers checked at Los Angeles International,
only 47, or only about 0.12 percent were found to have obtained badges
illegally. Workers indicted at other airports included: 51 at John Wayne; six at
Ontario International; and one at Long Beach Airport.

A check at the Palm Springs airport found no illegal workers.

The arrests started Thursday and continued Friday. Although some of the arrested
workers were released on bail or on their own recognizance, they were often
subsequently picked up by INS investigators for immigration violations, said
Thom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney. Those who remained at large will
be treated as fugitives, Yang said.

The raid began about 9:30 a.m. Thursday east of Los Angeles at the Ontario
airport, which employs about 1,000 workers, said Airport Police Acting Chief
David Hanlon.

"It was very low-key," Hanlon said of the operation. "They talked to the people
they were looking for and they took them away."

At Long Beach airport, agents arrested a stock clerk who had worked at a
restaurant for eight years, said airport spokeswoman Sharon Diggs-Jackson. Among
those arrested at Los Angeles International was an employee of McDonald's,
authorities said.

Companies who hired the workers also face investigation and possible charges or
fines, said Greene.

The investigation and arrests involved the California Department of Motor
Vehicles, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Marshals Service, the
Social Security Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              188 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 29, 2002 Thursday

Immigrants find re-creations of homeland in Bay, state

BYLINE: By Karen Gaudette, Associated Press

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


With its trademark fog spilling over from San Francisco, Daly City appears to
share little with the hot beaches and steamy jungles of Brazil -- except, that
is, Brazilians.

While Daly City is better known as a destination for Filipino immigrants, Paulo
Fales, 41, says its Brazilian community has grown steadily to 5,000 since he
arrived eight years ago from the central state of Goias. He imports
Brazilian-style snacks, sweets and soft drinks to his land-investment business
and frequents a Brazilian bar in San Francisco.

Like many immigrants, Fales came to California for economic opportunities he
couldn't find back home.

"They make $200 there and here they can make $3,000" doing similar work, Fales
said.

Overall, the Bay Area is home to the largest concentrations of immigrants from
India, the Philippines, Malaysia, Nicaragua and Guatemala.

Mexico is by far the largest country of origin statewide. In neighborhoods
across San Mateo County, nearly 60 percent of Latino or Hispanic residents are
foreign-born, according to U.S. Census figures released this week, with Redwood
City, San Mateo and Daly City showing some of the highest concentrations.

Hundreds of these ethnic pockets are scattered around California, often creating
sections of cities in which newcomers have opened businesses and churches to
recreate favorite aspects of their homelands.

Immigrants who have acclimated say such communities help newcomers adjust to an
often daunting new life.

In a state where one in four residents was born outside the country, new census
data show most of California's nearly 9 million immigrants don't have far to
look to find a sense of home -- whether it's the latest hits from Vietnam on a
Santa Ana radio station or fresh pupusas -- Salvadoran snacks -- in San
Francisco's Mission district.

Some 68 percent of Daly City's Asian population is foreign-born, according to
the same census data, followed by Redwood City with nearly 66 percent of the
Asian population hailing from outside the U.S., San Mateo with 64 percent, South
San Francisco with 63 percent and Atherton with 61 percent.

Concentrations of foreign-born residents have forced changes in local
governments and community groups. Voters guides and hospital forms often are
available in languages including Farsi, Russian and Cantonese.

For the first time in San Mateo County, the ballot for the Nov. 5 gubernatorial
election will be printed in Chinese and Spanish as well as English.

Businesses increasingly style their decor and marketing efforts to mesh with a
target group's customs and residency situations.

Bank interiors in San Francisco's Chinatown are painted red, a fortunate color
in that culture. The Century Club in L.A. County's Century City offers
entertainment geared toward Asian, Armenian and Latino customers. And it's not
alone -- at cultural festivals from San Diego to Eureka, electric and gas
utilities market low-income discount programs to immigrant groups.

The bank Julio Melara manages in San Francisco's Mission district stays open all
day Saturday, giving his Salvadoran customers coming from as far as Sacramento
and Monterey time to both wire money home and enjoy home-style cuisine down the
block.

The neighborhood has long been synonymous with the city's Mexican population.
While there are nearly 23,000 Mexicans in San Francisco, the city also has more
than 14,000 Salvadorans, 7,000 Nicaraguans and nearly 5,000 Guatemalans,
according to the census. Flags from various countries flutter from car antennas
and restaurant awnings.

Melara says the Central American cuisine selection near Banco Agricola de El
Salvador has grown abundantly since he arrived in 1983, largely due to families
moving north after they found their feet in Los Angeles.

"They have been living in Los Angeles for six months or one year or something
like that," said Melara, who previously worked in El Salvador's banking
industry. "When they come to the north of California, they know something of how
to do and what to do."

Yolo and Los Angeles counties vied with Sacramento for the most concentrated
Russian and Ukrainian communities. The Sacramento area's mild winters hardly
recall the subzero blasts that pummel Eastern Europe -- a welcome relief to the
nearly 19,000 Russian and Ukrainian immigrants who call it home.

Staff Writer Jean Whitney contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              189 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            August 29, 2002 Thursday

Sept. 11 unraveled immigrant's American life

SECTION: MORE HEADLINE NEWS

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: CORNING


FBI interrogations led to INS arrest and now man must leave his familyBy Herbert
A. SampleSACRAMENTO BEE

Within the next few days, a businessman from this small California town will be
escorted onto an airplane for a long, tedious flight to Pakistan, his wrists in
handcuffs.

The trip will come after weeks of insinuations from federal authorities that
Nasir Ali Mubarak, a resident of this town for five years, either has links to
terrorists or is one himself. They never formalized the allegations and have yet
to prove them.

And now they won't have to.

Mubarak, who has been confined in jail since early June, agreed last week not to
fight the INS on a single, run-of-the-mill immigration violation and to be
deported to Pakistan. His wife, a nearly lifelong resident here, and two small
children will stay behind, at least temporarily.

Mubarak's allies -- and he has many here -- believe the U.S. government has
bullied a friendly, hardworking man whose one major fault was a tangled romantic
life. Mubarak, 34, says he loves his adopted country of 11 years and is
crestfallen about how his life has turned upside down.

"It's completely unfair," he said in an interview after the deportation order
was issued. Before immigrating in 1991, "I hear the United States [is] the best
place for human rights. ... That was big lie. Now, I know."

Marc Van Der Hout, Mubarak's lawyer, said the fact U.S. authorities aren't
fighting the departure is telling.

"Given that the government is willing to deport him demonstrates that there was
nothing to the allegations of terrorism," Van Der Hout said.

Otherwise, he added, "They would have locked him up for a long time."

Federal officials refuse to discuss the case. So when Mubarak's plane departs,
one sizeable question will linger: Is he a terrorist or an unwitting victim of
the war on terrorism?

According to interviews with him and his wife, lawyer and supporters, Mubarak
long had dreamed of learning to fly. He attended several flight schools in the
United States, part of the time with a Kuwaiti acquaintance from the UAE named
Abdul Hakim Murad. Murad was later linked to terrorist activities.

Mubarak finally settled in Corning where he and a friend started A&B Aircraft
Painting on the fringe of the town's dusty airport.

After several short-lived marriages, Mubarak married Stephanie Jolley, then 26.
Jolley, who recently had divorced her first husband, said she was unconcerned
about her new husband's previous romances.

Finally, all seemed well for Mubarak. His newest request for legal residency was
progressing, in part because a former wife had signed a notarized statement
saying her marriage to Mubarak was real and not aimed at thwarting immigration
laws.

Then Sept. 11 happened.

The afternoon of the attacks, two FBI agents showed up at Mubarak's business to
interview him. Their report, contained in court documents, outlined Mubarak's
personal history but included no direct evidence linking him to a terrorist
plot.

"At the conclusion of the interview, Mubarak reiterated his condemnation of the
terrorist attacks and offered to provide any assistance as needed," the report
said.

Stephanie Mubarak said her husband was horrified by the Sept. 11 attacks. He and
a friend donated blood, she recalled. After President Bush publicly appealed for
help from persons with language skills, Mubarak, who speaks five languages,
applied with the FBI -- an action the agency acknowledges.

When FBI agents interviewed Mubarak on May 28 and June 2, he acknowledged having
known Murad 10 years before but denied having had contact with him since,
according to their reports. The reports, contained in court documents, disclosed
no connection to terrorism, but after the second meeting, the INS arrested him.

Four days after his arrest, an ex-wife who had been granted immunity from
prosecution signed a sworn statement that she never had lived with Mubarak and
that her marriage to him was a sham. Further, she claimed, Mubarak had offered
her $15,000 to marry him, though she never received it.

The INS obtained sworn statements from others corroborating the allegations.

But from the first of several bail hearings in immigration court that began in
late June, it was clear the government was after more than routine immigration
violations. Searches of the Mubaraks' home turned up aerial pictures of the
Statue of Liberty and the World Trade Center, snapshots of Murad, and invoices
for chemical purchases.

Van Der Hout, Mubarak's lawyer, says there are perfectly reasonable explanations
for each item: The New York City pictures, he said, were taken when Mubarak was
in flight school 11 years ago.

Van Der Hout said the pictures with Murad were taken before he left the country
in 1992 and that the chemicals were purchased for Mubarak's business, which
involves chemically stripping planes to bare metal before repainting.

For a dejected Mubarak, the debate has ended. Last week, he told immigration
judge Alberto Gonzalez he no longer wanted to fight deportation.

Mubarak is angry that authorities have yet to prove he has anything to do with
terrorism.

"This is not a game. This is my life, my wife's life," Mubarak said. "I really
want to go back home after [being] insulted. ... I want to go back where I can
breathe free."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              190 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            September 2, 2002 Monday

Plan to track foreign students is full of problems;
Some say post-9/11 law is too difficult to implement and won't help anyway

BYLINE: By Jill Tucker

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 1285 words


and Petra KrimphoveSTAFF WRITERS

In the late 1980s, the Immigration and Naturalization Service gave up trying to
keep tabs on the half million international students who study in this country
each year.

They literally couldn't handle the mountain of paperwork needed to document when
these students arrived on campus, enrolled in classes, finished a degree program
or changed their addresses.

As a result, the INS simply lost track of foreign students from the time they
arrived here until they left -- often years later, if ever.

After Sept. 11, that was unacceptable.

Hani Hanjour, the hijacker who authorities think flew Flight 77 into the
Pentagon, entered the United States on a student visa to study English with
Berlitz, located on the Holy Names College campus in Oakland.

He never showed up.

Outraged officials called for immediate reform.

Spurred into action by congressional mandate, the INS will now require the
country's 74,000 educational institutions admitting international students --
from beauty schools to the Ivy League -- to participate in a computerized
tracking system by Jan. 30, 2003.

But university administrators, who generally support the overall idea, say the
current plan is a costly rush job aimed at soothing public anxiety rather than
creating a smooth system to process vast amounts of information and prevent
terrorism.

When up and running, the new system will allow the INS, on any given day, to
determine when and if students ever showed up on campus and whether they signed
up for a full course load as required by their visas.

And that's fine, university officials say, if the goal is to ensure students are
adhering to INS rules.

But will this tracking system help stop terrorists?

Doubtful, those same officials say.

The new system generally will only track students once each semester, to ensure
they enroll, not whether they attend class.

"The idea that you can defend yourself against terrorism by doing that is a
little bit suspect because people could go to class on Monday and build the bomb
on Saturday," said Victor Johnson, associate executive director for public
policy, Association of International Educators. "There are a lot of hopes being
invested in this that are probably unfounded in an anti-terrorism point of
view."

Nonetheless, since the Sept. 11 attacks, federal officials have sought to
tighten controls on immigration in any way they can. International students --
who make up but 2 percent of the country's 30 million international visitors
each year -- quickly became a top priority.

"Why this focus on students?"

Johnson asked. "I think part of the answer is clear. You monitor who you can."

As part of the federal Patriot Act signed in October, officials set aside $36
million for the INS to implement the Student and Exchange Visitor Information
System [SEVIS].

Local and national education officials have requested a delay in the Jan. 30
deadline, saying they don't have enough time or money to set up the system and
train staff.

Each academic institution must pay for the installation and upkeep of its own
system -- with estimates ranging from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands
of dollars.

"We recognize that the INS is under enormous political pressure, but the fact
remains that such an expectation is simply impossible to meet, despite the best
intentions of the schools," wrote Marlene Johnson, executive director of the
Association for International Educators, in a letter to INS officials.

INS officials, however, say the Jan. 30 deadline is unlikely to change.

Across the Bay Area, there are thousands of international students at local
colleges, universities, trade schools and high schools at any given time.

These students, like all other international students, apply to local
universities and colleges and once accepted are eligible to apply for a visa,
typically an F1 student visa to study at that particular institution. They can
remain in the country for the expected duration of their degree program -- or
apply for an extension if necessary.

U.C. Berkeley has about 2,500 full-time international students and even more
through the Extension programs. California State University, Hayward enrolls up
to 1,500. Stanford University hosts nearly 5,000.

Some academic officials said they fear the student crackdown could deter
international applicants -- who fear an invasion of privacy -- from coming here.

Under current guidelines, local students said they don't mind providing the
government with enrollment information and address changes.

"I have no problem with that," said Ryoto Shirai, of Tokyo, after attending a UC
Berkeley "Staying Legal" orientation meeting for new international students.
"It's understandable after 9-11."

But others said they are a bit uneasy about how far the INS might go in the
future to keep tabs on international students and visitors.

"They are becoming a bit blunt about their invasion [of privacy]," said Soroosh
Yazdani, 25, a Canadian citizen born in Iran. "But I don't have any right to
object to it."

The mathematics doctoral candidate did say further restrictions or monitoring in
the future could prompt him to give up on his degree program in the U.S.

Klaus Mueller, a German engineering student studying at UC Berkeley for the
summer, said he also doesn't mind the current tracking system, but doubts it
will do much to deter terrorism.

"If you're a terrorist, you do everything you're supposed to do," he said. "You
don't get a traffic ticket, you go to class."

Local university officials echoed Mueller's opinion.

Although a real-time tracking system will be helpful to follow up on a student's
paperwork, quickly creating a system in the name of preventing terrorism is not
practical or realistic, said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of
the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.

Even if universities are able to meet the deadline, the real question is how
well the INS will be able to respond to the huge amount of data.

The INS has been under fire since Sept. 11 for shoddy record keeping, including
approving a visa application for two of the hijackers six months after the
attacks and storing two million unprocessed immigration documents in a Missouri
warehouse.

So far, there is no extra money for additional INS enforcement once SEVIS is in
place -- resulting in the identification of hundreds or perhaps thousands of
students who are not in compliance with their visas.

"We're building a reinforced steel door on a rotten wooden frame," Nassirian
said.

INS officials said they will take whatever action is "appropriate and necessary"
after reviewing the data.

"We don't want to outline precise actions and timelines," Bergeron said
regarding what, if any, actions would be taken in the event a student fails to
enroll full-time, for example. "You're going to look at the [reports] and
prioritize based on the circumstances."

Federal officials say one urgently needed benefit of SEVIS will be to quickly
identify students who arrive in the country, but fail to show up on campus. The
INS then could notify law enforcement or state and federal officials in case
they encounter that individual, say during a traffic stop.

But will any of us be the safer for it?

"As a citizen, absent my involvement with the international community, my own
personal opinion is that there is not safety for any of us," Goode said. "We can
be as careful as we can. Ultimately, danger is always lurking around the corner
-- not to become paranoid or paralyzed by it."

Staff writer Michele Marcucci contributed to this story.>

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              191 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 23, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO GROUPS LOBBY FOR BLANKET AMNESTY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 92 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Worried that the Bush administration may be tiptoeing away from a proposal to
legalize millions of undocumented immigrants, representatives of several major
Latino organizations headed to the White House on Wednesday to warn that such a
move would backfire with Latino voters.

Heading into Wednesday's meeting, representatives of the Latino groups said they
were concerned by recent reports suggesting that the administration was backing
away from consideration of a broad legalization program and is focused instead
on a guest-worker program.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                August 30, 2001 Thursday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

ANGEL ISLAND ACCOUNTS SOUGHT

BYLINE: MARILEE ENGE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 281 words


Albert Wong remembers rows upon rows of bunk beds, three tiers high, and guards
carrying guns. Another 11-year-old boy was his only playmate for the six weeks
young Albert was detained on Angel Island in 1934.

Now 79, Wong's memories of the Angel Island immigration station are the snapshot
recollections of a child -- the small outdoor yard, the long staircase, marching
to the mess hall for meals. After a 21-day voyage from China, he landed at Angel
Island with his father, already a U.S. citizen, and was promptly held in
prison-like conditions until it could be proved he was his real son.

Stories like Wong's belong to the American narrative, but until recently they
were more of a hidden history.

Now, the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation (AIISF) is attempting to
collect as many of these stories as possible, before the generation of
immigrants who passed through the island as children is gone.

Angel Island was the first stop for immigrants crossing the Pacific Ocean from
1910 to 1940. But its greatest significance comes from its role in the migration
of 175,000 Chinese who faced harsh exclusionary laws designed to protect jobs
for American laborers.

On Wednesday, AIISF, a non-profit group that works to preserve, restore and
interpret the immigration station in San Francisco Bay, announced a public
search for surviving detainees. AIISF hopes to collect the oral histories,
photos and artifacts of people who passed through the station in its 30 years of
operation.

The organization asks anyone with information about a detainee, or with
documents or artifacts, to call: (415) 561-2161. More information is available
at www.aiisf.org.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 2, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS, COPS ATTEMPT TO OVERCOME CULTURE GAP MASS-SLAYING CASE ILLUSTRATES
PROBLEMS

BYLINE: LORI ARATANI AND SEAN WEBBY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1188 words


By Lori Aratani and Sean WebbyMercury News The hunt for Nikolay Soltys, the
27-year-old Ukrainian immigrant suspected of killing six members of his family,
illustrates an important challenge law enforcement officials face as California
and the nation's population continues to grow more diverse: How can they
cultivate ties with new immigrant communities isolated by language and cultural
barriers, and who often harbor a silent mistrust of law enforcement?

As they celebrated Soltys' capture last week, Sacramento County Sheriff Lou
Blanas said the ordeal has helped dispel some distrust of police among members
of the Ukrainian community and taught officers valuable lessons in dealing with
the group.

Police in California have a long history -- until recently, not especially
distinguished -- of dealing with crime and public safety in ethnic enclaves.
Over the past generation or two, they've become more enlightened about dealing
with established Chinese-American, Japanese-American and Mexican-American
communities. But at the same time, new communities of refugees from Southeast
Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union have
sprung up.

Police recognize the need to serve these communities, but in the face of rapidly
shifting demographics, they admit it's hard keeping up, especially if the new
arrivals come from places where political and religious repression give them a
distrust of anyone with a gun and badge.

The Soltys case

In the early days of the 10-day manhunt for Soltys, which ended in the suburban
back yard of his mother's house, investigators often expressed frustration with
members of the Ukrainian community who seemed reluctant to speak out and step
forward despite the grisly nature of the crime. Investigators said even family
members kept silent.

For example, Soltys' mother, Varvara Soltys, gave conflicting accounts of her
son's whereabouts the day of the killings, first telling officials he did not
come to her home and then acknowledging that he did.

Slowly, with the help of community leaders and local Russian media,
investigators helped piece together a strategy to help put the immigrant
community at ease.

"We learned a lot about the Ukrainian community and they learned a lot about law
enforcement," Blanas said. "What this has done is knocked down a lot of those
fences."

In the end, it was Soltys' brother who made that call that led to the former
shoemaker's arrest.

Sacramento is not the only city searching for ways to deal with new immigrant
communities. Throughout the country, departments are aggressively courting
immigrant communities in an effort to build trust.

"It's a constant battle to get officers to see the importance of establishing
close ties with all parts of the community," said Fresno Police Chief Jerry
Dyer. "You have to understand the benefits: It gains their trust, they are more
willing to volunteer, more willing to become witnesses, more willing to support
us and more willing to allow us to police their neighborhoods."

Dyer, who was sworn in as chief a month ago, said he plans to establish an
advisory board for ethnic groups. Even though many cultural problems will
subside as groups assimilate into the community, Dyer said a cultural gap
between cops and immigrants still remains.

Profiling immigrants

While police departments say they are making an effort to reach out, human
rights groups often say they hear reports that many police departments continue
a long and ugly tradition of abuse against immigrants. Samantha Liapes, director
of Bay Area Police Watch, said that many departments falsely profile young
immigrant men as gang members.

"It's based on nothing more than skin color or country of origin," Liapes said.
Adding that immigrants are the least likely to report abuses either because lack
of access or fear of deportation.

Police maintain one way to avoid such false characterizations are by
strengthening ties with minorities communities.

The Southern California community of El Cajon, near San Diego, has been
nationally recognized for its efforts to reach out to the Kurdish and Chaldean
communities. Stymied in their efforts to investigate reports of increased gang
violence among Kurds, the department set up a series of meetings with Kurdish
and Chaldean teens and community leaders.

Instead of waiting for a problem to happen, El Cajon Police Captain Dan Moody
said, "We are trying to beat it now."

San Jose's efforts

In San Jose, law enforcement officials have focused energy on cultivating ties
with the region's large Latino and Vietnamese populations. The San Jose Police
Department's community services division offers outreach through forums and
school-based programs. The department also airs television programs -- one in
Vietnamese and one in Spanish -- that highlight the police work.

But, they say, they must also focus on building relationships with the growing
numbers of less established immigrants arriving from other parts of the world
that are beginning to settle in the valley. Over the last several years, small
numbers of Bosnians and Albanians have immigrated to the area. There also is a
growing Cambodian population, Sgt. Steve Dixon said.

He said that the department is able to offer translation in as many as 144
languages for non-English-speaking residents who call the 911 emergency lines.

In some instances building better bonds with minority communities include
understanding how police conduct might be deemed offensive -- even when that's
not the intention.

In St. Paul, Minn., officers have been trained in cultural differences through a
series of meetings with leaders in the Hmong and Muslim communities, according
to police spokesman Michael Jordan.

Hmong residents complained that some young men in the community would not look
them in the eye -- a suspicious behavior to some officers -- because it was
culturally disrespectful to do so. In another case, Somali Muslims complained
that some police were touching their heads as they dispersed crowds, a practice
that is offensive to the group.

Sacramento authorities said their outreach efforts will continue even withSoltys
in jail. Sacramento County Sheriff's spokesman, Sgt. James Lewis, said for the
past two years, the department has had an outreach officer working with the
local Russian/Ukrainian community, but the job only became a full-time position
two months before the recent killings. A similar officer, who works with the
area's Hmong community also became a full-time position as of two weeks ago, he
added. In light of the events of the past few weeks, Lewis said the department
will re-evaluate outreach efforts.

Despite the tragic events of the past two weeks, members of the Ukrainian
community are looking toward the future. They are hopeful that more can be done
to strengthen ties between police and their people, and they learned some
lessons during the manhunt, too.

Says Roman Romaso, executive director of the Slavic Community Center Service of
Sacramento, the community must realize when there is trouble: "Police can help."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writers Roxanne Stites and John Woolfolk contributed
to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO; Nikolay Soltys.
PHOTO: KARL MONDON -- CONTRA COSTA TIMES
Boris Kukharskiy hugs Sacramento Sheriff Lou Planas after the arrest of murder
suspect Nikolay Soltys. Kukharskiy's parents and daughter were among those
killed.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 3, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ORGANIZERS SEE IMMIGRANTS AS RICH SOURCE FOR RECRUITMENT

BYLINE: SHAWN NEIDORF, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 786 words


Union organizer Roger R. Rivera lifted signs from the trunk of his Ford Taurus
and arranged boxes of fliers outside the Mi Pueblo market at King and Story
roads in San Jose. Last Wednesday, he and his team of pickets began the 167th
day of urging patrons to shop elsewhere.

"Mi Pueblo Unfair," the signs said. "Fails to meet area standards for wages and
benefits. Please do not patronize this store."

The union's goal is to chase away customers, thereby pressuring the San
Jose-based chain of Latino markets to improve wages and conditions and make it
easier for workers to unionize -- if they want -- without fear of retaliation.
All day Wednesday shoppers took the fliers that decried low pay and alleged bad
working conditions at the markets, but the customers went in anyway -- and came
out with full carts.

Immigrant workers, such as those at Mi Pueblo, are the new focus for unions like
Rivera's United Food and Commercial Workers International Union. Labor unions,
long suspicious of immigrants' impact on union workers, now treat them as a rich
recruiting opportunity.

Local 428, which is behind the Mi Pueblo boycott, said its efforts are cutting
into Mi Pueblo's sales. But Bill Dunham, Mi Pueblo's vice president of finance
and development, says sales are unhurt. Privately held Mi Pueblo doesn't release
sales figures.

Rivera had been trying to rouse worker support for a union at Mi Pueblo since
last year. He couldn't get a majority behind him, which is why he shifted gears
in March to a boycott. He would try to win over the community first.

The way things are going, it would take a long time -- years -- to get the union
into Mi Pueblo, Rivera conceded.

And that's typically how organizing goes, say union experts. Employers have
gotten more sophisticated about defeating union campaigns, and immigrant workers
with limited English are fearful of losing their jobs -- especially those here
illegally.

Historically, unions have been strong in heavy industry such as steel, rubber,
and automobile manufacturing, and those aren't the big businesses in Silicon
Valley. And high-tech businesses, with their high wages, flexible schedules and
worker autonomy have not proved fertile ground for unions, said Jim Tucker,
director of economic development for the San Jose/Silicon Valley Chamber of
Commerce.

Rivera, 40, was a union grocery-store worker before becoming a full-time
organizer in 1997. Last year he began focusing on Mi Pueblo, a chain of six
supermarkets -- three in San Jose, one in Mountain View, two in Modesto.

Rivera said Mi Pueblo is taking advantage of new immigrants' vulnerability. Its
employees earn far less than workers in union shops such as Safeway or
Albertson's, Rivera said; many earn half or less than half what union workers
get paid. Mi Pueblo employees have not gotten paid sick days or holidays, other
than their birthdays.

But the company says it gives a start to immigrants with few skills and no
English -- and more hours than they'd get in a union shop. Mi Pueblo plans to
raise wages this fall, and it is adding five paid holidays. Company vice
president Dunham said changes have nothing to do with the union.

Rivera, however, doesn't believe that. He thinks union pressure is improving
conditions for workers. In addition to supporting the pickets, Rivera helps Mi
Pueblo employees file complaints with the state Labor Commission concerning
issues like unpaid wages. The workers won two such cases, and six are coming up
soon -- one Tuesday, Rivera said.

A tortilla department worker, who declined to give his name, said he agreed with
the union on some things, disagreed on others. He would prefer that the
employees all take one day off to show their strength instead of pursuing the
boycott, but he knows many workers are fearful of losing their jobs. He said he
earned $8 an hour.

A $7-an-hour produce worker in his last days at Mi Pueblo was glad to be leaving
for another grocery store and higher pay. "I hope the union wins," he said.

The Mi Pueblo campaign is Rivera's main professional responsibility, earning him
about $62,000 a year, plus a company car. But the 50- to 60-hour-a-week job has
cost Rivera dearly. In his first year as an organizer, his second marriage
dissolved. And just recently, his girlfriend left him for a man who had more
time.

The breakup got Rivera's attention and rearranged his priorities. "My first
campaign isn't Mi Pueblo anymore. It's my family that I lost." Rivera had grown
close to his girlfriend's young daughter and the woman's younger brother, too.

Still, Rivera doesn't want to quit his organizing job: "I love what I do, and
not a lot of people can say that."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Labor's New Frontier
RELATED STORY: page 1A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
Roger Rivera passes out fliers at Mi Pueblo market in San Jose. His goal is to
unionize the market chain's workers.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 3, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMNESTY ON AGENDA FOR UNIONS, BUSH, FOX IMMIGRATION POLICY INTERESTS ALIGN

BYLINE: JOHN HUBNER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1371 words


Today at noon, Teamster President James P. Hoffa will lead hundreds of Latino
union members back to their jobs in a King City garlic and onion processing
plant, choosing Labor Day to celebrate the end of a 25-month strike.

Two days later, Mexican President Vicente Fox will enter a ballroom at the White
House, where he will be the guest of honor at the first state dinner presented
by the Bush administration.

Worlds apart, these two events are directly related.

President Bush, Fox and Hoffa each will have the same issues on their minds this
week: helping procure green cards for millions of illegal immigrants, and
changing the way people cross the U.S.-Mexico border in the future.

Organized labor, a historic foe of immigration, is now leading the push for an
amnesty program, a topic which will be high on the agenda when Bush and Fox meet
this week.

Hoffa wants immigrants to join unions. Bush wants to win Latino votes. Fox wants
to make it easy for Mexicans to work in the United States.

With labor leaders, Fox and Bush simultaneously focusing on these issues,
Washington has been full of talk about a new immigration policy that would
reshape U.S.-Mexico relations. Several weeks ago the Bush administration raised
the possibility of granting amnesty to roughly 3 million Mexican immigrants. But
as expectations rose, so has opposition from Republicans and anti-immigration
groups.

On Friday, Bush cautioned that the state dinner would produce a "statement of
principles" rather than landmark policy proposals, but he added that he's
committed to presenting an immigration plan "as soon as possible."

Guest-worker program

The specifics remain unclear, but whichever plan emerges could possibly offer
millions of illegal immigrants the chance to legalize their status. Also under
discussion is a guest-worker program intended to make crossing the border safe.

"Bush and Fox recognize that we have an integrated labor market with Mexico,"
said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum in
Washington, D.C. "These two guys have opened up a lot of political room on this
issue, and that could lead to a whole new policy that could transform the
relationship between the two countries."

Labor leaders demanded legal status for undocumented workers at churches across
the country Sunday, including at Christ the King Church in San Jose.

On immigration, trade unions have already gone through a transformation. From
the 1930s on, unions opposed immigration, fearing that foreign workers would
take jobs from American citizens and undermine wages and working conditions.

But two factors have forced unions to examine their historic opposition to
immigration. In recent decades, unions have been hemorrhaging members. In 1983,
20.1 percent of all U.S. workers belonged to a union. By 1999, 13.5 percent were
unionized.

Meanwhile, immigrants were flowing across the border in record numbers and
moving from farm work into sectors of the economy that are easier to unionize.

There are now 8.5 million undocumented immigrants in the United States,
according to a study recently completed by Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the
Urban Institute in Washington, D.C. Passel estimates that about 25 percent,
between 2.2 and 2.3 million, live in California, where most are doing farm work.

But immigrants in ever-increasing numbers are leaving the Central Valley fields
for jobs as janitors in Los Angeles office buildings, as maids in New York City
hotels and as workers in meat and poultry processing plants across the country.
If unions can organize this workforce, it could revitalize the labor movement.

"Immigrants were driving down wages and benefits in so many industries, we
realized we had to organize them to improve conditions for all workers," said
Eliseo Medina, executive vice president of the Service Employees International
Union, the union that was instrumental in ending the AFL-CIO's opposition to
immigration.

"They came here for a better life, they find themselves exploited, they are more
than willing to engage in the struggle," Medina said.

Priority for labor

Hoffa's King City visit underlines the key role that immigrants are coming to
play in unions and helps explain why amnesty has become a priority for the labor
movement.

"We will be organizing with our partners in the religious, labor and immigration
communities to build support for amnesty," said Marion Steeg of the South Bay
Labor Council, which is planning community meetings and rallies.

In an unlikely political twist, the interests of labor have converged with those
of Bush and Fox on immigration.

Bush and Fox are friends who were once governors of states in their respective
countries where immigration and border issues were paramount. Fox wants safe and
orderly passage for the millions of Mexicans who cross the border and a formal
remittance program that would safeguard the billions in earnings they send to
relatives in Mexico. Bush wants to bring Latinos into the Republican Party.

To accomplish that, Bush will have to put as much distance as possible between
Republicans and the 1990s -- when Pat Buchanan was railing against immigration,
and then-California Gov. Pete Wilson was sponsoring Proposition 187, an
initiative that sought to deny education and other social services to
undocumented aliens.

"The decline of the Republican Party in recent times can be dated to Prop. 187,"
said Tom Campbell, a former Republican congressman from California, now a
Stanford law professor.

Although the labor movement is dominated by Democrats, some union leaders say
they are willing to work with a Republican president on immigration.

"If Bush is really serious about dealing with this issue and embracing this
chance for much healthier relations with Mexico, it will have lasting impact in
the Latino community," said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm
Workers union.

Time requirements

How long farmworkers must work to earn green cards will be determined in the
legislative process. Agricultural interests are supporting a bill introduced by
Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, that would require farmworkers to work 150 days a
year for four years.

A bill sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Rep. Howard Berman,
D-Mission Hills, and supported by the UFW, would require farmworkers to work 90
days a year for three years.

Also under consideration is a guest-worker program that would allow new
immigrants from Mexico to apply for a work visa. The program would be modeled on
the H-1B visa program that has brought many high-tech workers to Silicon Valley.

Individual workers -- not their family members -- would be issued three-year
visas that could be renewed for another three. The visas would be portable,
allowing workers to move from job to job. Workers would be allowed to join
unions, and would be protected under federal labor laws. Immigrants would
register each time they cross the border. Their last paycheck would be held in
escrow and mailed back to Mexico.

"The president has to thread the needle," said Sharry of the National
Immigration Forum. "He has to please the stakeholders in labor and in the
immigration community and make it hard for Democrats to up the ante. He also has
to maintain significant support in his own party."

High expectations

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which
seeks to restrict immigration, says big labor lacks the muscle to push through
an amnesty bill.

"Organized labor is less consequential than it once was," Krikorian said.

Krikorian doubts the president can unite the "Libertarian Republicans" who
support immigration and the "socially conservative" Republicans who oppose it.

News that the president is considering some form of amnesty sent hisapproval
ratings among Latinos to 59 percent, an all-time high for a Republican
president.

"It's entirely possible the president has raised expectations so high, he will
not be able to meet them," Krikorian said. "If that happens, he will face
hostility from Hispanics."

CHART:
Undocumented immigrants
[Chart content not taken in the database]

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Labor's New Frontier
Workers' movement reverses stance, looks to embrace immigrants
RELATED STORY: page 1A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: [no credit listed]
Hoffa
Teamsters boss wants to boost sagging union numbers.
PHOTO: JOHN MOORE - ASSOCIATED PRESS
A border patrol agent leads illegal immigrants after detaining them in Texas.
President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox are hoping a new immigration
policy can reshape the nations' relations.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 9, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEMOCRATS SUPPORT EASING IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


After months of increasing interest in immigration and a three-day state visit
by Mexican President Vicente Fox, Democrats asked Saturday that Americans set
aside their fears of change and loosen regulations on immigration.

Rep. Ed Pastor of Arizona used the Democrats' weekly radio address to emphasize
the party's support of a revamped immigration policy in response to the nation's
changing needs.

The focus of the issue should be redirected "to take advantage of, rather than
fear, the economic and cultural evolution of our nation," said Pastor.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 10, 2001 Monday

IMMIGRATION HELPS NARROW GENDER GAP

SECTION: Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 58 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


The gap between the number of men and women in the United States narrowed during
the 1990s as immigration and falling death rates helped boost the male
population, the 2000 census shows.

The new numbers work out to 96.3 men for every 100 women in 2000. The gap has
been closing steadily since 1980, when the male-female ratio was 94.5-to-100.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 13, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TERRORISM RINGS FAMILIAR TO MANY BAY AREA REFUGEES LOCAL IMMIGRANTS WHO FLED
VIOLENCE NOW SEE SIMILAR HORRORS IN AMERICA

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG AND MARIAN LIU, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 598 words


They came to the United States in search of sanctuary. This week, their vision
of America as a haven was shattered.

For many Bay Area immigrants, television images of exploding buildings and
panic-stricken faces were all too familiar. Refugees from countries such as
Vietnam, Iran, Somalia, Ethiopia and Bosnia came to the United States to escape
war and violent government regimes in their native countries.

In America, they considered themselves among the fortunate few who were able to
leave that life behind. But as attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon exposed the vulnerability of the world's largest economic and military
power, many immigrants no longer feel so secure in their new home.

"I thought America was one of the safest places in the world," said Eyerusalem
Kefyanew, a 22-year-old immigrant from Ethiopia. "Now I realize that no place is
safe."

Auxiliadora Duarte, a Nicaraguan immigrant, fled the civil war in her Central
American homeland years ago. "Right now, with what's happening, I don't know
what can be expected. It's total fear for everyone in this country."

In 1998 alone, more than 80,000 refugees and asylum seekers were admitted to the
U.S., according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They came not in
search of economic opportunity but of safety and freedom.

Kefyanew's teenage years were marked by bloody coups, fears of street violence
and devastating drought. Her family often had to shutter themselves in their
Addis Ababa home, with sounds of gun fighting between rebels and military forces
outside their doors. In the early 1990s, her outspoken father was imprisoned for
two years because of his anti-government views.

Five years ago, her father was released from prison and the family fled to the
United States. In San Jose, Kefyanew remembers being struck first by the quiet
streets and fresh air.

"We were so lucky," said Kefyanew, who works as a clerk at San Jose's Ethiopian
Community Center. The center estimates that more than 20,000 Ethiopians live in
the Bay Area and most are refugees who came in the last two decades.

But on Tuesday, many like Kefyanew woke up to a United States that had been
transformed.

"Things are different now. There is no assurance of safety," said 48-year-old
Ethiopian native Birku Melese, who fled the country's then-Communist regime.

In his 14 years in America, Melese has most enjoyed the constancy of life. He
walks out the door of his Santa Clara home, knowing the day won't be interrupted
by outbreaks of violence and unexpected questions from government officials.

But for many refugees, that sense of stability vanished this week.

Sauyuth Tep, a family counselor at Asian Mental Health in Oakland, said clients
have come into her office traumatized by the images in New York and Washington,
D.C., which have triggered flashbacks of conflicts in Southeast Asia.

"We try to escape to somewhere that is better, but now what can we do?" said
Tep, who left Cambodia two decades ago. "Everywhere is the same. There seems to
be no peace anymore."

Still, some refugees said this week's attacks have made them feel closer to the
nation that has housed them from trouble in their homelands.

Vu Pham, who fled Communist Vietnam 23 years ago, said that he is proud to be an
American and feels indebted to the United States. The 60-year-old, who works in
San Lorenzo, treasures his freedom in America.

"I have responsibility to this country," said Pham. "The government will protect
us and everyone will do whatever they can to support the government."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Nuevo Mundo Editor Marina Hinestrosa contributed to this report.
ATTACK ON AMERCIA
SPECIAL REPORT

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 14, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'FRIENDLY' BORDER UNDER NEW SCRUTINY VEHICLES CROSSING BETWEEN U.S. AND CANADA
FACE UNFAMILIAR SEARCHES AND LONG LINES

BYLINE: KRISTI HEIM, Mercury News Seattle Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: BLAINE, Wash.


On the brilliant green lawn of Peace Arch Park, on the western edge of the
longest undefended border in the world, it's hard to tell where the United
States ends and Canada begins.

On a typical sunny day, tourists stroll around, snapping pictures in front of
two national flags made of colorful flowers, and visitors toss frisbees from one
side to the other. In the past, most drivers breezed through the inspection
gates, greeting guards with little more than a friendly hello.

But after Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, border
crossing has become entirely different. Lines stretched for a mile on either
side as drivers were questioned and cars searched by three to four armed border
inspectors. The delays were met with little complaint.

The U.S. Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service remained
on the highest level security alert, officials said. In an unusual step
Thursday, Royal Canadian Mounted Police armed with handguns accompanied Canadian
customs officials at checkpoints.

The Canadian border is likely to become the focus of intense scrutiny.
Government officials suspect five people involved in the hijacking of U.S.
planes Tuesday had passed into Maine from Canada.

But border control officials struggle with limited resources and personnel.

Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine said the Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates that the nation's 104 land ports of entry are staffed at only
49 percent of their optimal level. On Thursday, her request for $25.4 million to
hire 348 border inspectors nationwide was included in a Senate appropriations
bill.

This week's event isn't the first time suspected terrorists would have entered
the country through Canada. Two years ago, Ahmed Ressam drove off acar ferry
from Victoria, British Columbia, into Port Angeles, Wash.

Ressam later said he had planned to bomb the Los Angeles International Airport.

It was only because Ressam panicked, and his nervousness caught the attention of
a U.S. Customs agent, that his plan was foiled. "There was a great deal of
serendipity in that arrest," said Vincent Cannistraro, a former chief of
counterterrorism for the Central Intelligence Agency.

Ressam entered Canada with a false passport in 1994. He was arrested several
times, but he was still able to cross the border almost without incident.

"It's good to have a friendly border like that," said Cannistraro. "You hate to
have it to the point where there are long lines as people are searched, but if
Canadians don't make the security advancements in both the people they allow in
and surveillance of known operatives, that's probably the only alternative."

Locals had become accustomed to simple and quick border crossings at Peace Arch,
where 3.3 million people cross each year. Canadians from British Columbia cross
in search of cheap beer, gas or milk. Washington residents drive north for deals
on furniture and building supplies.

The wait was as long as three hours Thursday, but most drivers said they didn't
mind. "Let them search the car," said Jack Mannering of Pleasant Hill. "This is
the price we're going to be paying in the future."

Some travelers were skeptical that the intense security would continue for long.

Wesley Chen, a real estate agent from Surrey, British Columbia, said, "I used to
pass once a month and they didn't even check your I.D."

But the Ressam case was "an eye opener," and now there is even greater pressure,
said John Bates, deputy chief of the U.S. Border Patrol's Blaine section, which
covers western Washington, Oregon and Alaska.

"We're there to do the best job we possibly can," said Bates. "Can we guarantee
that someone is not going to get through? No."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Attack on America : 32-Page Section
RELATED STORY: page 1A-4A, 6A, 8A-23A, 25A-28A, 32A, 1C, 3C, 5C, 1D, 8E
The Aftermath
Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAN JANISSE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Truck traffic is backed up for about nine miles Thursday along Highway 401
heading into Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Stringent searches slowed traffic along
the U.S.-Canadian border, but vehicles moved freely in both directions.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 14, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIGHTER SECURITY, LONGER WAITS AT MEXICO CROSSING

BYLINE: DANIEL VASQUEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 307 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO


U.S. Customs officials confirmed Thursday that they were searching all cars at
the six crossings along its 2,100-mile border with Mexico as part of increased
security.

At the San Ysidro crossing between California and Tijuana, Mexico, where
thousands pass each day, the increased security and delays of up to five hours
were accepted patiently, although some travelers were edgy.

More uniformed officers stopped more people and asked more questions than the
usual, "Where are you from?" and "What were you doing in Mexico?" Metal
detectors were added for pedestrians and the usual groups loitering on the
Mexico side of the border were absent.

On Wednesday, responding to U.S. requests for tighter security, authorities in
Tijuana said that they had rounded up 48 immigrants from Iraq and elsewhere in
the Middle East. Most of those appeared to be Iraqi Chaldean Christians, a
Catholic group that frequently seeks U.S. asylum, alleging persecution in Iraq.

Each year, some 97 million people pass through the six crossings along the
U.S.-Mexican border, and about 70,000 are apprehended, mostly for smuggling
people or drugs, said Lauren Mack, the spokesperson for the San Diego
Immigration and Naturalization Service office, which oversees all six crossings.

"We have beefed up security because of what happened and the result is traffic
delays for everybody," Mack said. "We hope people understand, but safety is our
first priority."

At San Ysidro, which sees about two-thirds of the cross-border traffic, INS
officials would not discuss details about the security measures, but travelers
who cross regularly said they noticed more questions, baggage checksand
undercover police.

"They are looking at everything; they're checking even small bags that they
would have let go last week," said Jason Page, 20, of San Diego.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Attack on America : 32-Page Section
RELATED STORY: page 1A-4A, 6A, 8A-23A, 25A-28A, 32A, 1C, 3C, 5C, 1D, 8E
The Aftermath
Mercury News Wire Services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 17, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POSTPONED CEREMONIES ARE AT INS TODAY IN S.F.

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO AND STEVEN CHAE column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 362 words


Q
Not only did Tuesday's events change the lives of many Americans, they also
dashed the hopes of many to become U.S. citizens, something we had been eagerly
awaiting. The naturalization ceremony scheduled for that day in San Francisco
was canceled. Because I haven't been able to get to anyone at INS, I am seeking
your help in finding out when will the next ceremony be scheduled. Thanks.
Ravinder Singh
Fremont
A
The Immigration and Naturalization Service's San Francisco office will be
performing informal oath-taking ceremonies hourly, from 8 to 11 a.m., and from 1
to 3 p.m. today. Anyone with an INS invitation for the postponed ceremony is
eligible for the impromptu oaths, says INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery. Simply
take your invitation to the information room at 444 Washington St., and the oath
will be administered. Those who can't make it to the office today will be
rescheduled for a future ceremony. Notices are expected to go out within three
weeks, Rummery says. Applicants interviewed at the Oakland INS office will be
rescheduled for ceremonies to be held there later this week. S.C.
Disaster donations

Readers should be on the alert for scam artists who prey on others' sense of
compassion in the wake of last week's attacks on the World Trade Center and
Pentagon. California Attorney General Bill Lockyer and the National Red Cross
have received reports that scam artists are soliciting donations, purportedly
for victims' families, that end up in their own pockets.

Action Line even received a questionable e-mail asking for donations that would
be distributed to "some charity" in New York. The e-mail stated that any
donations would not be tax deductible.

Investigate any possible charity before donating to it, Lockyer says. The
Mercury News has published the names of a few charitable groups that are
connected to bona fide organizations. They include:

* "September 11 Fund" created by the United Way of New York City. Contributions
may be sent in care of the United Way, 2 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016.

* American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund, Santa Clara Valley Chapter, 2731 N.
First St., San Jose, Calif. 95134.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Action Line

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 18, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SORRY FOR 17-YEAR WAIT IN GRANTING MAN CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: ANDY BRUNO AND STEVE CHAE column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 345 words


Q
In the fall of 1984, I applied for citizenship at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's San Jose office. In November 1985, I passed my
citizenship interview and was told to expect a date for my oath-taking within
the next six months. I never received a date, so I wrote a letter to the office
-- no reply. In brief, I've written countless letters and made many phone calls
over the years. Finally, in July, I was told that I might have to reapply for
citizenship. I have gone through the process and have my records as evidence.
Can you help get my case resolved?
Marius Alejandro
San Jose
A
Good things are worth waiting for, although INS officials admit 17 years is a
bit much. The agency couldn't explain what specifically happened to your case,
other than that it came to a "screeching halt" sometime in 1985. Service
officials have apologized to you for the delay. Unfortunately, you'll need to
have new photos taken, as the ones on file are simply too old and do not conform
to current INS requirements.

However, once those details are taken care of, you can participate in an
oath-taking ceremony Sept. 20, after which you'll officially become a U.S.
citizen. Congratulations. S.C.

Recall: saws

Ryobi is recalling for repair about 125,000 seven-inch circular saws because the
lower blade guard can stick in the open position, posing a risk of serious
injury.

The recalled saws have a blue plastic body with a metal blade guard, and include
model numbers CSB120, CSB130, CSB1308, CSB130K or CSB130JS. The number is
printed on a white label on the motor housing. The saws were sold at home
improvement centers, at hardware stores and in catalogs from October 1998
through July 2001 for between $60 and $140.

Consumers should stop using the saws until repairs have been performed. A free
kit can be obtained by calling Ryobi at (800) 867-9624, or visiting the company
Web site (www.ryobitools.com). Saws with a green dot on the warning label
affixed to the power cord or on the product packaging are not included in this
recall.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ACTION LINE

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 20, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORUM TO DISCUSS IMMIGRATION ISSUES

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 285 words


Immigration is one of the most important issues for Latinos in the Bay Area. And
in the past year, a number of new and modified laws have affected residents who
came from Latin America, or whose loved ones areapplying for visas to enter the
United States.

As part of an ongoing public service effort, Nuevo Mundo, the Spanish-language
weekly of the Mercury News, will host an immigration forum Friday evening. Local
attorneys and other immigration specialists will speak about recent changes in
immigration policy and proposed laws. They also will answer questions from the
audience.

The forum, held in Spanish, will be from 6 to 8 p.m. Friday in the board room of
the East Side Union High School District, 830 N. Capitol Ave., San Jose. For
additional information, please call (408) 920-5602.

La inmigracion es asunto importante para los latinos del Area de la Baha. En el
ultimo ano varias leyes nuevas o modificadas han afectado especialmente a
residentes procedentes de latinoamerica o a seres queridos a la espera de visas
para poder inmigrar a Estados Unidos.

Como parte de nuestros esfuerzos por servir a los lectores latinos, Nuevo Mundo,
el semanario en espanol del Mercury News, realizar un foro de inmigracion el
viernes 21 de septiembre. Abogados locales y otros especialistas en asuntos de
inmigracion hablaran sobre los recientes cambios en las politicas de inmigracion
y los proyectos de ley pendientes. Tambien responderan a preguntas de los
asistentes.

El foro en espanol se realizara el viernes 21 de septiembre de 6 a 8 de la
noche, en la sala de audiencias del Distrito Escolar de East Side, 830 N.
Capitol Ave., San Jose. Para mas informacion llame al (408) 920-5602.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 21, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORO DE INMIGRACION HOY

BYLINE: THE MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 133 words


Immigration is one of the most important issues for Latinos in the Bay Area. And
in the past year, a number of new and modified laws have affected residents who
came from Latin America, or whose loved ones are applying for visas to enter the
United States.

As part of an ongoing public service effort, Nuevo Mundo, the Spanish-language
weekly of the Mercury News, will host an immigration forum today. Local
attorneys and other immigration specialists will speak about recent changes in
immigration policy and proposed laws. They also will answer questions from the
audience.

The forum, held in Spanish, will be from 6 to 8 p.m. today in the board room of
the East Side Union High School District, 830 N. Capitol Ave., San Jose. For
additional information, please call (408) 920-5602.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 22, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SAN DIEGO PRAGMATIC OVER TERROR ARREST NEWS OF HIJACKERS' PRESENCE RATTLED
NERVES

BYLINE: BRANDON BAILEY, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 755 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


It was bad enough when three of the hijackers in last week's terrorist attacks
were shown to have lived here last year. But with the arrestof a fourth man this
week, some residents say they are even more nervous about who might be living in
their midst.

But despite some tensions, many people in this sun-drenched, seaside metropolis
say they are pleased and relieved to have avoided the kind of violent backlash
that has been directed at Muslims and Arab Americans in other parts of the
country.

"I'm afraid there are more of them here," said Tony Corrao, a longtime resident
of suburban Lemon Grove, referring to the possibility of terrorist accomplices.

"But it's not all Middle Easterners who are the problem," added the retired
machinist and son of Italian immigrants, who has flown a U.S. flag outside his
house since last week. "This whole country is full of immigrants. That's who
built this country."

Federal agents have questioned several men, and Thursday removed a number of
items from an apartment in nearby La Mesa. The apartment had been the residence
of a Yemeni immigrant who is reportedly suspected of providing financial support
to three hijackers who lived in San Diego last year. The man was arrested last
Saturday.

Citing unnamed federal sources, the San Diego Union-Tribune has reported that
Omer Bakarbashat was arrested on immigration violations. Local officials of the
FBI and the Immigration and Naturalization Service declined to confirm or deny
the reports that he is being held as a potential material witness in the
hijacking case.

FBI Special Agent Erika Foxworth said federal agents are checking bank
statements and telephone records, and using other means to search for
accomplices of the three hijackers who are believed to have lived in San Diego
for several months last year. Those three men -- identified by the FBI as Khalid
Al-Midhar, Nawaq Alhamzi and Hani Hanjour -- were on the airliner that crashed
into the Pentagon on Sept. 11 and are the strongest connection between
California and the terrorists responsible.

Local Islamic centers, meanwhile, have reported receiving some threats and
abusive phone calls. And someone set off some firecrackers outside the city's
largest mosque. But civic leaders say there has been no actual violence, which
they credit to a tradition of tolerance and a strong police presence.

Last week, federal agents called one small mosque in Lemon Grove to ask if
anyone there knew any of the suspected hijackers, according to Mohammad Zaher
Tahmass, vice president of the mosque known as Masjid Usman.

The same day, he said, local sheriff's deputies dropped by to see if worshipers
had any concerns or had been harassed by their neighbors.

"They were very helpful, very nice," said Tahmass, who said he didn't know any
of the suspects.

Still, he said, this week's arrest was worrisome. "Since this happened, we
wonder who we cannot trust," Tahmass said.

A similar sentiment was voiced by Debbie Fortner, a next-door neighbor of the
retired college professor who had rented rooms to the suspected hijackers, as
well as to the suspected accomplice.

"Especially now that Omer has been arrested, this hits a little too close to
home," said Fortner, 46.

Though he lived last year with several other men at the La Mesa apartment that
was searched this week, Bakarbashat recently had rented a room in Lemon Grove
from Abdussattar Shaikh, a retired professor at two community colleges and a
respected leader in San Diego's Muslim community.

The FBI says Shaikh is not a suspect in the investigation. In recent days, a
number of civic leaders, including the city's former police chief, have vouched
for Shaikh's integrity.

With a large population of active-duty and retired Navy personnel, San Diego has
a reputation for conservative politics. Some might expect to find a backlash
here, but, in fact, the city generally has welcomed its estimated 35,000
Muslims, said Scott Fulerkson, executive director of San Diego's civilian police
review board.

"It's conservative, but it's also progressive, and it really does embrace
diversity," he said.

"My own family is concerned" that terrorist accomplices may still be living in
the city, said the Rev. Wayne Sanders of Good Samaritan Episcopal Church.

Nonetheless, Sanders joined several dozen other local clergy members in ashow of
support Friday at San Diego's largest mosque, presenting worshipers with a
banner that said, "We are one with our Muslim brothers and sisters."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ATTACK ON AMERICA

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 22, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR FACING COCAINE CHARGES

BYLINE: From Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


An immigration inspector was arrested on charges he conspired to help smuggle
1,033 pounds of cocaine into the United States, authorities said Friday.

Clark Anthony Miller, 42, was arrested by Customs Service agents at his home in
Calexico, where he worked as an inspector at the U.S.-Mexico border crossing.

In an indictment filed in U.S. District Court, authorities allege Miller was
part of a conspiracy to smuggle cocaine by waving a 1996 Buick Regal carrying
the drug through his inspection lane in May 2000.

Authorities seized the cocaine in the United States, but the prosecutor in the
case, Roopal Shah, declined to provide details about the driver. Customs
spokesman Vince Bond said the investigation is continuing and further arrests
were expected.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 22, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN-BORN AMERICANS SHARE IN PAIN, URGE TO GIVE

BYLINE: TRUONG PHUOC KHANH, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 748 words


This week, many foreign-born in America stopped feeling like hyphenated
Americans. Their adopted country had been attacked, and their fellow countrymen
were in pain. They -- immigrants from other lands -- shed real tears.

And after the crying, came the giving.

Susie Swen sat down and wrote a check to the American Red Cross.

"I don't feel like I owe this country anything," said the Taiwan-born woman. "I
just feel like this is my country and I need to give."

Dana Hanh Nguyen couldn't bear to continue with her wedding planning. The
29-year-old marketer sent out mass e-mails to Vietnamese professionals in
Silicon Valley for a fundraiser she organized Friday night in San Jose.

And Hersh Mehta will tell the 1,500 theater patrons gathered for an Indian play
in Hayward on Sunday night to stop by the Red Cross booth during intermission.
His company, Performing Arts International, will start the fundraising efforts
with a $2,500 check.

"There is an enormous amount of efforts on the part of all ethnic communities
across the country, the likes of which we haven't seen before," said Kailash
Joshi, president of the IndUS Entrepreneurs, the Santa Clara-based business
group known as TiE. "I've been here 38 years. I don't think the community has
mobilized this fast and this strong in recent history," Joshi said. "It's in
every corner of the United States, with the same intensity."

Events planned

The American India Foundation, backed by dozens of Indian-American organizations
and businesses in the Bay Area, will hold a prayer vigil and fundraiser from 5
to 7 p.m. Sunday at Plaza de Cesar Chavez in San Jose. Leaders from five
religions will lead a collective prayer. The foundation hopes to raise $1
million for victims' families.

And this weekend, Chinese for Christ Church of San Jose expects to top the
$7,500 its 300-member congregation raised last week, said Pastor Job Lee.

"No matter whether we are first-generation immigrants or second-generation, once
we chose to live in this country, we feel it's our home, too," Lee said. "So if
the country has a big tragedy, that is our tragedy, too."

Fundraising efforts generated from within ethnic communities tend to be very
successful, said Janine Sauer, chief development officer for the Santa Clara
Valley Chapter of the American Red Cross.

"They speak the language and have built trust in their people," Sauer said.

At least three Vietnamese and Vietnamese-American groups have raised funds for
the Red Cross, which expects to receive two $100,000 checks this weekend from
the Vietnamese emigre community.

"They just called and said, 'Can you come? We'll present you a check,' " Sauer
said. "We have had a very significant outpouring from the community in general,
but I've personally fielded a lot of calls from all ethnicities."

'From my heart'

Harpreet Chadha came to the United States from India three years ago; he's done
very well for himself, he said. Chadha is making time in his busy schedule,
between business flights across the country, to help coordinate Sunday's event
by the American India Foundation.

"If this country gives us a chance by adopting us, now is the time to show what
we can do for our new motherland," said Chadha, a New York Life insurance agent
in San Jose. "This is from my heart."

Tran Dinh Truong wrote the Red Cross a $2 million check the day after the
attack. He said he did it to share in the pain.

Truong, 69, who emigrated from Vietnam in 1975 with nothing, today owns Hotel
Lafayette in Buffalo, N.Y., and Hotel Carter in New York City. This past week,
he has been helping the rescue and recovery efforts, clearing debris as workers
cleared bodies.

Nina Pevzner, a Jew from Russia, doesn't have $2 million to give. But she will
give what she can.

She has two checks going out, one for the Red Cross and the other directly to
New York.

"There is no person in the world who wouldn't be touched by such a tragedy,"
said Pevzner, a credit analyst who lives in Cupertino.

Last week, Swen wanted to take her two young girls with her and give blood. But
she's waiting because she heard type O blood was needed most, and she and her
children are type AB.

Swen, who has called America home since 1978, gasped in horror like everyone
else watching the Sept. 11 air assaults.

"The day the tragedy happened, it's like it happened to me," she said. "It's not
an obligation to give back. I just feel like I have to give."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ATTACK ON AMERCIA
SPECIAL REPORT
LOCAL GROUPS RAISE FUNDS
Here is a sampling of the many local ethnic groups that are raising money for
victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.
American India Foundation: Send donations, payable to "AIF -- September 11
Fund," to AIF, 647 E. Calaveras Blvd., Milpitas, Calif. 95035.
Bay Chinese 911 Relief Fund: Donations payable to American Red Cross, Bay
Chinese 911 Relief Fund c: o Bridge Bank of Silicon Valley, 2120 El Camino Real,
Santa Clara, Calif. 95050.
Lebanese American Association: Send donations to: LAA Special Relief Fund, Box
4464, Burlingame, Calif. 94010.
San Jose Cambodian Buddhist Society: Donations payable to American Red Cross,
San Jose Cambodian Buddhist Society, 840 Mervyn Way, San Jose, Calif. 95127.
Federation of Vietnamese Americans of Northern California: Donations payable to
American Red Cross, Federation of Vietnamese Americans of Northern California,
2268 Quimby Road Suite E, San Jose, Calif. 95122.
Vietnamese American Community of Northern California: Donations payable to
American Red Cross, Vietnamese American Community of Northern California, 1659
N. Capitol Ave. Suite 322, San Jose, Calif. 95132.
Source: Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Dana Hanh Nguyen loads red, white and blue balloons onto a truck Friday in
preparation for her fundraiser that night.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Dana Hanh Nguyen on Friday loads onto a truck the posters she designed for the
fundraiser she planned for that night. Money raised at the event will go to
victims in last week's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington D.C.
[Photograph did not run in Morning Final edition]

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 25, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL WTC WORKERS MAY BE OVERLOOKED RELATIVES OFTEN KEEP QUIET OUT OF
IMMIGRATION FEARS

BYLINE: FRANCES ROBLES, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


An anguished call came to New York City Councilman Guillermo Linares' office two
days after the World Trade Center attack. Between heaving sobs, a woman
explained that her brother, a janitor, was missing.

But the illegal Dominican immigrant had worked under someone else's name -- and
that person was on the missing lists.

"She was crying, hysterical," said Linares' chief of staff, Mimi Minier. "She
was afraid and didn't know what to do. She kept saying, 'He's got papers, but
that's not him. I don't know what's going to happen to that other person,
because that's the one they're going to think is dead.' "

The caller told how her brother had hopped a raft from the Dominican Republic to
Puerto Rico. Sept. 11, she said, was his first day at work in America.

The woman promised to come to Linares' office, but never appeared.

Countless newcomers

Those who work closely with immigrants fear that perhaps countless newcomers who
lived alone and worked illegally or under aliases have disappeared, too.

As New York and federal officials compile a mounting list of people who vanished
when the Twin Towers came down, immigrant advocates are taking their own
inventory: the busboys, delivery workers, restaurant staff and window washers
they fear no one will notice have disappeared.

"These people will die like they lived: invisibly," said Brother Joel Magallan,
with the Tepeyac Association, a New York social service agency for Mexicans.

Magallan is working closely with restaurant workers and labor unions to tally
the missing. Last week, he met with various area business owners. But in a city
where many immigrants do not appear on payrolls, employers were hesitant to
admit they illegally paid people off the books.

Immigration status data

Responding to fears that some missing undocumented workers would go unreported
because their families feared the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
officials announced Friday that they will not seek immigration status
information that is collected during the rescue effort.

Rosa Vargas, a former cashier at Akbar's Greenhouse Cafe, a restaurant in the
mall under the towers, has been working the phones and Internet for nearly two
weeks trying to track down her former co-workers. From her home in Puebla,
Mexico, she has accounted for everyone except one, a delivery man named
"Humberto."

"I will tell you something: The families who live in New York or anywhere in the
U.S. will not come forward," Vargas said. "I dare to report it, because I'm back
in Mexico. But if I was still living and working in New York, I'd do the same
thing -- I'd keep quiet, and nobody would report Humberto missing."

The Mexican consulate in New York City said 16 of its nationals are among the
missing. The number seems low to those who worked in the area.

"There are hundreds of us down there," said Luis, a fish delivery man who
narrowly escaped. "Mexicans are afraid. We give fake names most of the time, and
a different last name a lot of the time. Those people will be lost. No one will
ever know what happened."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ATTACK ON AMERICA

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 28, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COLLEGES DECRY PLAN TO CURB VISAS EDUCATORS DOUBT EFFECTIVENESS, FEAR LOSS OF
FOREIGN-STUDENT REVENUES

BYLINE: JOHN WOOLFOLK, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 756 words


As this month's terrorist attacks renew calls for a crackdown on student visas,
colleges fear that new proposals will discourage applicants and threaten a $12.3
billion international education business.

Educators agree that student visas need better oversight. But they say proposals
to suspend or delay new visas would drive away international students that many
colleges depend on for revenue while doing little to keep out terrorists.

"It's very myopic, and it isn't really going to solve the problem," said George
Beers, who handles foreign-student recruitment at Foothill and DeAnza community
colleges. "There are so many other ways people can get into the United States."

Feinstein proposal

The report that one of the 19 alleged hijackers involved in the Sept. 11 attack
entered the United States on a student visa prompted Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., to call for a six-month moratorium on new student visas.

Feinstein's proposed bill would provide $32.3 million for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to track foreign students.

Sen. Christopher "Kit" Bond, R-Mo., is calling for a 30-day waiting period for
all visa applicants and tamperproof documentation.

"We have lost control of our borders, and it's clear the public very much wants
this to change," said Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies. The
group, which favors tighter border controls, commissioned a post-attack poll
showing support for a crackdown.

But turning such sentiment into effective policy has proved vexing for a country
committed to global commerce and sharing porous borders totaling nearly 2,000
miles along Mexico and 5,500 miles with Canada.

Congress toughened immigration laws in 1996 after the first World Trade Center
bombing three years earlier, in which one of the suspects was living in the
country on an expired student visa.

A provision for a computerized system to track foreign students was opposed by
colleges and stalled in disputes over funding.

The Association of International Educators dropped its opposition after the
latest attacks, but remains concerned about the system's fairness and
effectiveness.

The 500,000 foreign students entering the United States are just a fraction of
the 30 million non-immigrants granted visas each year. The vast majority, more
than 23 million, enter on tourist visas, the INS said. In California, there are
100,000 foreign students out of 4.2 million non-immigrant visas.

There are an estimated 6 million foreigners living in the country on expired
visas of various sorts, 2.5 million of them in California, said INS official
Sharon Rummery.

Two other suspects in the hijackings entered on tourist visas. "You can abuse
any sort of visa," Rummery said.

Most foreign students come from China, Japan and India. But students aren't
excluded from nations considered havens for anti-U.S. terrorists. Last year,
there were 112 from Iraq and 110 from Afghanistan.

Colleges court foreign students because they pay higher tuition, create demand
for high-level courses and foster a cosmopolitan environment.

California's 66,000 foreign students, more than any other state, contribute an
estimated $1.6 billion to the economy. A moratorium could devastate many
colleges.

Tuition from the nearly 2,000 foreign students at Foothill and DeAnza colleges
accounts for 10 percent of the schools' budgets, Beers said.

"That $10 million revenue is hundreds of jobs," Beers said. "Even a six-month
moratorium would significantly reduce the number of those students for several
years."

The University of California is seeking a meeting with Feinstein, said
public-information officer Charles McFadden, but is not in a position to say how
it would be affected. In fall 2000, the UC system had 8,531 non-resident
international students.

Effect on Stanford

It's unclear how a crackdown would affect Stanford University, where there are
3,200 international students, 19 percent of the entire student population, said
John Pearson, director of the Bechtel International Center.

Most of Stanford's international students have already arrived. Problems would
arise if the moratorium starts next spring, when most students submit their
immigration paperwork.

Stanford's foreign students said cumbersome background checks would discourage
many from coming.

"If they really want to treat immigrants like that, they will lose the best
students," said Lekan Owodunni, a Nigerian graduate student studying aeronautics
and astronautics.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News staff writer Kim Vo contributed to this story.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 6, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGN STUDENTS BACK VISA SECURITY SOME COLLEGE OFFICIALS FEAR PLANS MAY DETER
APPLICANTS

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY AND BECKY BARTINDALE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1273 words


A month ago, Raul Gamboa might have fretted that Congress' desire to crack down
on student visas and track foreign students threatened his civil liberties.

But like many international students these days, Gamboa is suddenly willing to
sacrifice personal privacy for the sake of national security. Along with
university and immigration officials across the nation, Gamboa agrees that the
U.S. government's system of monitoring foreign students is so lax and outdated
that it needs to be reformed.

"The world is not the same as it was a month ago," said Gamboa, 21, a native of
Spain who is studying biochemistry at the University of California-Berkeley.
"America is not the same paradise."

Sen. Dianne Feinstein said last week that she wants immigration officials to
speed up development of a tracking system that would allow federal authorities
to tap into a national database and check the status of any foreign student.

Worried about reports that some of the terrorists may have entered the country
on student visas, the San Francisco Democrat also wants colleges to make regular
reports to immigration officials about which courses students are taking and
whether they have had disciplinary problems.

Feinstein had also called for a six-month moratorium on all student visas, but
she dropped that Friday after meeting with university groups and immigration
officials.

Administrators worry that the proposals would slow down the visa process, deter
foreign students from applying and devastate the country's colleges and
universities.

But of the nearly two dozen international students interviewed at localcampuses,
none objected to the idea of an electronic tracking system, though they worried
such a system could be abused. All said they would accept closer scrutiny of
their movements if it made the nation safer.

"It's all about giving personal information to people, and I do that already,"
said UC-Berkeley student Ralf Steinhauser, 23, of Germany.

"I don't care if the FBI knows where I am or what I'm studying."

Data already available

In theory, the Immigration and Naturalization Service already keeps tabs on
foreign students. Colleges regularly compile personal and academic information
about international students, and the INS can see it any time.

Some colleges report important changes to the INS, such as when a student
switches schools. But most other key pieces of information, such as when a
student drops out or stops taking a full load of courses, have not been
regularly collected by the INS since 1988, college administrators said.

Only occasionally do immigration officials request records of individual
students.

"For a long time we haven't been asked for any reporting," said Helen Stevens,
director of international programs and services at San Jose State University.

Another big gap in the system is that the INS knows when a prospective student
enters the country but may not know for months if the student enrolls in
college.

One local administrator said it can take up to nine months for the INS to notify
a college when a foreign student has entered the country.

The new electronic tracking system -- in the works since the mid-1990s -- would
change all that, creating a central database accessible by colleges, immigration
officials, the State Department and the FBI. Any new information about the
student -- a change in major, number of college credits completed -- would be
entered into the database. Fingerprints and photographs would also be included
in student files.

The new system could also cut down on visa fraud by placing an encrypted
bar-code on the I-20 form, the document used by foreigners to prove they've been
admitted to a U.S. college.

"You want to have as much forewarning as possible if there is a person with
suspicious activity," said Sanjeev Kale, president of a software company that
has consulted with INS officials and colleges. "The current system offers none
of that."

Student complaints

Some foreign students complained they are being scapegoated for a much larger
problem, because student visas account for only about 2 percent of
non-immigrants admitted to the country every year.

"It's stereotyping," said Silvio Brugada, a San Jose State computer engineering
student from Paraguay. "It's offensive."

Several said the focus on students is a quick fix to help make people feel safe.
But they questioned whether it would make a difference.

Students said the proposed changes alone would not keep terrorists out, because
those intent on harm would find a way to enter the country legally.

A surprising number of students said they had no objections to being part of a
large database accessible to law enforcement agencies.

"It doesn't change anything for us," said Matthieu Ferreira, 21, a San Francisco
State University student from France. "I already assumed they were using that
information that I gave them. As long as I'm clean with my conscience, I have
nothing to be afraid of."

Virtually every college administrator supports an electronic student visa system
-- in concept. But they question whether the INS has the expertise to manage it.

"If it was UPS or FedEx running the show, I'd probably be pretty sanguine,
because they don't seem to lose my packages," said Ray Wallace, director of the
Center for International Students at California State University-Hayward.

Wallace worries that the new system will become a bureaucratic nightmare.

But if students have to contend with problems such as lost records or
incorrectly entered information, Wallace said, "people will say the system isso
screwed up, I'm just going to college in Australia."

Important role

International students play an important role at American universities, where
they make up a large percentage of graduate enrollments and are engaged in
cutting-edge research.

At Stanford University, for example, roughly one of every three graduate
students is from another country.

Prohibiting or discouraging students from entering the country "could do a lot
of damage," said Terry Shoup, dean of the College of Engineering at Santa Clara
University, where international students make up 40 percent of the graduate
program.

Educators worry that another Feinstein proposal, for comprehensive background
checks before a visa is granted, would create such delays that foreign students
would go elsewhere.

"A long, drawn-out process would make it effectively impossible to get a visa
before the semester starts," said Victor Johnson, associate executive director
of public policy for NAFSA, an association of international educators.

But San Francisco State student Siritorn Sattapant, 22, of Thailand said
sometimes security concerns must take precedence.

"It's good for the country," she said. "Maybe it will be less good for me. But
if you don't disturb us too much, I think it'll be OK."

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
FOREIGN STUDENTS
California universities depend heavily on foreign students to fill many of their

 graduate programs. The undergraduate population at University of
California-Berkeley is 3.7 percent foreign, while the overall graduate
population is 19.6 percent foreign. At Stanford, the undergraduate population is

 4.7 percent foreign, and the graduate population is 31.8 percent.
STANFORD PROGRAM          % FOREIGN
Earth Sciences                   40
Engineering,                   38.3
Business                       31.8
UC-BERKELEY PROGRAM       % FOREIGN
Engineering                    42.4
Information management         37.9
Business                       27.6
Source: UC-Berkeley, Stanford

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Chart;
PHOTO: Ralf Steinhauser, a University of California-Berkeley student from
Germany, said, "I don't care if the FBI knows where I am or what I'm studying."
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Raul Gamboa, 21, an international student from Spain studying at UC-Berkeley,
says he'd be willing to sacrifice personal privacy for the sake of national
security.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 9, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VALLEY HELPS SELL DIVERSITY TO EUROPEANS

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 724 words


My choice was clear last week: Stay home and wait for Osama bin Laden's capture,
or hop on a plane for Budapest. I decided to go. You see, I'm a sucker for a
pretty face, and so I couldn't resist the Queen of the Danube.

Oh, yes, I had another reason for ignoring the travel warnings -- to explain the
relatively peaceful racial and ethnic climate we enjoy in San Jose and Silicon
Valley to European and American legislators assembled for a conference on
minorities and global migration.

"Europeans are embroiled in a heated debate about controlling immigration to
their countries and the ensuing cultural assimilation," said Alfons Schops,
European director of the State Legislators Leadership Foundation.

If anything, the atrocities of Sept. 11 added timeliness to our theme. The
terrorists held legitimate immigration visas. Skinheads in Europe and bigots in
America were taking their anger out on innocent Arabs and Muslims and even
people who simply appeared to be Arabs or Muslims. Selling immigration
anddiversity has never been easy, but it just got harder.

I began with a hopeful story about an Afghan restaurant near my home and two
others I'd heard about back East. They might have been vandalized in the past
after terrorist attacks, but they started doing great business this time around.
Why?

Call me Pollyanna if you will, but I think the terrorist attack ironically is
improving America's climate of cultural acceptance more than destroying it. And
that climate already was doing well, thanks.

I told my audience that we don't have a majority racial or ethnic group in Santa
Clara County anymore. Less than half of us are white. About one-fourth of us are
Asian; another fourth are Latino. This jumble includes about 177 ethnicities or
nationalities. One-third of us weren't born in America.

Eighty-five percent of us in this valley don't feel pressed to give up our
ethnic identity; most of us think race relations are good and will even improve
as whites become a smaller portion of the population.

By now, some of the Europeans were looking at me as if I were from Mars. They
could not imagine a truly multicultural Germany or multilingual France or
multiethnic Hungary. American diversity simply can't work in European nations
that draw their identity from language and ethnicity, and that's that.

But I kept going.

I said our relatively healthy economy keeps a lot of racial animosity below the
surface. So do the great distances between ethnic neighborhoods. But there's
more at work than these two popular explanations.

I believe that the rules of cultural assimilation have changed profoundly since
World War II and the Civil Rights era: To be a "true American," nobody has to
give up his ethnicity or mother tongue and conform to a single culture and speak
only English in public.

We have come to a racial detente or we are developing a healthy separation
between culture and state. Whatever, it's OK now to be Mexican-American,
Chinese-American or Arab American. That isn't a threat to our republic.

Afterward, some of the Europeans expressed to me their wish for an
American-style diversity.

Marie Therese Huppertz, a corporate lawyer for Microsoft Europe, was born and
raised in Germany but now lives in Belgium, a smaller nation with a tradition of
bilingualism and dual-nationality.

"I won't move back to Germany because of its one ethnicity," she said. "Belgium
is much more relaxed about culture and language."

As the nations of Europe merge economically and their populations age, they are
finding that they have to import workers just to maintain standards of living
and productivity. As another conference speaker said, "Management of diversity
will become a big task" for Europe in the near future.

I'm sure the Europeans, being Europeans, will want to micromanage their
diversity and reject the American way of just letting it happen. But diversity
will come because prosperity in the modern world requires mobility and flexible
borders, and because labor always follows the flow of cash.

There is a lesson here for terrorists, too. There is no longer one America. We
are a moving target, a work in progress, and a network of cultures, religions
and principles. We are a beautifully confounding idea that shouldn't work but
does. Ancient stupidities won't defeat us.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 17, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SECRET 'JUSTICE' FEDERAL AUTHORITIES ARE HOLDING HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE IN THE
TERRORIST INVESTIGATION;
BUT ON WHAT CHARGES?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 384 words


FEDERAL authorities have detained 700 people in the investigation of Sept. 11's
suicide hijackings. It will take such aggressive and thorough police work to
find any co-conspirators living among us.

But the Justice Department has told the public little about who the detainees
are, the charges against them and their treatment while in custody.Instead,
their stories are filtering out on the news pages.

There's the account of a Saudi physician living in Texas. Wrongly labeling him a
"material witness," the FBI incarcerated Dr. Al-Badr Al-Hazmi for 13 days in
jails from San Antonio to Brooklyn. Al-Hazmi's lawyer says she didn't even know
where her client was on some days.

Al-Hazmi isn't unique. Immigration authorities in Illinois, Indiana and
Wisconsin didn't let detainees meet with lawyers for a week.

Hearings are being closed. Court and arrest records are being sealed. None of
this is supposed to happen in our criminal justice system. Openness helps ensure
accountability and a fair process.

Expect more secrecy. The anti-terrorism bill rushing through Congress would give
federal authorities more power to jail people with reduced judicial and public
oversight. The legislation allows the government to hold suspects for seven days
without explanation.

After a week, the officials would have to release people or charge them with
criminal or immigration violations. Immigration agents already can deem someone
"out of visa status" for small misdeeds, such as foreign students taking
part-time jobs. Attorney General John Ashcroft has failed to reveal how many
people have been detained for weeks and weeks on minor infractions.

Authorities also are holding an unknown number of people under the federal
material witness law. A material witness is someone who can provide valuable
testimony but might flee if released. The person has rights to legal counsel and
a bond hearing. But attorneys say they've been denied adequate access to clients
and court documents..

Federal agents already have considerable power to hold people. The stories of
released detainees and their attorneys suggest that it isn't being used
properly. Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert Mueller could refute that by
providing details about the hundreds of people in jail cells across the country.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 22, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS MORE LIKELY TO BE INJURED ON THE JOB THAN U.S.-BORN WORKERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


Immigrants are at greater risk than the U.S.-born of dying in a job-related
accident, in part because they take dangerous jobs with little or no training,
the Orange County Register reported Sunday.

Nationally, the number of immigrants killed at work rose to 849 in 2000, a17
percent increase from the amount in 1996, while the overall death toll from such
accidents fell 3 percent. Immigrants made up 14 percent of the U.S. workforce in
2000.

In 2000, the rate of workplace deaths was five per 100,000 workers for
immigrants but only 4.3 for U.S.-born employees.

In California, the number of job-related deaths involving immigrants from 1995
to 2000 rose 17 percent. The overall rate dropped 14 percent.

Immigrants often take more dangerous jobs without proper training, encounter
language barriers and work for employers who sometimes fail to take safety
precautions, the Register concluded.

"A lot of them are illegal; they would take any job," said Jordan Barab, who
used to work for the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. "They
do not know their rights, and even if they knew them and knew how to exercise
them, they might be afraid to."

A University of California-Los Angeles survey of 67 migrant workers found that
only two had heard of California's worker protection agency, Cal-OSHA.

Some workers deliberately avoid reporting accidents.

"Sometimes their papers are not good, and they don't want to call attention to
themselves," said Sam Pfister, who managed Omni-Pak Industries, a Garden Grove
plant that employed many Latino immigrants.

Raul Pineda died on his 31st birthday last year when he fell into a vat of
175-degree chemicals at an Anaheim metal-plating shop. He had stepped out onto a
5-inch-wide ledge between vats.

The company's safety manual warned workers against stepping onto the tanks, but
it was written in English, which Pineda didn't understand.

The company, Ideal Anodizing, was fined $7,000 by Cal-OSHA for failing to
properly train workers. The company has translated its training manuals and
warning signs into Spanish.

In September, the family settled a worker's compensation case for $175,000,
minus legal fees and payments already doled out.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 26, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SCHOOL BOARD DEBATES CITIZENSHIP PROPOSAL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: ANAHEIM


A school board member who once advocated billing Mexico for the cost of
educating illegal immigrants now wants to require students to prove citizenship
or be handed over to immigration officials.

More than 200 people packed the Anaheim Union High School District offices where
the Board of Education was to consider member Harald Martin's proposal Thursday
night. As police officers and private security guards looked on, the meeting was
broadcast outside to those who couldn't squeeze into the board room.

As they waited for the board to raise the issue, several people denounced it as
a racist measure targeting Hispanics, who make up 50 percent of the district's
student population.

"It smacks of racial profiling. It divides the community," said Navito Lopez,
executive director of Hermandad Mexicana Nacional.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 28, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS VOWS TO SPEED RELEASE OF EX-SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: NEW JERSEY


Immigration and Naturalization Service officials told representatives of
Paterson-area Muslim communities that they would try to speed up the release of
people arrested after the terrorist attacks once the FBI clears them of
wrongdoing.

The meeting Friday followed the death of Muhammed Rafiq Butt, who was arrested
Sept. 19 as part of the FBI's investigation into the terrorist attacks and
cleared of involvement.

An autopsy determined the 55-year-old Pakistani died Tuesday of heart problems
as he waited for deportation documents to be cleared up. Muslim leaders said 31
people are still detained in New Jersey.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSH SEEKS STRICT RULES TO CURB VISA ABUSE;
FEDERAL TASK FORCE TO TIGHTEN IMMIGRATION POLICY

BYLINE: RON HUTCHESON, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 626 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As part of his effort to root out terrorists and their supporters, President
Bush announced a crackdown Monday on foreign visitors who abuse their visas.

Bush announced the creation of a federal task force to propose ways to tighten
immigration policy. The interagency group, to be headed by Attorney General John
Ashcroft, will look for ways to screen potential terrorists and monitor visitors
who violate the terms of their visas.

The Bush plan calls for more immigration and customs agents to be assigned to
anti-terrorism, directs federal agencies to share information about suspected
terrorists, and orders the State Department to share more information with
Canada and Mexico to help nab terrorists before they enter the United States.

More than 7 million foreign visitors enter the country on visas each year, and
about 3 million of them overstay their entry permits. About 500,000 foreigners
are admitted on student visas.

At least 13 of the 19 foreigners involved in the Sept. 11 attacks entered the
country legally on tourist, business or student visas. At least three had
overstayed their visas.

"Never did we realize that people would take advantage of our generosity to the
extent they have," Bush told reporters at the White House. "The vast majority of
people who have come to America are really good, decent people, people that
we're proud to have here. There are some who are evil. Our job now is to find
the evil ones."

The administration's effort to tighten immigration policy is another example of
the dramatic change in the political climate as a result of the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. Before the assaults, Bush was prodding Congress toease
immigration restrictions, especially with regard to Mexico. Now his proposal for
a new guest-worker program has been shoved aside by the war on terrorism.

As White House press secretary Ari Fleischer put it on Monday: "No, it's not
dead. But . . . it has not moved at the pace the president had hoped it would
move, and I think that's understandable."

Bush instructed immigration officials to be more diligent in tracking visa
holders and deporting violators.

"We're going to start asking a lot of questions that heretofore have not been
asked," he said. "We're going to make sure that when somebody comes, we
understand their intended purpose and that they fulfill the purpose on their
application."

One leading anti-immigration activist dismissed the White House initiative as a
halfway measure that falls far short of Bush's declared goal.

"The system is dysfunctional at every point," said Dan Stein, executive director
of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, an organization that favors
more restrictive laws. "All the information in the world isn't going to help if
you don't have the personnel and resources to enforce the law. They don't seem
to realize that curtailing immigration itself is a vital part of the equation."

Supporters of Bush's initiative said it will require a substantial investment in
technology and personnel to track visa holders. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service has about 2,000 agents to monitor millions of foreign
visitors.

"We're basically starting at ground zero, with a long way to go up," said Angela
Kelley, deputy director of National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration
organization. "If there's anybody who can pull it off, it's George Bush. He has
extraordinary support right now. I really do think people will fall in line
behind the president."

Bush instructed the new foreign terrorist tracking task force to "develop a
budgetary plan to support this effort." The task force will take immediate steps
to tighten current policy and recommend other changes that require congressional
action.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
President Bush, at the White House, tells reporters Monday about his first
meeting with the Homeland Security Council. He is joined by Secretary of State
Colin Powell, left, and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. Bush wants to tighten
immigration policy to reduce misuse of foreign visas.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 2, 2001 Friday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS DUPED BY DRIVER'S LICENSE SCAM;
A FREMONT MAN WHO IMMIGRATED RECENTLY FROM HONG KONG SAID HE PAID $600 AT AN
OAKLAND CHINATOWN SHOP FOR WHAT TURNED OUT TO BE A WORTHLESS DOCUMENT THAT JUST
GOT HIM INTO MORE TROUBLE.

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 667 words


Jun Zhao was duped into buying a pricey "international driver's license" that he
didn't need.

Then things got worse for the recent Hong Kong arrival.

The license wasn't valid, and his 1989 white Toyota was towed for 30 days at a
cost of at least $2,000 in storage fees and fines. He told police he purchased
the license for $600 at an Oakland Chinatown shop.

Zhao was the victim of a scam that has fooled drivers for decades, authorities
say. Immigrants unfamiliar with U.S. driving laws buy expensive licenses
thinking they allow them to drive here without taking a driving test or written
exam. Others know better, but hope officers won't notice.

"Even though they may be useful, you absolutely do not need one," said Steve
Haskins, spokesman for the Department of Motor Vehicles. "But there are millions
of suckers out there. And sadly, people who are here illegally think they need
some kind of documents and don't know what they really need. They're being
scammed by folks who are selling them a product that does them absolutely no
good."

What foreigners need is a valid license from their home country, or if they are
in the United States for an extended period, a valid license from the state
where they are residing.

There are valid international driver's licenses, but here they can only be
obtained from the American Automobile Association and the American Automobile
Touring Alliance, and they cost only $10. They can act as English-language
translations of the valid license they carry from their home country.

Fremont police this week warned consumers to be wary of the countless Internet
sites and small shops selling international licenses and permits. Fremont police
handled four other such cases within the last month.

Licenses sold at other places are not illegal if the sellers don't make false
promises, but in the United States they are unnecessary, authorities say.
Fremont police spokesman Bill Veteran compared it to paying money for a card
from Chuck E. Cheese, verifying the owner loves pizza.

Fraud exists worldwide.

Other cases

Three hundred fake international licenses were confiscated from undocumented
immigrants last fall in Stamford, Conn. The state of New Jersey sued a Los
Angeles man in January for promising immigrants the licenses were "100 percent
valid." And this summer, Japanese and South Korean operators were reported to
have sold forgeries of official international driver's licenses for as much as
$2,500.

Foster City police recently cited a foreign-speaking motorist for driving with
an international license he said he paid $200 for.

"He had no idea it was phony," said police dispatcher Gene Leitz. "They really
prey on those who don't speak much English, and it's just easier for them to
send in their money."

But police say other drivers knowingly use the international licenses to skirt
the law. In San Jose, for example, Sgt. Ruben Chavez said he sees about three or
four cases a year involving people with suspended licenses who "think they can
get around it by tricking officers" with the international licenses.

In Zhao's case, because he didn't have a valid Hong Kong license with him,
Fremont officer John Flynn towed his car.

"He doesn't know how to drive here," Flynn said. "We don't want him on the
road."

Web sites

Countless Web sites pop up under the keyword search for "International Driver's
License" or "International Driver's Permit." While many of the companies stress
that the international license is not mandatory, their ads can be confusing.

As marketed on the Web site for a company called International Automobile
Drivers Club, based in Staten Island, N.Y., the international
license"establishes the right for a person to drive in another country."

During a phone call to the company, a woman said the license is necessary to
drive in a foreign country.

When pressed whether the license was just helpful, but not mandatory, she
admitted: "Actually, I don't know."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter Version: page 6B, Morning Final edition
Mercury News staff writer Kellie Schmitt contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 4, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER DILEMMA;
SMART TERRORIST MIGHT FIND A WAY THROUGHT, BUT REFORMS SHOULD AT LEAST START
WITH MORE OFFICERS AT CROSSINGS AND A DATA BASE THAT WOULD ALLOW THE QUICK
IDENTIFICATION OF SUSPICIOUS PEOPLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6P

LENGTH: 482 words


SEPT. 11 revealed how porous the nation's borders are to potential terrorists.

Two of the terrorists who hijacked the airliners appeared on the FBI's watch
list and should have been tracked down. Two with student visas failed to show up
at school and should have been reported. A half-dozen entered using false names
that might have been detected. Several overstayed their visas and could have
been investigated. Two had visa infractions and should have been denied entry.

What went wrong is obvious; what to do about it, if the goal is keeping out
everyone who might do harm, is anything but. With more than 30 million
non-citizens crossing the borders every year, a few determined, smart terrorists
will find inventive ways to slip through. Closing off the borders is impractical
and ill-advised. America derives vitality and prosperity from the flow of
foreign tourists, students and immigrants.

The biggest failure of Sept. 11th was a lack of intelligence -- eyes and ears on
the ground. Any reform should start with adding more officers at border
crossings in Canada and Mexico and more staff to consulates abroad.

There needs to be a central data base, so that suspicious people can be
identified immediately, with information about them fed to the FBI and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The State Department, the FBI and the
INS haven't coordinated efforts, and the FBI hasn't shared information.

Visas should be made forgery-resistant. So should passports from nations in
which America has agreed to waive visa requirements.

Take a large data base, combine it with secure visas and add individuals'
biometric data, like a fingerprint, and you have the logical next step, what
Sens. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and John Kyl, R-Ariz., proposed last week.
Millions of foreigners on tourist, business and student visas would be required
to carry a "SmartVisa" with them and insert them into card readers at border
crossings and at airports.

The system would be an improvement but would not be fool-proof. It also would
more likely catch the Irish bartender who has overstayed his tourist visa and
wanted to fly home for Christmas than it would the potential terrorist with a
clean record. That's the dilemma: A system targeted at terrorists could end up
missing them and lead to the deportment of others.

Feinstein said the intent is not to track the movements of millions of
non-citizens once they're into the country but to keep out the those who
shouldn't be here. Though it is not a national ID, it could be the first step
toward one. Such a proliferation of ID cards and card readers must not occur
without a full national debate.

Feinstein's SmartVisa system would cost billions of dollars and use
still-evolving technology. It's worth experimenting with but not expediting.
Simpler, cheaper, less intrusive steps ought to be considered first.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 8, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SEATTLE SHOP SHUT FOR SUSPECTED TIES TO TERRORISM;
IMMIGRANTS LOSE WAY TO WIRE FUNDS

BYLINE: KRISTI HEIM, Mercury News Seattle Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 460 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE


Abdinasir Nur watched dejectedly from behind a yellow police tape Wednesday as
U.S. Customs agents loaded the contents of his mini market into a shipping
container.

"They don't explain anything," he said. "They just said they are going to
confiscate my merchandise. Who knows what they're going to do with it?"

Nur, 33, arrived at work at 8 a.m. to find federal agents in the midst of a raid
on a money-transfer company that shares the same building as his Muslim foods
store.

Barakat Wire Transfer in southeast Seattle was one of several shops throughout
the country that were shut down Wednesday as part of the Bush administration's
crackdown on the assets of terrorism suspects and businesses that aid them.

The small company in Seattle's ethnically diverse Rainier Valley catered to a
tight-knit community of Somalian refugees who used it to send money home to
their relatives throughout East Africa.

Treasury officials say it is part of Al-Barakaat, a conglomerate based in Dubai,
that they believe has helped fund the Al-Qaida terrorist network, probably
without the knowledge of the immigrants transferring their money through it.

More than a dozen agents detained at least one man for questioning as he opened
the building. The action triggered an all-day protest in the parking lot
outside.

Nur, a tall, soft-spoken man, said he has operated the Maka Mini Market and
Halal Meat in the building for seven years. He said Customs agents handed him a
notice from the Department of the Treasury saying the premises had been sealed
and his property blocked by order of the department's Office of Foreign Assets
Control.

"This is my shop, and the wire-transfer shop is different," he said. "They are
separate businesses."

Many people gathered outside the building said they could not believe Barakat
Wire Transfer was helping support terrorism. They said it provided a service
they desperately need.

Hawa, a petite, middle-aged woman who would give only her first name, wrote her
message on a placard: "My father is 90 years old. I will keep sending him $100.
This has nothing to do with terrorism.

"I'm the only one he has here," she said. "If they say you can't sendmoney, he's
going to starve. I know he will."

Faisal Farah, 25, a Boeing contract employee, said he had used the wire-transfer
company regularly to send money to more than a dozen relatives. "Maybe they
should have named the place Johnson & Johnson -- then it wouldn't raise
suspicion," he said.

"In a country where you have no existing government, you don't have commercial
banks there, you don't have Western Union," he said. Shutting down such informal
money-transfer operations "doesn't make any sense," he said. "You're cutting off
their lifeline."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 8, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PALESTINIAN HELD AFTER ATTACK HEADS HOME;
HE WAS IMPRISONED FOR 43 DAYS AFTER BEING STOPPED AT AIRPORT

BYLINE: KAREN DE SA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 684 words


A Palestinian man was on his way home from the Bay Area on Tuesday, 43 days
after being detained by the FBI while trying to board a flight at San Francisco
International Airport.

Samer Bishawi headed for Nablus in the West Bank, via Amsterdam and Amman,
Jordan, his attorney, Elias Shamieh, said.

Bishawi was one of almost 200 Middle Easterners locked up nationwide since Sept.
11 -- people at first considered possible terrorist suspects and later charged
with immigration violations. The Justice Department says the arrests and
detentions are necessary as law enforcement officials scour the nation for the
perpetrators of the attacks on New York and the Pentagon.

The FBI won't comment on specific cases or say how many of the more than 1,100
detainees have been released. But for many those caught up in the sweep, the
arrests seem extreme.

"I'm not going to be able to really rest until he's home," said Calista Weichel,
the fiancee of Bishawi's brother. Weichel spent weeks calling the FBI, consular
officials, immigration agents and congressmen about Bishawi's case, which the
family calls a simple misunderstanding.

Bishawi's case stands out because he spent so much time in jail. Shamieh said he
is representing five clients who were also jailed, none for longer than 10 days.

Shamieh spoke with INS agents about Bishawi's detention Monday morning -- the
same day his story appeared in the Mercury News.

Overstayed visa

Bishawi tried to leave San Francisco on Sept. 25 with $4,800 cash after spending
several months in San Leandro. Authorities stopped him from boarding the plane
because he had overstayed his visa. He said in a telephone interview from jail
last week that he misunderstood the terms of his temporary visa and did not
realize it had expired.

Nasser Bishawi, his brother living in Nablus, said he came here to explore the
possibility of opening a store. The 27-year-old worked briefly in a friend's
North Carolina restaurant before coming to San Leandro.

His detention turned into a 43-day ordeal.

"The FBI asked me, 'What do you think about what happened on Sept. 11?' "
Bishawi said. "I told him, 'This is so bad, anyone who would do this, who would
kill civilians, is not a Muslim.' "

Bishawi accepted the deportation order, and said in a phone interview from jail
on Saturday that he just wanted to go home to see his ailing mother.

Deputies at the Yuba County Jail, where Bishawi spent weeks in a special area
reserved for immigration law violators, confirmed that he had been released
early Tuesday.

Shamieh said Bishawi called Wednesday from the airport. The two were trying to
figure out how he could get some pocket change for the long trip home. Federal
agents had seized his money and returned it in a check that he had no time to
cash.

Dozens arrested

Dozens of others have been picked up from Northern California in the sweep for
terrorist suspects. A Bay Area hate crimes hotline, established after Sept. 11,
has received calls from several people in detention including a Tunisian, a
Palestinian and two Yemenis picked up at home in Oakland.

Iman Farajallah, who runs the hotline, said she's now helping a 33-year-old
Iranian refugee from San Jose who was detained for seven days by the FBI after
making an illegal U-turn.

One man, a Yemen citizen picked up in Sacramento, was transported to an Arizona
jail because California jails were too crowded, Shamieh said.

Two Israeli-born Arabs were picked up at a family grocery store in San Francisco
and are awaiting deportation proceedings.

A Lebanese auto mechanic picked up at San Francisco Airport was released Oct.
30. He is married to a green-card holder soon to be eligible for citizenship,
Shamieh said.

Yet another client, a Palestinian born in Syria and married to a U.S. citizen,
was arrested in a San Francisco mosque in the Tenderloin after he got a call
from the FBI on his cell phone and agreed to meet an agent there, Shamieh said.

That man, who wished to remain anonymous, is married to a U.S. citizen but had
not adjusted his immigration status.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 20, 2001 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REGION'S WEALTH LEADS U.S.;
CENSUS BUREAU FINDS HIGHEST MEDIAN INCOME IN SAN JOSE, MORE WELL-EDUCATED
IMMIGRANTS
DATA COLLECTED BEFORE DOWNTURN SHOWS THAT POPULATION DEFIES TRADITIONAL
DEMOGRAPHIC PATTERNS SEEN AROUND THE NATION.

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY AND CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 815 words


Bay Area counties are among the wealthiest in the nation, with a unique mix of
educated and highly paid immigrants, according to data released today by the
U.S. Census Bureau.

The data, which was collected before the economic downturn, also shows that the
Bay Area had one of the largest percentages of foreign-born people in the
nation. More than one-third of the residents in San Jose and San Francisco were
born outside the United States, and about half the households in those cities
spoke a language other than English, according to the survey.

Bay Area residents also had the highest median incomes in the nation, with
annual incomes of about $72,000 in San Jose and about $57,000 in San Francisco.
In New York, the median income was $40,000.

Today's data was part of a new survey that the U.S. Census Bureau hopes will
eventually replace the decennial census. It includes data from all U.S. cities
and counties with populations of at least 250,000 people.

The information was gathered in the same year as the 2000 census, but was
collected separately from the decennial survey. While the census included 17
million households, the new survey drew information from just 700,000.

The survey's limited sample makes rankings of cities and counties difficult; in
many cases, dozens of localities finished in statistical ties. Also, because of
differences in the way the information was gathered, it is not possible to
compare the new survey results to the 1990 census.

The Bay Area's combination of high incomes and large immigrant populations
defies traditional demographic patterns around the nation, where immigrants have
largely worked in low-wage jobs and have less education, according to
demographers.

Hans Johnson, a demographer at the Public Policy Institute of California, said
there has been an unequal distribution of immigrants in the state that has
helped Silicon Valley economically.

"We really have many immigrants who are very well-educated, which
usuallytranslates into higher incomes," Johnson said.

The nation's most educated populations were in the high-tech hubs of San
Francisco, Seattle and Raleigh. In those cities, about half the residents age 25
and older had bachelor's or advanced degrees. San Jose lagged behind its
high-tech counterparts, with about one-third of its population with comparable
degrees.

While the Bay Area's high incomes might be the envy of the rest of the country,
they can be misleading, economists said.

"Yes, it's better than the bottom," Johnson said. "But it also brings up a
unique issue, and that is the higher cost of housing that comes with high
income."

Bigger mortgages, too

In San Jose, about 20 percent of homeowners with mortgages spend at least 40
percent of their income on housing payments. Nationally, just 14 percent pay
more than 40 percent.

Likewise, the low poverty rates in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties -- both
ranked near the bottom statewide -- do not necessarily mean that the
once-booming economy lifted people out of poverty. On the contrary, Johnson
said, it probably means that poor families were "priced out" of the valley.

"It's because they left," he said. "And it's because they never came here in the
first place."

For workers in Contra Costa County, the news was not good.

County residents have the longest travel times to work in the state, at 34.4
minutes, and one of the longest in the country. That figure includes both
drivers and those who take transit.

By comparison, it took residents of Alameda and San Francisco counties an
average of 30 minutes to get to work each day, and Santa Clara and San Mateo
residents 25 minutes.

Chuck Purvis, a census expert with the Metropolitan Transportation Commission,
said the longer travel time for Contra Costa probably reflects increased use of
transit -- which is slower -- and the long commutes of residents in the
easternmost part of the county.

"We saw many of these same characteristics in the 1990 Census," Purvis said,
"when Antioch and Brentwood had the longest times."

Less-educated immigrants

While the Bay Area's immigrant population had higher incomes than other areas,
experts said, the state attracted a large population of less-educated immigrants
working in low-wage jobs such as farming, construction and the hotel industry.

"The economy for immigrants in California is much more diversified than other
states in the nation," said John Haaga, a director for the Population Reference
Bureau in Washington, D.C.

This year's economic downturn could affect both groups of immigrants, Haaga
said. Silicon Valley companies have laid off thousands of employees, and
hundreds of fledgling Internet firms have collapsed. In a domino effect,
service-level jobs in the Bay Area's hotels, restaurants and stores have been
cut, leaving many immigrants around the Bay Area jobless.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WHO'S FIRST, WHO'S WORSE
A sampling of rankings from a national Census Bureau survey conducted on 2000.
The survey included cities and counties with populations of 250,000 or more
MERCURY NEWS

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: BEN MARGOT -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
BAY BRIDGE TRAFFIC: A census survey finds that Contra Costa County workers have
the longest travel times to work in the state, at 34.4 minutes, and one of the
longest in the country.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 22, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLICE RESIST FEDERAL PLAN TO INTERVIEW IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: BRANDON BAILEY AND MATTHAI CHAKKO KURUVILA, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1202 words


Citing concerns about racial profiling and domestic intelligence gathering, some
police departments are balking at the U.S. Justice Department's plan to have
local cops help interview 5,000 recent immigrants as part of the government's
anti-terrorism campaign.

The acting police chief in Portland, Ore., has already turned down federal
officials' request for help. Police in San Jose and San Francisco said Wednesday
that they had not been asked but that they also would decline.

By department policy, San Jose police aren't supposed to question people without
a specific crime to investigate, said Chief William Lansdowne. "We wouldn't be
involved in that," he said.

San Francisco police are concerned that the interviews would run afoul of their
efforts to foster relationships with immigrant communities, said officer Jim
Deignan, a department spokesman. He also cited city policies against gathering
information about an individual's immigration status and political beliefs.

Police in other California cities, including Oakland and Fremont, which has one
of the Bay Area's largest Middle Eastern communities, say they don't share those
reservations. "We don't have any restrictions as it relates to information
gathering," said Oakland police spokesman George Phillips.

Federal officials compare the effort to routine police methods such as
canvassing for witnesses in a neighborhood where a crime has occurred.

But civil rights advocates complained that the government appears to be unfairly
targeting Middle Eastern men. And some said the hesitation of some police is
another indication that the government is wading into a legal minefield as it
tries to develop new tactics for battling terrorism.

While federal officials say the interviews are intended to find out if the
individuals have any helpful information about people involved in terrorism, a
Justice Department memo also suggests asking about the individuals' immigration
status, reasons for being in the country, roommates and associates and any
feelings of sympathy for terrorist causes.

"We understand there is an investigation taking place, but this sweeping kind of
approach is very, very scary," said Michel Shehadeh, West Coast director of the
American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.

As part of an accelerated effort to gather information about the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks -- and to prevent future acts -- the Justice Department says
it compiled a list of 5,000 individuals who "fit the criteria of persons who
might have knowledge of foreign-based terrorists."

Ashcroft's explanation

"These individuals were not selected in order to single out a particular ethnic
or religious group," said U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft in a Nov. 9 memo,
in which he added that those on the list should not be considered criminal
suspects.

The list consists of men ages 18 to 33 who have entered the United States in the
last two years -- using student, tourist or business visas -- from countries
where terrorist organizations are believed to be active.

Ashcroft has asked the Justice Department's regional anti-terrorism task forces
to locate the men and conduct voluntary, "low-key" interviews.

Questions about religious beliefs are to be avoided during the interviews,
according to a department memo, which says individuals should be allowed to have
interpreters or attorneys present if they want.

Ashcroft asked the anti-terrorism task forces, which consist of federal, state
and local agencies in each federal court district, to complete the interviews by
mid-December. To meet that deadline, spokeswoman Gina Talamona said the Justice
Department hopes local police departments will provide manpower to conduct many
of the interviews.

"The way to put this in context is: We're at war. And we're doing what we need
to do, to gather as much information as we can to prevent any further terrorist
activity" as well as to investigate the Sept. 11 attacks, Talamona said.

But the effort has been delayed in some regions, as federal and local officials
negotiated concerns about how to divide up the work. In some cases, federal
authorities have acknowledged some reluctance to bring local officersinto the
loop; in others, local police have said they're not sure they had the right
training or adequate personnel for the job.

Those concerns came to a head this week when the acting police chief in Portland
told the U.S. Attorney's Office there that he will not allow his officers to
assist in the interviews.

Portland officials say Oregon state laws prohibit local police from inquiring
about an individual's immigration status, personal acquaintances or political
beliefs unless it is directly relevant to a criminal investigation.

Other concerns

Acting Chief Andrew Kirkland also told the New York Times on Tuesday that he is
especially sensitive to the issue of racial profiling because he is
African-American. Kirkland couldn't be reached for comment Wednesday.

Police officials in San Jose and San Francisco cited restrictions similar to
Oregon's that are contained either in department policies or city ordinances.

"Our policies are such that there has to be a criminal nexus for us to do an
investigation like that," said Lansdowne, the San Jose chief. While the Justice
Department has compared the interviews to a routine neighborhood canvass,
Lansdowne said the effort appears to go "far beyond that."

In addition, officials in San Jose and San Francisco said their departments have
longstanding policies intended to build the trust of immigrant communities.

Under those policies, the departments try to avoid acting as enforcers of
federal immigration laws.

A spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office in San Francisco, which leads the Bay
Area's anti-terrorism task force, declined comment Wednesday.

While Fremont police have agreed to help in the interviews, spokesman Bill
Veteran said his department would prefer to let federal agents do the actual
questioning because it is a federal investigation.

Veteran said the department could serve as a liaison between federal authorities
and the local Muslim community.

"We have a strong relationship with our Islamic community," Veteran said. "We
would rather be there to facilitate the interview."

Police spokesmen in Oakland and Los Angeles declined to say whether they had
been asked to help conduct interviews, while indicating they would have no
problem doing so.

Fears of distrust

Muslim community leaders contacted Wednesday said it would be regrettable if
police participated in the interviews, especially after local departments had
made a conscious effort to build relationships since Sept. 11.

"I think the relationship between the immigrant community and the local police
is at its best right now," said Omar Ahmad, a Santa Clara resident who is
national president of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. He said he
feared the interviews could breed distrust.

Instead of local police acting as intermediaries for federal authorities, Ahmad
hopes that local community members can sit in on interviews.

"We want to make sure that innocent people don't get burned in the process," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS
BATTLING TERRORISM
Mercury News staff writer Sean Webby contributed to thisreport.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 28, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW COLUMN ADDRESSES ISSUES FACING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 700 words


Most new immigrants are completely taken aback by the maze of regulations that
are enforced by the agency that welcomes them to this country, the INS.

I know how they feel.

I came to this country from India 13 years ago. As an immigrant myself, I have
felt my own share of happiness, frustration, confusion and, on many occasions,
complete and utter helplessness in my dealings with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

My first thought, too, was: This is not how things should be. I should not be
filling out all these forms, mailing them in and waiting months only to be told
that I should have filled out Form B and not C. And how come I had not attached
the doohickey? And oh, by the way, start from square one and we'll get back to
you in August.

We're inaugurating this column in the hope of helping you make sense of the
myriad INS rules and regulations. But we don't want it to be just a Q&A about:
"I've been waiting nine years for my green card!" We also want it to reflect the
immigrant experience in general.

This is version 1.0. The column will develop and evolve according to your needs
and concerns. We hope you will make this forum yours as much as it is ours.

We invite you to write us with questions and stories about life in your new
communities. Tell us about aspects of American life that have surprised you --
pleasantly or otherwise.

Send your ideas to immigration@sjmercury.com

We're hoping that when the bureaucracy is being unresponsive to your concerns,
we can help prod it along. And, when the INS doesn't have answers,we'll try to
get them from immigration experts and pass them along to you.

I think that most folks at the INS want to be helpful. But sometimes the volume
of questions they must answer overwhelms them, and sometimes the complexities of
the law make quick answers impossible.

Life after Sept. 11: This week, we'll take a look at some issues that have
arisen since the events of Sept. 11.

The terrorist attacks have completely changed the dynamics of the immigration
debate in this country. In a few short weeks, we have gone from conversations
about open borders to big fences and national ID cards. Even in the diverse Bay
Area, immigrants are feeling uneasy, as if a spotlight is being targeted on
them.

Since Sept. 11, there have been many incidents where immigrants who were lawful
residents of the United States have been taken off airplanes and questioned --
but not detained. Those who appeared to be "Arab or Muslim-looking," or were of
South Asian origin have, in some instances, also been asked to provide proof of
their legal status in the United States.

The airlines put out statements that such acts are not acceptable, but have said
little about the rights of the individuals affected in these cases. Most have
been allowed to board other flights. Be advised, though, that the pilots have
the ultimate authority to order any passenger off if they don't feel comfortable
with him or her on the plane.

So what should you do if you find yourself pulled off an airplane or the
authorities show up looking for you at work? Immigration experts are suggesting
that if you are here on a non-immigrant visa or have a green card, you should
carry all supporting documents with you, including your passport, at all times.

There have been incidents where a few travelers were threatened with deportation
for failure to produce the documents. There is an INS provision that requires
"every alien, 18 years of age and over, to carry with him and have in his
possession any certificate of alien registration or alien registration receipt
card issued to him." You can't be deported just because you don't have your
paperwork, but keeping it with you can reduce hassles.

New York City INS hotline: If you are an undocumented immigrant and know someone
who was killed or missing in the Sept. 11 attacks, you can call the INS at (800)
331-0075 for more information. The INS has called for everyone who has lost
friends, family members or employees in the attacks to contact local authorities
to assist in identifying the victims. Illegal immigrants can call without fear
of INS retribution, the agency stresses.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 28, 2001 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

DEFENSE BUILDS CASE IN SEX, LABOR SCANDAL;
ATTORNEY CALLS INVESTIGATION 'SLIPSHOD' IN FINDING EVIDENCE AGAINST LANDLORD

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 315 words


The government conducted a "slipshod" investigation that led to indictments
against two brothers allegedly involved in an immigration, sex and labor case, a
defense attorney charged Tuesday in a court hearing.

That charge will be one small piece of the defense strategy for defendants Vijay
and Prasad Lakireddy, attorney George Cotsirilos told U.S. District Court Judge
Saundra Brown Armstrong.

Last summer, federal prosecutors revealed that Uma Rao, a Telugu-speaking court
interpreter, urged four girls to embellish their stories against the Lakireddy
family. Two of those girls admitted to lying.

Cotsirilos, who is representing Vijay Lakireddy, said he would tell jurorsabout
the "unqualified interpreter" who had "massive access" to six witnesses. Their
testimony helped shape the investigation against the Lakireddy family.

Cotsirilos urged Brown to release more information on Rao's relationship with
witnesses and a variety of agencies who also used her services.

The judge delayed her ruling until Monday.

Lakireddy Bali Reddy, the father of the two brothers, was sentenced in spring to
eight years in prison for fraudulently bringing over dozens of immigrants from
India to work in his Bay Area restaurants and properties, sometimes having
illegal sex with underage immigrant girls. His sons and two other relatives were
also charged as co-conspirators.

It was also revealed for the first time Tuesday that three girls -- who later
became the key prosecution witnesses -- were initially arrested and in custody
for at least a month because they were brought into the country illegally almost
two years ago.

The other three girls were brought to the Bay Area by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from India to testify against the Reddy family. The
government is protecting the six girls, who say they fear retribution from the
Lakireddy family.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lakireddy

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 29, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SAN JOSE RANKS 7TH IN MIXED-RACE RESIDENTS;
NEW YORK, LOS ANGELES TOP NATION'S LIST COMPILED BY CENSUS BUREAU
DEMOGRAPHERS ATTRIBUTE THE TREND TO A COMBINATION OF THE BAY AREA'S LONG HISTORY
OF IMMIGRATION AND A CULTURE OF ACCEPTANCE.

BYLINE: CECILIA KANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 484 words


Of all major American cities, San Jose has the seventh largest mixed-race
population, according to a new Census Bureau study released Wednesday.

Several smaller Bay Area cities, including Hayward, Daly City and Vallejo, have
unusually large concentrations of mixed-race people, according to the study,
based on 2000 census data released last spring.

San Jose is home to 45,062 people -- one in 20 residents -- who belong to two or
more races. The study looked at data from American cities with at least 100,000
residents.

Demographers and multirace experts say a combination of the Bay Area's long
history of immigration and an accepting culture have made the region one of the
nation's most ethnically mixed areas.

New York had the largest number of mixed-race residents, followed by Los
Angeles, Chicago, Houston, San Diego, and Honolulu.

The report breaks out only the cities that made the top 10 for their percentage
of mixed-race residents or overall number of mixed-race people. San Francisco
and Oakland did not make either list.

According to the 2000 census, San Francisco had 33,255 mixed-race people, or 4.3
percent, and Oakland had 19,911 mixed-race people, or 5 percent.

Hans Johnson, a demographer at the Public Policy Institute of California, said
that intermarriage is more common among the children of immigrants. Foreign-born
residents tend to marry within their own ethnic group, gravitating toward people
who share their native culture and language. But their children are more likely
to marry outside their race.

"In San Jose and much of California, you have a very diverse population, and
many of those people have been here for a long time," Johnson said. "You need
both of these things for mixed-race populations."

In San Jose, 8 percent of whites belonged to at least one other racial group; 8
percent of Asians claimed more than one race, and 15 percent of blacks belonged
to at least one other group.

Seven percent of the city's Hispanics claimed two or more races.

Stacy Thompson, whose two sons are half black and half white, says that a
culture of acceptance has also helped fuel the Bay Area's multiracial
population.

"All the barriers are coming down," said Thompson, a board member of I-Pride, a
Bay Area mixed-race organization.

She said that there is more intermarriage in recent years among all races.

"There can be diversity but no social integration. In San Jose and other places
like Oakland and San Francisco, people interact and are open to differences."

MIXED-RACE POPULATIONS
1. New York, 393,959, 4.9 percent mixed race
2. Los Angeles, 191,288, 5.2 percent mixed race
7. San Jose, 45,062, 5 percent

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Largest mixed-race populations
Ten cities with the largest number of people of two or more races.
Source: Census Bureau
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 6, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOREIGNERS TO BE TRACKED IN CRIMINAL DATABASE

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The names of more than 300,000 foreigners who disappeared after being ordered
deported will be entered in a crime database so police can help track them down,
the Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Wednesday.

By entering their names in the National Crime Information Center database, the
missing deportees might be identified by officers in traffic stops or other
identity checks, INS Commissioner James Ziglar told the House Government Reform
subcommittee on criminal justice.

The INS has come under heavy criticism since the Sept. 11 attacks for its
failure to better track those who enter the country. The agency says it does not
know the whereabouts of 314,000 foreigners who were ordered deported. Until now,
such a disappearance was a fairly low-risk gamble for the foreigner.

Joe Karpinski, Ziglar's congressional liaison, said the vast majority had
committed administrative violations, such as overstaying a tourist visa, and are
not criminals. He said some might already have returned on their own to their
former countries.

INS officials estimated Wednesday that as many as 7 to 10 percent of those who
have avoided deportation might be caught annually through the new procedures.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 12, 2001 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SCREENERS FEAR JOB LOSS;
CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENT THREATENS TO SHATTER DREAMS

BYLINE: ANN E. MARIMOW, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1097 words


The network of Filipino immigrants in the Daly City and South San Francisco
neighborhoods some call Little Manila helped the Conanan family fulfill its
long-held dream of making it in America.

Community connections got Bien Venido Conanan, his wife, Corazon, and their son,
Jordan, jobs as security screeners at San Francisco's airport. The jobs didn't
pay much, but offered better prospects than the life they'd left behind in the
Philippines.

Many fellow Filipino immigrants had taken the same route, and today these legal
immigrants make up about 70 percent of the screener workforce at San Francisco
International Airport.

But their ambitions were dashed last month when the United States changed the
rules: After the Sept. 11 attacks, the government decided the nation's skies
would be safer if screeners were citizens.

Fear of losing their jobs turned to anger when the screeners realized that only
they -- and not immigrants who are pilots, flight attendants or military
personnel -- were being singled out to be fired.

"The government made a mistake," says Romulo Raval, a Daly City residentand
screener for the last four years. "I'm doing my job to protect the interests of
the American people, and now I'm being punished for not being a citizen."

Screeners hold out hope that politicians will reconsider the citizenship
requirement included in an air safety bill passed last month and save their
jobs. Airport officials and the San Francisco Board of Supervisors are
scrambling to persuade the government to keep the immigrant screeners because
they are already trained and replacing them would be a logistical nightmare.

Screeners are optimistic about moves like Sen. Dianne Feinstein's last week to
draft laws that would speed up the naturalization process for immigrants who
have lived in the United States for the requisite five years and meet other
requirements of the law, such as English proficiency.

Feinstein's proposal could help some immigrants on the cusp, like Raval, who is
just 10 months away from his 5-year anniversary at the airport. But many
screeners arrived too recently to qualify for naturalization anytime soon.
Immigration laws require five years of residency in the United States before
starting the application process.

Ties date to W.W. II

Raval, 69, immigrated to the Bay Area to join his eight children, who are all
naturalized citizens. But his ties to the United States date back to World War
II. At age 10, Raval was a messenger for U.S. soldiers fighting the Japanese in
his native country. In the 1970s, he spent a decade working in the United States
as a mechanical engineer.

Raval said he and his immigrant colleagues have proved their loyalty, protecting
the flying public at security checkpoints, and should be given top priority for
the new higher-paying federal positions.

Until two years ago, Filipino immigrants were some of the only people who would
sign up for the low-paying positions at the airport. But with the passage of a
living wage law in San Francisco and union organizing, the screeners' salaries
went from $6.25 an hour to $13 an hour. Average turnover among screeners also
has fallen from over 100 percent to less than 15 percent, according to airport
officials.

"It was better to have a job than no job at all, so the Filipinos sacrificed,"
said Daly City resident Vicente Crisologo, a screener who emigrated two years
ago to live with his son. "We stuck it out until the salaries became attractive,
and now they're kicking us out."

Nationwide, thousands of immigrant security workers are scheduled to be fired
next year. More than half the workforce at San Francisco and Los Angeles
airports are legal residents but not U.S. citizens, likewise for about 40
percent of the 150 screeners at Oakland's airport. San Jose airport officials
say they don't keep track of the number of non-citizens.

The airport security law President Bush signed last month calls for the hiring
and training of a new federal workforce of 28,000 screeners as early as
February. But the firings are not likely to happen until later in 2002 because
the government won't have enough replacements ready by February, officials said.

A family's story

For two decades, the Conanans dreamed of bringing their family to the United
States. But it wasn't until March 2000 that the couple and their two youngest
children made it to the top of the waiting list for green cards for Filipino
immigrants.

In Manila, Bien was an elected official, representing a region of 30,000 people.
Corazon still proudly carries a business card from her 21-year career as
director of finance at the Technological University of the Philippines.

Besides their careers, the Conanans left behind three grown children who are too
old to emigrate under their parents' petition for residency and must apply for
green cards separately.

"This is the land of promise," said Bien, 55. "The Philippines is a poor
country, no matter what you do. It's economically better for our children if we
work here."

Long-distance phone calls to their children cost the Conanans about $200 a
month. And each month Corazon sends a 24-by-24 box stuffed with Americangoodies
such as flavored Quaker oatmeal, pistachio nuts and Teflon pans from Costco that
would cost a fortune in the Philippines.

"Anything American," said Corazon, 52. "We want them to taste America."

The Conanan's college degrees and work experience didn't translate when they
arrived in the United States. It was only through the network of Filipino
immigrants that they landed positions at the airport.

Difficult immigration laws

The citizenship requirement poses a problem even for immigrants who have lived
in the United States for five or more years. An unintended consequence of
immigration laws and quotas for Filipinos is a disincentive to apply for
citizenship: The process of bringing relatives over is shorter if you're a
permanent resident and not a citizen.

If screener Maria Aguilar of San Francisco decided to apply for citizenship to
keep her job, she would be asking her son to wait an additional two or three
years to join her.

"We will be losing the opportunity to bring our family," said Aguilar, 63, who
has worked as a screener for the past year. "He's already waited for a long
time."

Like many new arrivals to the United States, immigrant screeners say they have
little political power to sway policy decisions in Washington.

While they wait, screener Crisologo says, "I'll just cross my fingers. That's
the only thing I can do."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PENNY DE LOS SANTOS -- MERCURY NEWS
Bien Venido Conanan, right, his wife, Corazon, and son, Jordan, at home in South
San Francisco, work as screeners.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 13, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

JUDGE CITES CONFLICT, EXCUSES SELF FROM IMMIGRATION LABOR, SEX CASE;
EXPLANATION NOT GIVEN
IMPACT ON PROCEEDING AGAINST FAMILY UNCLEAR

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 465 words


Two years into the high-profile legal proceedings, the federal judge overseeing
a complex case against a Berkeley family that illegally imported Indian
immigrants has abruptly excused herself without explaining why.

U.S. District Court Judge Saundra Brown Armstrong, in a two-sentence order
Monday in Oakland, said: "Due to a conflict of interest, I hereby recuse myself
in the above entitled matter," referring to four members of wealthy landlord
Lakireddy Bali Reddy's family charged with an array of crimes including
immigration fraud and sex charges.

Her sudden decision came as she was expected to issue a ruling involving a court
interpreter who has been accused of encouraging Reddy's victims to lie.

Armstrong did not respond to a written request from the Mercury News seeking
comment.

"This is a total surprise," said Paul Wolf, a defense attorney representing
Prasad Lakireddy, charged with bringing illegal immigrants into the United
States and importing them for immoral purposes. "I am very curious to know why
this happened."

No reason given

"No one knows the reason why," said Michael Rubin, an attorney representing some
of Reddy's victims in a pending civil case.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan, who is prosecuting the case, appeared
to be taken aback by the judge's announcement, but he declined to comment.

Nonetheless, attorneys said they don't expect the change in judges will delay
the case, which still involves two sentencings and at least one more trial. They
expect newly assigned Judge Claudia Wilken will be able to read the case file
and quickly bring herself up to speed.

Wolf said he is concerned about the nature of Armstrong's conflict of interest
and wondered whether that may have affected other aspects of the case when she
first began presiding over it in early 2000.

It was then that the family patriarch, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, was arrested,
exposing a 15-year immigration scheme, where he brought dozens of immigrants
over from his village in Velvadam, India, to work in his empire of restaurants
and properties for low wages. He forced some of the girls to have sex.

In June, Armstrong sentenced Reddy to eight years in prison.

Cases in limbo

Reddy's sons, Prasad and Vijay Lakireddy, have withdrawn their guilty pleas and
plan to go to trial. Reddy's brother and sister-in-law, Jayaprakash and
Annapurna Lakireddy, were scheduled to be sentenced before Armstrong in January.
But now, no one knows when that will happen.

Since the summer, Armstrong had been hearing arguments about what to do with a
Telugu-speaking court interpreter who has been accused of coaxing some witnesses
to embellish their stories. She was expected to issue a decision relating to Uma
Rao either late last week or early this week.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 19, 2001

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 12/19/01, pg. 2A)
An article in the Dec. 13 local section about the recusal of U.S. District Court
Judge Saundra Brown Armstrong from the Reddy family case incorrectly stated that
defendants Prasad and Vijay Lakireddy had withdrawn their guilty pleas. In
October 2000, the brothers, charged with a variety of immigration fraud and sex
charges, agreed to enter guilty pleas. But two months later, they changed their
minds and didn't enter into a plea agreement.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [Reddy]

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 14, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP RULE FOR BAG SCREENERS IS UNNECESSARY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 215 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein is right to try to save immigrant airport security
screeners from losing their jobs.

If you don't have to be a U.S. citizen to be an airline pilot or serve in the
armed forces, it's hard to imagine how the security of Americans is compromised
by letting non-citizens screen luggage at airports.

Congress needs to undo this bad provision in the new airport security law.
Besides being blatantly anti-immigrant, the provision creates an unnecessary
headache for airports in the Bay Area and other places with large immigrant
populations. At San Francisco International, 80 percent of the people who screen
passengers and luggage are non-citizens. Nationwide the figure is about 25
percent.

Unfortunately, the Bush administration and congressional leaders don't seem
inclined to change the law. Perhaps they fear that in some circles, such a move
would be seen as compromising the security of air travel.

As a short-term fix, Feinstein is introducing legislation aimed at speeding up
the naturalization process for current screeners. That won't solve the overall
problem. But it will help some workers keep their jobs while concerned airport
officials and local political leaders try to educate Congress and the president
on the need to change the law.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 17, 2001 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ROUNDUP OF SAN DIEGO STUDENTS WAS THE PRODUCT OF OVERZEALOUS AND SELECTIVE
ENFORCEMENT BY INS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 382 words


WITH the drama of a high-risk drug raid, the Immigration and Nationalization
Service swooped down on dozens of San Diego homes Wednesday and rounded up 10
college students.

The nature of their crimes? Not complying with the terms of their visas, which
could range from not taking enough college credits, to dropping out of school.
And, oops, one of the students, it turns out, was mistakenly picked up. He was
released. None of the students had anything to do with the Sept. 11 attacks, or
posed a security threat to the United States.

Their high-profile arrests in the name of national security are the product of
overzealous and selective enforcement by the INS, and a continued targeting of
the very community that investigators should be courting.

Similar transgressions -- entering or staying in the country illegally -- are
being committed by some 6 million to 7 million others. An estimated 40 percent
of them originally entered on a valid visa, three-quarters of them as tourists.

For the INS to investigate the 2.4 million to 2.8 million holders of expired
visas would be an expensive, herculean and -- in furthering national security,
likely unproductive -- undertaking.

But of course the INS is not going to chase down all visa overstayers. In San
Diego, it simply targeted students from Middle Eastern, South Asian and Muslim
countries.

Similarly, the Department of Justice is seeking 5,000 men, 85 of them in the Bay
Area, selected solely because of their gender, age, nationality, type of visa
and date of entering the country.

These so-called voluntary, information-gathering interviews are clear and
repugnant, ethnic and religious profiling.

Americans want a thorough, professional and intelligent investigation, which
federal agencies are capable of conducting. Instead, the Justice Department has
substituted breadth for depth in its dragnet for terrorist criminals. And the
attorney general has branded as unpatriotic anyone who would dare criticize or
question his policies.

President Bush proclaims he's not waging war on Muslims or Arabs. He encourages
Americans not to vilify people by race or religion. Yet his administration's
deeds speak differently, and are frightening and alienating the very people
whose cooperation this country needs.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 19, 2001 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

IMMIGRANTS DECRY POST-SEPT. 11 RACISM;
PROTESTERS FROM MANY ETHNIC GROUPS GATHER AT OAKLAND FEDERAL

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 607 words


Immigrants of all backgrounds joined Tuesday to decry the racial profiling,
scapegoating and hatred they said have arisen since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

Organizers of the Oakland protest said the union of ethnic groups -- from Middle
Easterners to Mexicans -- was meant to show solidarity and provide a platform
for a list of concerns and complaints.

"We wanted to show immigrants that it was OK to speak out and dissent," said
Heba Nimr, a key organizer of the event. "And we know that south Asians, Arabs
and Latinos can't do it alone. We want to politicize our situation. Despite our
fear, we need to speak up for ourselves."

Among the issues discussed:

* Middle Easterners are being questioned and secretly detained by authorities
intent on finding out more information about terrorists.

* Mexicans said they have felt harassed and under more scrutiny at the U.S.
border because of stepped-up immigration policies.

* Some south Asians are being mistaken by the U.S. public and police for Arabs
and stigmatized because of their appearance. And they criticizedpolice in
Fremont -- home to a large Indo-American population -- for helping the federal
government question some residents about terrorism.

* Filipinos fear that in the name of national security, legislation to take
effect in February likely will lead to the firing of non-citizen airport
screeners. About 70 percent of screeners at San Francisco International Airport
are legal residents, but not citizens. The majority are from the Philippines.

"These mass firings will lead to the ethnic cleansing at the airports," said
Rhonda Ramiro, spokeswoman for the Committee of Human Rights in the Philippines.

Police deny targeting

When contacted about the concerns, federal and local authorities said they
aren't targeting foreign-born residents.

"We're in the business of investigating hate crimes and protecting civil
rights," said FBI spokesman Andrew Black. "We absolutely do not" use racial
profiling."

Fremont police say they are complying the with Department of Justice's request
to talk to six residents as part of an anti-terrorism campaign to ensure that
the questioning is done appropriately. Since these interviews are inevitable,
police spokesman Bill Veteran said it's better if the Fremont police, who have a
"strong relationship with the Middle Eastern community," be part of the process.

"Hey, that's America . . . that's democracy," said Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman
for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a federal agency that was widely
criticized Tuesday.

Rummery referred to an INS statement urging travelers to have their IDs ready to
make crossing the borders safer and faster. The statement said: "We want to do
everything we can to reduce the risks and hardships for those who routinely use
our land border ports during this period of heightened security."

Organizers said the setting of the protest -- the Oakland federal courthouse --
was significant because Samer Bishawi, a Palestinian living in San Leandro, was
temporarily, and secretly, detained in the jail there for overstaying his visa.
After spending more than a month in custody, Bishawi is now back home in the
West Bank.

Significant anniversary

And the timing of Tuesday's event also had significance. Dec. 18 marks the
second International Day of Solidarity with Migrants, a day to recognize the
contributions made by millions of migrants to the economies and well being of
their host and home countries, and to promote respect for their human rights.

Similar rallies were held in New York; Tucson, Ariz.; Los Angeles and Santa Fe,
N.M.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Arnoldo Garcia of the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights holds up
a handmade banner at a protest Tuesday outside Oakland's federal courthouse.
Organizers said the union of varied ethnic groups was meant to show solidarity
and provide a platform for a list of concerns and complaints.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 22, 2001 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL INTERVIEW TARGETS ELUSIVE;
IMMIGRANT-RIGHTS ADVOCATES MYSTIFIED, FEARFUL OVER AUTHORITIES' REFUSAL TO NAME
OR PROVIDE ANY DETAILS ABOUT THE 85 NORTHERN CALIFORNIANS TO BE QUESTIONED.

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON AND MICHAEL BAZELEY, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 646 words


The national campaign to interview more than 5,000 foreign-born men in
connection with Sept. 11, which federal officials said Friday was "substantially
completed," has left Bay Area immigrant-rights advocates mystified and fearful.

Authorities have refused to name or provide any details about the 85 Northern
Californians to be questioned. And despite concerted efforts by a coalition of
groups to identify and offer assistance to those on the list, only one person --
a Palestinian from Fremont -- is known to have been contacted for an interview.

Some Muslim community leaders, immigration attorneys and others hope that means
those being talked to have been treated fairly and don't need their help. But
others suspect authorities have simply failed to locate the interviewees or that
the subjects feel so intimidated that they are lying low.

"It's a chilling effect," said Victoria Tran, an attorney representing the
Palestinian college student who was contacted several days ago by Fremont police
on behalf of the U.S. Attorney's Office. After two detectives visited his home
when he was out and left a card, asking him to call them, she said, "He was just
scared to death."

The man telephoned the detectives and chatted briefly with them. But he has
declined -- on Tran's advice -- to undergo a more extensive interview, she said,
adding that Fremont police told her he was the only one of six people to be
questioned in that city who has been located. Fremont police declined to discuss
the matter.

The interviews, which were announced Nov. 9, were intended to focus on 5,146
men, aged 18-33, who primarily arrived in the United States after Jan. 1, 2000,
from countries linked to Al-Qaida terrorists.

Justice Department officials, who had hoped to complete the interviews by
Friday, wouldn't disclose how many have been done in California or nationwide.
But in a statement issued Friday, they said "several leads were generated that
appeared related" to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and that "nearly all of the
individuals located were extremely cooperative and forthcoming in answering
questions."

Although people have the right to refuse to answer questions, many may be afraid
to do so, according to Cleveland immigration attorney David Leopold. During an
interview with his client a few days ago, he said, an FBI agent suggested that
refusing to answer questions would be regarded as suspicious. "I find that very
troubling," Leopold said.

Justice Department spokeswoman Gina Talamona, however, said failing to
participate wouldn't subject someone to closer scrutiny and added, "We respect
their wishes."

Michael Shehadeh, West Coast director of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee, said he has spoken with only one person interviewed -- a Southern
California businessman who said the authorities who questioned him "were
polite." And because "we haven't heard an outcry" from others questioned,
Shehadeh said, "I take it as a good sign."

But some say the relative invisibility of those being sought for interviews may
be due to other reasons.

Elias Shamieh, a San Francisco attorney who has many clients with Middle Eastern
backgrounds, believes many people aren't eager to disclose that they've been
questioned because they don't want anyone to think they're an informant. "They
just want to avoid the embarrassment, so they keep it to themselves," he said.

Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, has another theory. "I don't think they've found a lot of them," he
said.

Moreover, given the controversial nature of the interviews, some authorities
don't seem to be pushing hard to get them done. "I've heard anecdotes where the
FBI has knocked on the door," Butterfield said, "and when the person says they
want an attorney, the FBI says, 'Never mind,' and leaves."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA RESPONDS
Civil rights groups have set up a hotline for people seeking legal help if they
are questioned. The number, a National Lawyers Guild hotline, is (415) 285-1055.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 27, 2001 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS QUIRK SLOWS APPLICATIONS FOR RESIDENCY;
SALVADORANS' LIVES PUT ON HOLD WHILE THEY WAIT FOR ACCEPTANCE

BYLINE: ERICA WERNER, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


El Salvador's savage civil war drove Roberto and Margarita Herrador north to the
United States in search of a safe haven for their family. They found it in a
country that, after 15 years, still won't accept them.

The Herradors and their three daughters are among tens of thousands of
Salvadoran and Guatemalan war refugees whose applications for permanent
residency, the first step toward citizenship, are languishing in INS files
though their eligibility was guaranteed by an act of Congress.

A peculiarity in Immigration and Naturalization Service procedures is creating a
large and growing backlog of applications, and agency officials estimate it will
take 20 years to get through them.

That's an eternity for families like the Herradors, who have spent years seeking
their promised residency under first one program, then another.

"There are a lot of people whose lives are on hold because of these delays,"
said Robert J. Foss, legal director of the Central American Resource Center.
"The INS is failing in a very big way around a group of people who have already
been through the wringer more than once."

The people affected have been in this country for more than a decade, and most
came to escape civil war. Their lives are burdened in countless ways because
they don't have green cards, the proof of permanent residency.

"It's created this sort of double standard for us. We have to do double the work
to get anything done than the average citizen," said Ingrid Herrador, 25, in an
interview in the family's small apartment in Mar Vista, a working class
community near Venice Beach. "And even though we do all of that and could be
really good for this society, we have all these obstacles that make it almost
impossible."

She was accepted by the University of California-Santa Cruz in 1995 but couldn't
go because of ineligibility for in-state tuition and student aid.

The family's legal status prevented Margarita Herrador from returning to El
Salvador when her mother and then her sister died.

Daughter Claudia, 28, must put off her dream of joining the Peace Corps until
her case is resolved.

Roberto Herrador, a trained accountant, has worked as a cashier at the same gas
station for more than a decade and makes $8 an hour. Career advancement
isdifficult for a non-resident with only a yearly work permit.

In El Salvador, Margarita and Roberto Herrador saw fellow activists in the
Catholic Church brutally killed by death squads and the military, and they
feared for their own lives.

The Herrador family is eligible for permanent residency under the Nicaraguan
Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, known as Nacara, passed by Congress
in 1997. A different provision of the act applied to Nicaraguans and Cubans;
their application process is much less stringent and most of their cases have
been resolved.

Those eligible had to, among other things, arrive in this country before 1990,
live here continuously for seven years and demonstrate good moral character.

The delay in processing Nacara claims comes down to a quirk of INS bureaucracy.

Nacara applications are processed by the INS Asylum Division. The INS is
required by law to process some cases quickly, and classifies them as a higher
priority than the Nacara cases.

Asylum and refugee cases are processed first. This fiscal year, that will take
about 95 percent of the agency's time and manpower, leaving just 5 percent to
handle Nacara cases, according to agency estimates.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: LUCY NICHOLSON -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Margarita Herrador displays hers and her daughter's passports with expired U.S.
visas. The family is caught in an INS backlog.
PHOTO: LUCY NICHOLSON -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Salvadoran war refugee Roberto Herrador leads a family prayer of thanks at
breakfast. From left are wife Margarita, daughters Claudia, 28, Ingrid, 25, and
Karin, 22.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 28, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. FAMILIES ALLOWED TO BRING INFANTS HOME

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: CAMBODIA


A dozen American families have been granted a special New Year's gift:
permission to bring their adopted infants home from Cambodia.

Last week, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service stopped issuing visas
for Cambodian orphans in an attempt to stem adoptions illegally negotiated by
human traffickers. But U.S. Ambassador Kent Wiedemann said Thursday that the
embassy was making an exception by granting the 12 families conditional
permission to take the children home.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WORLD NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 28, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE ADDS 630,000 RESIDENTS;
CALIFORNIA'S POPULATION RISES AMID DOT-COM AND ENERGY WOES

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 563 words


California added about 630,000 new residents, the size of the population of
Alaska, during the months of high-technology decline and energy crisis in the
state, according to new estimates released Friday by the U.S. Census Bureau.

About an equal proportion of international immigrants and natural increase --
births minus deaths -- accounted for the state's growth between April 2000 and
July 1, 2001, since the completion of the latest census.

Nevada and Arizona grew at faster rates, but among all states, the estimated
population growth in California during this period accounts for nearly one-fifth
of all growth, 3.4 million, in the United States, Lisa Blumerman, chief of
population estimates branch for the Census Bureau, reported.

"Is it a surprise? No. But it's consistent with what we've seen in the past,"
Blumerman said.

California has the largest population in the United States and the new estimates
reaffirm this spot. The estimated net international migration to California
during this period was about 344,000, one-fourth of all U.S. immigration.

But the Census estimates also show that California lost about 89,000 residents
to other U.S. states.

Demographer William Frey of the University of Michigan said these estimates show
the state's continuing reliance on international immigration to grow its
population and economy.

"What it means is whatever we do with immigration -- curtail it, impose new
regulations -- international immigration will have a bigger impact on California
that any other state," Frey said.

The negative domestic migration also indicates that California and its high
housing cost continues to be beyond the financial reach of many residents who
are choosing to move to other states where the cost of living is cheaper, Frey
said.

But Mary Heim, chief of the demographic research unit for the state's Department
of Finance, disputes the U.S. Census estimates.

When the state's own estimates are released next month, it will show an even
larger statewide growth, Heim said.

It will also show that the state gained instead of lost residents of other
states, she said.

California uses different indicators -- school-enrollment figures and driver's
license change of addresses -- to arrive at its estimates, which have for years
conflicted with U.S. Census estimates.

The U.S. Census uses federal tax returns, Medicare enrollment and birth and
death statistics.

The overall estimated growth for California shows that the state grew
significantly during the worst of the dot-com meltdown and the power shortage,
Heim said.

Population trends lag behind economic trends by a year to 18 months, so a more
realistic picture might emerge a year from now, when the U.S. Census releases
new population estimates, she said.

CHART
GROWTH IN A YEAR
U.S. Census estimates show a large part of the growth of thecountry in the past
year has occurred in the West. Figures below show Census 2000 population figures

 for April 2000 and estimates for July 2001, and the percentage change.
Area                April 2000   July 2001    Pct. Change
U.S.                281,421,906  284,796,887  1.2%
West                63,197,932   64,471,176   2.0%
California          33,871,648   34,501,130   1.9%
Source: U.S. Census BureauMERCURY NEWS
alifornia

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 9, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUPS ACCUSE INS OF RACIAL PROFILING;
BAY AREA ACTIVISTS SAY POLICY IS UNFAIR TO ARABS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 574 words


Bay Area immigrant and civil rights advocates on Tuesday denounced a government
plan to search for thousands of Middle Eastern men who have defied deportation
orders, decrying the new initiative as racial profiling.

"It really hurts to feel that you're being treated differently because of your
ethnic background or your religion," said Tanya Kadah, administrator at the Arab
American Cultural Center in San Jose. "If the initiative itself just targets one
group of people, it's racial profiling."

Kadah joins a chorus of Bay Area and national critics of the new plan by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to find 6,000 Middle Eastern men who have
ignored their deportation orders and disappeared in the United States. The
action is the government's latest attempt to rout out members of Osama bin
Laden's Al-Qaida terrorist network operating in the United States.

Last month, the INS announced a crackdown on 300,000 foreigners of various
nationalities who have violated deportation orders. But on Tuesday, it
acknowledged that it plans to start by focusing on 6,000 men from Middle Eastern
nations that have active Al-Qaida cells.

The names of the violators will be entered into the national FBI crime database,
an action that will allow law enforcement officials anywhere in the country to
check routine traffic stops or crime checks against the database. If they spot
any of the violators, they can then notify the INS.

Immigrant advocates worry that the new initiative will not only unfairly single
out an ethnic group, but could also have a chilling effect on their work.

"Our job is to help newcomers become self-sufficient and help with their
adjustment," said Rahim Aurang, director of the Bay Area Immigrant and Refugee
Services in Alameda, which helps resettlement of mostly Afghan refugees.

But the new initiative targeting Middle Eastern men could keep all refugees from
seeking services they need because they're fearful of being caught up in the
dragnet or singled out, too, Aurang said.

"It's counterproductive, it's bad law enforcement," said Lucas Guttentag,
director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union
in Oakland. "It alienates the very community that has to have confidence in the
fairness of the government's actions."

Justice Department officials have denied the initiative is racial profiling
meant to single out one ethnic group.

In Northern California, there are 18,400 people who fall under an informal INS
classification, "people who have been deported but have not departed," said INS
spokeswoman Sharon Rummery.

Of this number, 10,400 have gone before a deportation judge, asked for a few
months reprieve and then disappeared. The rest received deportation orders but
did not show up at their hearings, Rummery said.

The INS does not know how many people in Northern California are Middle Eastern
men among the government's nationwide list of 6,000, she said.

"I clearly see a double standard," said Ziad Ziadeh, vice president of the
United Muslims of America, a non-profit community organization in Fremont.

"Obviously, we would all like anybody who's responsible for terrorism to be
apprehended and punished," Ziadeh said.

"We know that drug smuggling is destructive but would that give the INS the
right to deport every Mexican and Colombian? That's the analogy that comes to
mind. It shows a glaring double standard," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 29, 2002 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

LAWYERS SEEK DROP OF CHARGES AGAINST BROTHERS;
INTERPRETER'S ROLE: CONDUCT OF TRANSLATOR PROMPTS MOTIONS IN IMMIGRANT LABOR,
SEX CASE

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 436 words


Lawyers for two Berkeley brothers charged in a high-profile case in which young
Indians were brought to the Bay Area for sex and cheap labor said Monday they
will file motions to dismiss some of the charges against their clients.

Speaking on behalf of Vijay Lakireddy, attorney George Cotsirilos told U.S.
District Judge Claudia Wilken that he would file the motions to dismiss within
30 days. Attorney Paul Wolf, on behalf of Prasad Lakireddy, indicated to the
judge he would do the same.

Neither lawyer would elaborate on their motions, but they did make clear the
dismissal motions will revolve around Uma Rao, a Telugu-speaking court
interpreter who acted as a cultural liaison between six victims in the case and
various government and social service agencies.

In a stunning admission by the government last summer, four of the young women
involved in the case claimed Rao encouraged them to "embellish" their stories
against the Reddy family.

The two brothers are charged in a 21-count indictment accusing them of playing
key roles in helping their father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, and two other relatives
illegally import dozens of immigrants for the past 15 years on fake visas.

Once in the Bay Area, federal prosecutors charge, the Reddy brothers and their
father forced the workers to work for less than minimum wage and, in some cases,
forced the girls to have sex with them. The Lakireddy brothers pleaded not
guilty. Their father pleaded guilty and is serving an eight-year prison term.

The judge has not yet issued a ruling on whether any testimony was tainted by
Rao's relationship with the victims.

While it has been speculated for at least six months that the case may unravel
against the Lakireddys, a family that owns at least $100 million in Berkeley
property, Monday was the first time this defense strategy became public.

But after Monday's hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan saidhe
doesn't plan to reduce any of the charges against the brothers.

"I don't see any change in the fact to support dropping anything," he said.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Reddy, the elder Reddy's brother and sister-in-law,
were scheduled to be sentenced Monday on one count each of immigration fraud.
But the sentencing was delayed until March 25 to give probation officers time to
finish their reports.

The delay frustrated a dozen or so Berkeley activists who have been attending
the Reddy court hearings, carrying picket signs critical of the family and
accusing them of getting relatively light punishments because they are wealthy
and can afford private lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 29, 2002 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

LAWYERS SEEK DROP OF CHARGES AGAINST BROTHERS;
INTERPRETER'S ROLE: CONDUCT OF TRANSLATOR PROMPTS MOTIONS IN IMMIGRANT LABOR,
SEX CASE

BYLINE: LISA FERNANDEZ, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 436 words


Lawyers for two Berkeley brothers charged in a high-profile case in which young
Indians were brought to the Bay Area for sex and cheap labor said Monday they
will file motions to dismiss some of the charges against their clients.

Speaking on behalf of Vijay Lakireddy, attorney George Cotsirilos told U.S.
District Judge Claudia Wilken that he would file the motions to dismiss within
30 days. Attorney Paul Wolf, on behalf of Prasad Lakireddy, indicated to the
judge he would do the same.

Neither lawyer would elaborate on their motions, but they did make clear the
dismissal motions will revolve around Uma Rao, a Telugu-speaking court
interpreter who acted as a cultural liaison between six victims in the case and
various government and social service agencies.

In a stunning admission by the government last summer, four of the young women
involved in the case claimed Rao encouraged them to "embellish" their stories
against the Reddy family.

The two brothers are charged in a 21-count indictment accusing them of playing
key roles in helping their father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, and two other relatives
illegally import dozens of immigrants for the past 15 years on fake visas.

Once in the Bay Area, federal prosecutors charge, the Reddy brothers and their
father forced the workers to work for less than minimum wage and, in some cases,
forced the girls to have sex with them. The Lakireddy brothers pleaded not
guilty. Their father pleaded guilty and is serving an eight-year prison term.

The judge has not yet issued a ruling on whether any testimony was tainted by
Rao's relationship with the victims.

While it has been speculated for at least six months that the case may unravel
against the Lakireddys, a family that owns at least $100 million in Berkeley
property, Monday was the first time this defense strategy became public.

But after Monday's hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan saidhe
doesn't plan to reduce any of the charges against the brothers.

"I don't see any change in the fact to support dropping anything," he said.

Jayaprakash and Annapurna Reddy, the elder Reddy's brother and sister-in-law,
were scheduled to be sentenced Monday on one count each of immigration fraud.
But the sentencing was delayed until March 25 to give probation officers time to
finish their reports.

The delay frustrated a dozen or so Berkeley activists who have been attending
the Reddy court hearings, carrying picket signs critical of the family and
accusing them of getting relatively light punishments because they are wealthy
and can afford private lawyers.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 6, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RAISING FEES, VOWING FASTER SERVICE ON PETITIONS

BYLINE: PANKAJ PAUL, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 656 words


For the second time in three years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will raise processing fees for almost all its forms and services.

The agency is promising that the increases, which take effect Feb. 19, will help
it process new petitions and applications in a timely manner.

Well, if that's what comes out of this, it would certainly be worth it. But at
an agency where backlogs are still expressed in years and not months, it will be
a challenge to fulfill that goal.

The cost of processing naturalization applications -- which recently went from
four to 10 pages -- will go up from $225 to $260. And the fees for
fingerprinting will double from $25 to $50.

Overall, it will cost an average of $20 more to file any kind of application
with the INS. The agency says the increase "adjusts for inflation and recovers
the costs of infrastructure investments."

Community-based organizations that work with low-income immigrants say the
increases will impose yet another hardship for their financially strapped
clients. Doug Keegan, the director of the Santa Cruz Immigration Project, said
the increases might seem modest, but on top of the increases two years ago, they
will make it more difficult for immigrants to apply for citizenship.

In all, it will cost about $310 to file for citizenship -- up $60.

The increases will discourage some people from applying, says John Hobbs, the
director of the Citizenship Program of Santa Clara County, which encourages
legal residents to become citizens.

Advocates say that the INS should not be charging $300-plus to process a
citizenship application to begin with. The INS has shown some improvement in the
past couple of years, they acknowledge, but that should not justify Congress
authorizing another fee increase.

On one hand, the government is encouraging immigrants to become citizens, but on
the other it is raising fees. Seems almost counterproductive.

I wanted to ask Rep. Zoe Lofgren -- who is on the House Immigration and Claims
Subcommittee -- what she thinks about that, but my efforts to contact her were
unsuccessful.

The INS will sometimes waive fees for low-income immigrants. It makes those
decisions on a case-by-case basis. And the waiver process is time consuming.

Hobbs said the last time the INS raised fees, it had said that 15 percent of the
money collected from naturalization applications would be set aside to pay for
fee waivers for low-income applicants.

But both Hobbs and Keegan said few of their clients bother to apply for waivers
because the process is so cumbersome. Approval rates are low, and it can take a
year to get an answer.

Keegan said his agency deals with hundreds of immigrants each month but has not
requested a waiver in nearly three years. Most low-income immigrants fear that
requesting a fee waiver will send their case into oblivion. Both Keegan and
Hobbs said the INS needs to re-examine its fee waiver policies, especially in
light of the fee increases.

There is no doubt in my mind that the INS needs all the help it can get. From
outdated and disconnected computer systems to understaffed offices, it could
certainly use the money to get better computer systems and hire more people. But
I don't think that immigrants who have been waiting for years to get an answer
on their applications will be convinced that this increase will be the answer to
all that ails the INS.

If you are looking to file your application before the fee increase kicks in
Feb. 19, the INS says you should send it in by Feb. 15 because of the Presidents
Day holiday.

If you have questions about the fee increases, the INS is having an open forum
at its San Jose office on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to noon. You can ask questions
about new laws, procedures, policies -- anything except information on
individual cases. If you go, be sure to bring a picture ID to enter the
building.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 6, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RAISING FEES, VOWING FASTER SERVICE ON PETITIONS

BYLINE: PANKAJ PAUL, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 656 words


For the second time in three years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will raise processing fees for almost all its forms and services.

The agency is promising that the increases, which take effect Feb. 19, will help
it process new petitions and applications in a timely manner.

Well, if that's what comes out of this, it would certainly be worth it. But at
an agency where backlogs are still expressed in years and not months, it will be
a challenge to fulfill that goal.

The cost of processing naturalization applications -- which recently went from
four to 10 pages -- will go up from $225 to $260. And the fees for
fingerprinting will double from $25 to $50.

Overall, it will cost an average of $20 more to file any kind of application
with the INS. The agency says the increase "adjusts for inflation and recovers
the costs of infrastructure investments."

Community-based organizations that work with low-income immigrants say the
increases will impose yet another hardship for their financially strapped
clients. Doug Keegan, the director of the Santa Cruz Immigration Project, said
the increases might seem modest, but on top of the increases two years ago, they
will make it more difficult for immigrants to apply for citizenship.

In all, it will cost about $310 to file for citizenship -- up $60.

The increases will discourage some people from applying, says John Hobbs, the
director of the Citizenship Program of Santa Clara County, which encourages
legal residents to become citizens.

Advocates say that the INS should not be charging $300-plus to process a
citizenship application to begin with. The INS has shown some improvement in the
past couple of years, they acknowledge, but that should not justify Congress
authorizing another fee increase.

On one hand, the government is encouraging immigrants to become citizens, but on
the other it is raising fees. Seems almost counterproductive.

I wanted to ask Rep. Zoe Lofgren -- who is on the House Immigration and Claims
Subcommittee -- what she thinks about that, but my efforts to contact her were
unsuccessful.

The INS will sometimes waive fees for low-income immigrants. It makes those
decisions on a case-by-case basis. And the waiver process is time consuming.

Hobbs said the last time the INS raised fees, it had said that 15 percent of the
money collected from naturalization applications would be set aside to pay for
fee waivers for low-income applicants.

But both Hobbs and Keegan said few of their clients bother to apply for waivers
because the process is so cumbersome. Approval rates are low, and it can take a
year to get an answer.

Keegan said his agency deals with hundreds of immigrants each month but has not
requested a waiver in nearly three years. Most low-income immigrants fear that
requesting a fee waiver will send their case into oblivion. Both Keegan and
Hobbs said the INS needs to re-examine its fee waiver policies, especially in
light of the fee increases.

There is no doubt in my mind that the INS needs all the help it can get. From
outdated and disconnected computer systems to understaffed offices, it could
certainly use the money to get better computer systems and hire more people. But
I don't think that immigrants who have been waiting for years to get an answer
on their applications will be convinced that this increase will be the answer to
all that ails the INS.

If you are looking to file your application before the fee increase kicks in
Feb. 19, the INS says you should send it in by Feb. 15 because of the Presidents
Day holiday.

If you have questions about the fee increases, the INS is having an open forum
at its San Jose office on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to noon. You can ask questions
about new laws, procedures, policies -- anything except information on
individual cases. If you go, be sure to bring a picture ID to enter the
building.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 6, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RAISING FEES, VOWING FASTER SERVICE ON PETITIONS

BYLINE: PANKAJ PAUL, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 656 words


For the second time in three years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will raise processing fees for almost all its forms and services.

The agency is promising that the increases, which take effect Feb. 19, will help
it process new petitions and applications in a timely manner.

Well, if that's what comes out of this, it would certainly be worth it. But at
an agency where backlogs are still expressed in years and not months, it will be
a challenge to fulfill that goal.

The cost of processing naturalization applications -- which recently went from
four to 10 pages -- will go up from $225 to $260. And the fees for
fingerprinting will double from $25 to $50.

Overall, it will cost an average of $20 more to file any kind of application
with the INS. The agency says the increase "adjusts for inflation and recovers
the costs of infrastructure investments."

Community-based organizations that work with low-income immigrants say the
increases will impose yet another hardship for their financially strapped
clients. Doug Keegan, the director of the Santa Cruz Immigration Project, said
the increases might seem modest, but on top of the increases two years ago, they
will make it more difficult for immigrants to apply for citizenship.

In all, it will cost about $310 to file for citizenship -- up $60.

The increases will discourage some people from applying, says John Hobbs, the
director of the Citizenship Program of Santa Clara County, which encourages
legal residents to become citizens.

Advocates say that the INS should not be charging $300-plus to process a
citizenship application to begin with. The INS has shown some improvement in the
past couple of years, they acknowledge, but that should not justify Congress
authorizing another fee increase.

On one hand, the government is encouraging immigrants to become citizens, but on
the other it is raising fees. Seems almost counterproductive.

I wanted to ask Rep. Zoe Lofgren -- who is on the House Immigration and Claims
Subcommittee -- what she thinks about that, but my efforts to contact her were
unsuccessful.

The INS will sometimes waive fees for low-income immigrants. It makes those
decisions on a case-by-case basis. And the waiver process is time consuming.

Hobbs said the last time the INS raised fees, it had said that 15 percent of the
money collected from naturalization applications would be set aside to pay for
fee waivers for low-income applicants.

But both Hobbs and Keegan said few of their clients bother to apply for waivers
because the process is so cumbersome. Approval rates are low, and it can take a
year to get an answer.

Keegan said his agency deals with hundreds of immigrants each month but has not
requested a waiver in nearly three years. Most low-income immigrants fear that
requesting a fee waiver will send their case into oblivion. Both Keegan and
Hobbs said the INS needs to re-examine its fee waiver policies, especially in
light of the fee increases.

There is no doubt in my mind that the INS needs all the help it can get. From
outdated and disconnected computer systems to understaffed offices, it could
certainly use the money to get better computer systems and hire more people. But
I don't think that immigrants who have been waiting for years to get an answer
on their applications will be convinced that this increase will be the answer to
all that ails the INS.

If you are looking to file your application before the fee increase kicks in
Feb. 19, the INS says you should send it in by Feb. 15 because of the Presidents
Day holiday.

If you have questions about the fee increases, the INS is having an open forum
at its San Jose office on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to noon. You can ask questions
about new laws, procedures, policies -- anything except information on
individual cases. If you go, be sure to bring a picture ID to enter the
building.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 6, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RAISING FEES, VOWING FASTER SERVICE ON PETITIONS

BYLINE: PANKAJ PAUL, MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 656 words


For the second time in three years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
will raise processing fees for almost all its forms and services.

The agency is promising that the increases, which take effect Feb. 19, will help
it process new petitions and applications in a timely manner.

Well, if that's what comes out of this, it would certainly be worth it. But at
an agency where backlogs are still expressed in years and not months, it will be
a challenge to fulfill that goal.

The cost of processing naturalization applications -- which recently went from
four to 10 pages -- will go up from $225 to $260. And the fees for
fingerprinting will double from $25 to $50.

Overall, it will cost an average of $20 more to file any kind of application
with the INS. The agency says the increase "adjusts for inflation and recovers
the costs of infrastructure investments."

Community-based organizations that work with low-income immigrants say the
increases will impose yet another hardship for their financially strapped
clients. Doug Keegan, the director of the Santa Cruz Immigration Project, said
the increases might seem modest, but on top of the increases two years ago, they
will make it more difficult for immigrants to apply for citizenship.

In all, it will cost about $310 to file for citizenship -- up $60.

The increases will discourage some people from applying, says John Hobbs, the
director of the Citizenship Program of Santa Clara County, which encourages
legal residents to become citizens.

Advocates say that the INS should not be charging $300-plus to process a
citizenship application to begin with. The INS has shown some improvement in the
past couple of years, they acknowledge, but that should not justify Congress
authorizing another fee increase.

On one hand, the government is encouraging immigrants to become citizens, but on
the other it is raising fees. Seems almost counterproductive.

I wanted to ask Rep. Zoe Lofgren -- who is on the House Immigration and Claims
Subcommittee -- what she thinks about that, but my efforts to contact her were
unsuccessful.

The INS will sometimes waive fees for low-income immigrants. It makes those
decisions on a case-by-case basis. And the waiver process is time consuming.

Hobbs said the last time the INS raised fees, it had said that 15 percent of the
money collected from naturalization applications would be set aside to pay for
fee waivers for low-income applicants.

But both Hobbs and Keegan said few of their clients bother to apply for waivers
because the process is so cumbersome. Approval rates are low, and it can take a
year to get an answer.

Keegan said his agency deals with hundreds of immigrants each month but has not
requested a waiver in nearly three years. Most low-income immigrants fear that
requesting a fee waiver will send their case into oblivion. Both Keegan and
Hobbs said the INS needs to re-examine its fee waiver policies, especially in
light of the fee increases.

There is no doubt in my mind that the INS needs all the help it can get. From
outdated and disconnected computer systems to understaffed offices, it could
certainly use the money to get better computer systems and hire more people. But
I don't think that immigrants who have been waiting for years to get an answer
on their applications will be convinced that this increase will be the answer to
all that ails the INS.

If you are looking to file your application before the fee increase kicks in
Feb. 19, the INS says you should send it in by Feb. 15 because of the Presidents
Day holiday.

If you have questions about the fee increases, the INS is having an open forum
at its San Jose office on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to noon. You can ask questions
about new laws, procedures, policies -- anything except information on
individual cases. If you go, be sure to bring a picture ID to enter the
building.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Immigrant Experience

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 20, 2002 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FATHERS FACE HURDLES TO BECOMING CITIZENS

BYLINE: PANKAJ PAUL column

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 567 words


Q
My father got his green card in 1995. A couple of years later, he went out of
the country for over two years. When he left, he was given a re-entry permit,
and he returned before it expired. He has had a green card for almost seven
years, and he was out of the country for a little over two years.

Is he eligible to become a U.S. citizen? Will his stay before his trip out of
the country be included as the number of years he has been in the United States?

H. Trivedi
San Jose
And on a similar topic. . .

Q
My dad plans to apply for U.S. citizenship. He will complete his five years of
permanent residency in September. How many days before September can he apply?

He is 72 years old. Is he eligible to get an exemption from the interview to
test his English language skills?

B. Perunatty
A
I asked Kristen Hatanaka of the Asian Law Alliance and Doug Keegan of the Santa
Cruz County Immigration Project to help me answer these questions. Their reading
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service rules poses problems for both
fathers.

Generally, a permanent resident is eligible to apply for citizenship after
having a green card for five years. If you are married to an American citizen,
you can apply for citizenship after three years.

Three months before the end of either period, a permanent resident can begin to
file the paperwork for citizenship.

But the conditions create difficulties in both of these cases:

* You should live continuously as a lawful permanent resident in the United
States for at least five years before filing with no single absence from the
United States of more than one year.

* Absences of more than six months will disrupt your continuity of residence
condition unless you can prove that you did not abandon your residence during
that period. Additionally, any trip of over one year may lead INS to think that
permanent residency has been abandoned, even if you had a re-entry permit. You
will have to wait an additional four years and one day from the date of return
before applying for citizenship.

* You should reside within one state or district for at least three months.

In addition, the INS says that all applicants must demonstrate the ability to
read, write, and speak in English at the citizenship interview. But the agency
can waive that condition if the applicant is age 50 or older and has been a
permanent resident for 15 to 20 years or has a medical disability that prevents
him from being able to learn English.

Q
I am in the United States on a religious workers' visa from Canada. My wife and
children are all U.S. citizens. What does my wife need to do to sponsor me for a
green card?

D. Tiffin
San Jose
A
If you are here with permission (in this case, a religious workers' visa) and
are married to a U.S. citizen, you can adjust your status to a legal permanent
resident by filing the appropriate forms with the local district office of INS.

The adjustment process is somewhat complex, and experts recommend that you get
the assistance of an immigration professional. But you can obtain an "adjustment
packet" from the INS office if you want to try to do it on your own. The process
takes about a year to complete.

In San Jose, applicants must complete seven or eight forms, including an
"Affidavit of Support," attach necessary documentation, and send the packet to
the INS office on Monterey Road.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Immigrant Experience
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information on naturalization: www.ins.usdoj.gov: graphics: services:
natz: index.htm.

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 20, 2002 Wednesday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

HUNDREDS RALLY BEHIND NON-CITIZEN SCREENERS;
PROTESTERS AT THREE BAY AREA AIRPORTS CONDEMNED A NEW FEDERAL POLICY REQUIRING
AIRPORT SECURITY WORKERS BE U.S. CITIZENS.

BYLINE: AARON DAVIS, ANN E. MARIMOW AND PUTSATA REANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 956 words


Hundreds of immigrants, labor leaders and students rallied at the Bay Area's
three major airports Tuesday to protest the federal government's new requirement
that airport security workers be U.S. citizens.

But only a few dozen screeners showed up out of the hundreds who stand to lose
their jobs in the coming months. Most stayed away, saying they feared that
speaking out would get them fired even more quickly.

"We would like to be out there," said screener Domingo Dacanay, aFilipino
citizen sporting a black New York City baseball cap while working at San Jose
airport. "That is our cause."

The rallies at San Jose, San Francisco and Oakland airports marked the area's
first major campaign against a law expected to cost nearly 1,000 non-citizens
their jobs in the Bay Area. Protesters said the measure gives precedence to
firing other immigrant workers in the name of national security.

"It's the politics of us and them," said Amor Santiago, president of Asian
Americans for Community Involvement in San Jose, at the San Jose gathering.
"When are we going to get it right?"

Some of the 550 non-citizen screeners at San Francisco International Airport
whose jobs are at stake held signs and led chants against the citizenship
requirement, saying screeners are being made scapegoats for the Sept. 11
tragedies.

The non-citizen screeners, however, were noticeably absent from protests at San
Jose and Oakland airports.

About seven out of 10 airport screeners in the Bay Area are Filipino immigrants.
Most found airport jobs through word of mouth within the close-knit Filipino
community.

"It's a racist excuse, and there's no justification for it," said 20-year-old
Kuusela Hilo, who heads a group of Filipino students at Stanford University and
joined the protest in San Jose. "The government is blaming immigrants."

Latinos, Asian-Americans, Pacific Islanders and college students were among
about 100 people gathered at Mineta San Jose International Airport to support
the airport's nearly 200 screeners who stand to lose their jobs.

"It's an issue of solidarity, of all immigrants supporting each other," said
Randy Okamura, chairman of the Asian Pacific Islander Caucus of the state
Democratic Party, while standing in the rain.

Officials at the government's new Transportation Security Administration say
requiring citizenship of airport security workers will allow the government to
conduct more thorough background searches of the screeners, as well as bolster
public confidence in airline security. The new law will force screeners to pass
an English proficiency exam. San Francisco Airport will be one of the first
airports in the nation to get new U.S. screeners -- non-citizen workers may be
replaced as early as May.

Under the aviation security act that Congress and the president signed following
the attacks, non-citizen screeners are to be replaced with U.S. workers by Nov.
19. California Sens. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer are pushing legislation
to fast-track naturalization for screeners who want to keep their jobs and who
are eligible to become U.S. citizens.

But many Filipino screeners are wary of becoming U.S. citizens because they
would have to forfeit rights to any property they own in the Philippines.
Becoming citizens would also complicate screeners' rights to help family members
obtain U.S. visas.

San Francisco Airport officials as well as San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown have
written letters to members of Congress in support of non-citizen screeners
keeping their jobs.

"They're already trained; they know what they're doing," San Francisco Airport
spokesman Ron Wilson said.

At San Francisco Airport, Erlinda Valencia, a security screener for 14 years,
said non-citizens are being unfairly targeted for letting terrorists board
flights on Sept. 11 with box cutters. Firing screeners for that lapse is unfair,
she said, because federal rules allowed passengers to carry knives up to four
inches long at the time.

"Box cutters are one inch or less," said Valencia, one of five screeners who has
sued the federal government over the citizenship requirement. "There is nothing
we have done wrong to harm the flying public. We were following the law. We can
be trusted."

Inside the San Jose airport, screeners worked in silence. Some said they were
afraid that joining the rally would further jeopardize their jobs.

Dacanay, a 59-year-old screener, said he applied for citizenship in December.
There is no guarantee his papers will be processed in time for him to keep his
job, he said. Feinstein's proposal to speed up screeners' immigration
proceedings could help Dacanay, but the senator's spokesman, Howard Gantman,
said Tuesday there's no indication when the Senate might vote on a bill.

At Oakland Airport, screener Danilo Orcullo, 51, joined the protest, while most
of his colleagues stayed away.

"I need to support my family, that's why I'm fighting for this job," said
Orcullo, who immigrated to Alameda from the Cavite province in the Philippines
five years ago. "We have the right to work."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
NON-CITIZEN SCREENERS
The federal government's citizenship requirement for airport security screeners
could cost hundreds of screeners their jobs at the Bay Area's major airports.
Here is a look at how many screeners could be affected.
Airport                 Non-citizen         Percent of
screeners           non-citizens
San Francisco           546                 70 percent
San Jose                184                 75 percent
Oakland                 35                  35 percent
Sources: Numbers are estimates from San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland airports

 and the union that represents screeners.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 1B, Morning Final edition
RELATED STORY: page 6B.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Chart;
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
Candelario Rosales, a security screener at San Francisco International Airport,
cheers during Tuesday's rally.
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
San Francisco screener Erlinda Valencia said immigrants are being unfairly
targeted.
PHOTO: NHAT V. MEYER -- MERCURY NEWS
San Francisco security screener Candelario Rosales was one of a few dozen
airport workers who attended Tuesday's rallies.

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 21, 2002 Thursday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

RIGHTS RALLY FOCUS: ABUSES;
FREMONT PROTESTERS SAY NEW LAWS LEAD TO ILLEGAL DETENTION OF ARABS, MUSLIMS

BYLINE: PUTSATA REANG, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 481 words


As the United States continues its war on terrorism, a group of civil rights
advocates gathered in Fremont on Wednesday to join a nationwide battle against
what they allege is the government's illegal detention of Arab and Muslim men
and other civil rights abuses since Sept. 11.

More than 150 community organizations from Seattle to New York also organized
press conferences and protests as part of the National Day of Solidarity with
Muslim, Arab and South Asian Immigrants to oppose what organizers say is
anti-immigrant hysteria that has led to racial profiling and recent federal laws
targeting immigrants.

Action in Fremont

In Fremont, members of the the South Alameda County Peace and Justice Coalition
called for the repeal of the Patriot Act and "material witness" laws that make
it easier for the government to jail immigrants indefinitely.

In San Francisco, demonstrators gathered in front of the federal building to
protest illegal detainments of Muslim and Arab men in East Coast prisons.

Since Sept. 11, an estimated 1,500 men have been jailed on apparently minor
immigration charges. But the actual list of people wanted by the FBI for
questioning in connection with the attacks is less than 100, according to
Wednesday's speakers.

Mohamad Rajabally, vice president of the Islamic Society of the East Bay and a
Fremont human rights commissioner, worries that the country will continue
sliding down a slope of civil rights infringements in what he called the
country's current anti-immigrant atmosphere.

Stories of Arab and South Asian immigrants being stopped in airport security
lines across the country or at U.S. borders are becoming routine, which
Rajabally says is frightening.

"We use the expression 'Driving While Black.' Now it's 'Flying While Arab,' "
Rajabally said. "Who's next?"

Making a statement

Rajabally and other panelists wore blue triangles with the names of young men
who have disappeared and are presumed imprisoned on a variety of charges that
have nothing to do with terrorism, such as expired visas.

"Many of us immigrants ran away from our countries because they had bad
experiences; you might disappear," Rajabally said. "It's sad to see they have to
go through this here."

The triangle historically has been associated with a badge of infamy in Nazi
Germany, where the Nazis categorized concentration camp prisoners byforcing them
to wear various colored triangles, said Jim Gonzales, a retired attorney and
member of the South Alameda County Peace and Justice Coalition.

Shahpour Matloob, an attorney who has represented two Bay Area men recently
detained and later released after getting caught with expired visas, said he and
others are working to inform immigrants of their rights if they are arrested.

Material witnesses are required by law to be provided with a court-appointed
lawyer and a bail hearing.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 23, 2002 Saturday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

U.S. ENDS VISA WAIVER BENEFIT FOR ARGENTINA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 67 words


The Justice Department said Wednesday it was removing Argentina from the Visa
Waiver Program, following Argentina's recent economic collapse that has led to
rising unemployment rate and economic uncertainty.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it has seen an increase in the
number of Argentine nationals attempting to use the program to enter the United
States and remain illegally.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 26, 2002 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

BERKELEY

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 374 words


Lawyers seek reduction of charges

for brothers in immigration fraud-sex case

Attorneys for Vijay and Prasad Lakireddy, brothers of a wealthy Berkeley family
charged in an immigration fraud and sex case, want four charges dismissed
because some of the alleged sex was in India.

Defense attorneys George Cotsirilos and Paul Wolf asked a federal judge in
Oakland on Monday to drop charges that the pair imported girls for "immoral
purposes" and traveled to have sex with minors.

They deny their clients had sex with minors and argue the case is unfair because
some alleged crimes happened outside U.S. jurisdiction. The Lakireddy brothers
also are charged with visa fraud, lying and witness tampering, which they deny.

Their father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, of Berkeley, was given eight years in prison
for illegally importing Indians to work in his restaurants and apartments.

SAN JOSE

Police recommend against issuing

Mardi Gras permit after two years of violence

After two years of trouble, the Post Street Mardi Gras, the center of San Jose's
Fat Tuesday celebrations, won't be back.

Police Chief Bill Lansdowne on Monday said he will not recommend another permit,
and sponsor Joel Wyrick said he won't stage another festival.

This year's celebration drew 8,000 people. There was drinking and women flashing
breasts, and attempts to force women to do that. Police were pelted with bottles
and rocks and vandals desecrated a statue of St. Ignatius at the Cathedral
Basilica of St. Joseph.

SAN JOSE

Father to face manslaughter charge

in death of 5-month-old left in car during summer

A judge Monday ordered Brian Palmer Gilbert to face charges of involuntary
manslaughter and felony child endangerment in connection with the death of his
toddler son.

Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Gilbert T. Brown allowed Gilbert to
remain free while the case awaits trial.

Kyle Gilbert, 5 months old, died of searing body temperatures last summer after
being left by his father in the car while Gilbert watched videos.

Gilbert told police he forgot his son was in the car for nearly three hours.
Gilbert's parents testified that he proved himself to be a caring and protective
parent.

From Mercury News staff reports

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     February 27, 2002 Wednesday A1 EDITION

Refugee flow remains slow;
ADMISSIONS RESUME: AFGHAN IMMIGRANTS IN FREMONT AFTER POST-SEPT. 11 SUSPENSION

BYLINE: T.T. Nhu Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words


The arrival of an Afghan family in the Bay Area last month was one indication
that the U.S. refugee resettlement program, temporarily suspended after Sept.
11, is slowly resuming.

Razia Ahmed Gul and her five children arrived Jan. 31 in Fremont -- the first
Afghan refugees to resettle in the Bay Area since the terrorist attacks on the
Pentagon and the World Trade Center. The family had been living in Pakistan for
six years while waiting to join other family members in Northern California.

Although President Bush announced the resumption of refugee admissions on Nov.
21 and pledged to admit 70,000 refugees in the fiscal year that began in
October, few refugees have been admitted to the country, according to
representatives of resettlement organizations.

In the first four months of the federal fiscal year, fewer than 800 refugees
were admitted, compared with 14,000 during the same period the previous year,
according to Cindy Jensen, an International Rescue Committee (IRC) national
resettlement director based in San Diego.

Under the 1980 Refugee Act, the United States accepts refugees who can
demonstrate a well-founded fear of persecution. U.S. policy gives the highest
priority to the voluntary return of refugees to their homelands. Resettlement in
the United States is considered for those whose return is not possible, who need
protection or who desire to join close relatives.

It helps if the petitioner already has family in the United States, according to
Jensen, but that does not guarantee entry.

Admissions freeze

After the terrorist attacks, the United States froze refugee admissions into the
country, stranding tens of thousands of refugees who had already been approved
to enter the country.

"The suspension impacts all communities," said Jamal al-Fakhouri, regional
director of the San Jose office of the IRC, an organization that has been
resettling refugees since 1933. "Many refugee families who live here and have
families overseas have been put on hold."

He cited the case of a family of 17 from Somalia living in a refugee camp in
Kenya. The family had been waiting for seven years to enter the country. Their
admission had been approved before Sept. 11, but their status is now in limbo.

"The children in this family who turn 18 will no longer be eligible for refugee
status because they will be considered adults and won't be able to emigrate with
their families," said Fakhouri. "Given the current environment, the chances of
emigrating any time soon are slim because Africa is not a priority, even in the
best of times."

Commissioner James W. Zigler of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
reiterated the agency's commitment to admitting 70,000 refugees during a Feb. 12
appearance before the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration.

Immigration officials are slowly resuming the process of interviewing refugees
who have applied to enter the country, according to INS spokesman Bill
Strasberger.

In November, the administration increased the Africa quota to 22,000. "When one
region is increased, another is decreased as hot spots around the world cool
down," said Fakhouri. "We would like to see numbers increase across the board."

Office aids thousands

Since the IRC opened its regional office in San Jose in 1979, it has resettled
24,000 refugees, primarily from Vietnam, Laos, Bosnia and Russia. Last year the
refugee resettlement program helped 440 refugees, mainly from Bosnia,
Afghanistan and East Africa, Iraqis and a handful of Armenian Christians from
Iran.

This time last year, IRC helped 400 refugees relocate in Santa Clara County. IRC
expects this number to be halved this year.

Resettlement groups say 10 more Afghan families are expected to be admitted
later this year.

The number of refugees allowed in the country has decreased over the past
decade. The 70,000 the Bush administration plans to admit this year is 10,000
fewer than last year.

"The U.S. is heading toward backing off from its commitments," Jensen said. "We
should keep our door open and keep a vital program going. We're built on
immigration. That's who we are."

Contact T.T. Nhu at tnhu@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7317.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 13, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Terrorists' visa paperwork arrives;
FLIGHT SCHOOL GETS DOCUMENTS ON TWO DEAD SEPT. 11 ATTACKERS

BYLINE: Adrian Sainz Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Six months after two terrorists died in the World Trade Center attack, the
Florida flight school where they trained has received their student-visa
approval forms from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Huffman Aviation received the paperwork Monday acknowledging the INS approvals
for Mohamed Atta, 33, of Egypt, and Marwan Al-Shehhi, 23, of the United Arab
Emirates.

An INS official, Russ Bergeron, said the agency had notified the men and the
school last summer about the approvals. He described the paperwork Huffman
received this week as "backup notification."

Atta and Al-Shehhi trained at Huffman in Venice, Fla., in July 2000, and were
aboard the separate flights that struck the World Trade Center towers.

The two initially entered the United States on visitor's visas but applied for
an M-1 student visa, given to immigrants attending U.S. technical schools.

The INS approved Atta's request in July 2001 and Al-Shehhi's request the
following month, Bergeron said.

"The important thing to recognize is the decisions to change their status were
made before Sept. 11, and at the time there was no information made available to
INS regarding these people and their link to terrorism," Bergeron said.

Both men were cleared to stay in the United States until Oct. 1, 2001, according
to the forms, which were provided to the Associated Press by Rudi Dekkers, owner
and president of the flight school.

"When they hit the buildings they were approved to be here," Dekkers said.

Bergeron attributed the embarrassing delay to a backlog of documents at a
paperwork-processing center in London, Ky. Foreign students are generally
allowed to study in the United States as long as they apply for student visas,
he said.

John Conyers, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, said the
notification was a sign of the Bush administration's "misguided focus in pursuit
of homeland security."

"I am astonished that while the INS is fixated on detaining and rounding up
countless Arab Americans without any justification, it has failed to take basic
steps to ensure that visas are not issued to known terrorists," said Conyers,
D-Mich.

U.S. authorities believe that Atta was aboard American Airlines Flight 11, which
struck the North Tower of the trade center, and that Al-Shehhi was aboard United
Airlines Flight 175, which struck the South Tower 15 minutes later.

Dekkers said the forms showed he had followed the law.

The forms, filled out by an assistant at Huffman, indicated that both men met
the English-language requirements to study at the school.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 15, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Proposed amnesty program could disappoint immigrants;
MANY FEAR THOUSANDS WILL BE LOCKED OUT

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words


A push to revive a federal program that would allow thousands of undocumented
immigrants to stay in the United States while applying for green cards could
actually shut out many of the people it aims to help.

Legislation, now on its way to the Senate, would give President Bush a platform
to tout his pro-immigration credentials when he meets with Mexican President
Vicente Fox next week.

But in an effort to avoid the rush to the altar that swept the country when the
same program was in effect last year, the bill requires immigrants to prove they
were married or sponsored by a U.S. employer before Aug. 15, 2001, in order to
qualify.

An estimated 200,000 immigrants who failed to apply for residency when the
four-month program was in effect early last year might benefit from the new
measure.

But others fear that the August deadline would exclude thousands of immigrants
who tied the knot with a U.S. citizen after that date or didn't seek sponsorship
from their employers because there was no program in place at the time.

"People are hoping against hope that this will be an answer to their prayers,
and it won't for a lot of people," said Doug Keegan of the Santa Cruz County
Immigration Project.

Confusion

His boss at Can Do Construction in San Jose told him last year the company would
sponsor Hernandez, the father of four U.S. citizens. But under the proposed
legislation, Hernandez is not eligible because his managers at the construction
firm did not file the necessary paperwork before the Aug. 15 deadline.

"I felt like this was my chance, one more opportunity," said Hernandez, 38, who
immigrated to California in 1982 from the border state of Sonora, Mexico. "It's
very difficult to keep up with the changes. It's all confusing."

Immigration lawyers say there are probably thousands of immigrants like
Hernandez who think they could be eligible for the program but are not. Others
fear swindlers will seek to capitalize on the confusion.

"I've had people coming in all week because of this," said San Jose immigration
attorney Carole Mesrobian. "They're saying they just got married last month. And
I'm saying I can't help them."

The current legislation would allow certain immigrants -- those who entered the
country illegally or overstayed their visas, for example -- to pay a $1,000 fine
and remain here while they seek permanent residency. It would suspend a
requirement that they leave the United States for up to 10 years and apply for
visas in their home country.

Congress first approved the legislation allowing undocumented immigrants to stay
in the United States in 1994, saying it didn't want to break up families. But
the law, known as 245(i), has always rested on shaky political ground. Congress
allowed the law to expire in 1997, then reinstated it briefly last year.

More than 400,000 immigrants nationwide poured into immigration offices during
last year's extension. During a four-month window that ended April 30, about
40,000 immigrants in the Bay Area applied. Many immigrants rushed to get married
just so they could qualify.

East San Jose resident Paty Guerrero is one of many who hopes for yet another
extension.

Guerrero's mother, 74-year-old Margarita Centurion of Mexico, had been making
regular trips between Mexico and San Jose on a tourist visa to help care for
Guerrero's 2-year-old grandson. The boy's single father, a U.S. Marine, was
called to active duty last month.

When her tourist visa expired last week, Centurion applied for an extension.
But, under a provision of the legislation dealing with children old enough to
sponsor their parents, she stayed in the United States rather than return to
Mexico and risk getting stuck there.

The new bill "will allow us to continue to the next phase of getting her
residency without her having to leave the country," Guerrero said. "This feels
great because we have always been law-abiding citizens, and it was very weird
having her going against the rules."

Others may not be so lucky.

Susana Sotelo, who became a citizen three years ago, and Eleazar Caranza, an
undocumented Mexican immigrant, hoped an extension of 245(i) would allow Caranza
to become a resident and, in turn, improve his wages. The two married in
December, long after the proposed August deadline.

"It makes me mad and sad at the same time," said Sotelo, 26, who recently moved
to Bakersfield from the Santa Cruz area. "I think they should make a different
law with fewer restrictions."

Differing views

"There will always be people who miss the deadlines," said Campos, of the
National Immigration Law Center. "The problem with this law is we always have
these brief periods, and people can't get married or get to an attorney in time.
Until we get something on a more permanent basis, we'll have these stragglers."

San Francisco immigration law attorney Carl Falstrom took a dimmer view, calling
the Aug. 15 deadline a "poison pill."

Falstrom said he expected to see few employment-based applications, for example,
because so few employers were willing to admit they were breaking the law by
sponsoring immigrants with questionable immigration status.

"The problem is the law did not support that type of sponsorship before now,"
Falstrom said. "There is a feeling among a lot of people that this is worse than
nothing at all."

Meanwhile, Hernandez, the San Jose day worker, said he will continue to search
for a way to legalize his status. As a young man, he didn't pay much attention
to immigration laws.

Now, with two teenage children and two toddlers -- all born in the United States
-- Hernandez wants to live permanently in San Jose as a legal resident.

He applied for residency under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986.
But for unknown reasons, his application was filed incorrectly, he said.

"I gave up then and just thought that I'd just continue working and support my
family," Hernandez said. "But now, with my kids growing, it's become more
important to me."

Mercury News Staff Writer Cecilia Kang contributed to this story. Contact
Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com or (415) 434-1018.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 16, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

National and Washington News in Brief

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 549 words


WASHINGTON, D.C.

Senior officials of INS removed from posts

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, reeling from the embarrassment of
mailing visa extensions this week to two dead Sept. 11 hijackers, announced
Friday a major management shake-up.

Michael Pearson, the head of all field operations and the agency's third-ranking
official, was relieved of his job and will be reassigned, a Justice Department
official said. The agency's director of international affairs, Jeffrey Weiss,
will also be reassigned.

In all, four senior officials responsible for immigration services, policies and
enforcement were removed from their posts, officials said.

Bush education efforts criticized in forum

Eight researchers from Texas and California warned Friday that President Bush's
new education efforts could harm Latinos and other minority children who often
score low on standardized tests.

The elaborate testing and accountability systems used in Texas, North Carolina
and Florida were the models for the assessment systems required under the
bipartisan No Child Left Behind Act, which Bush signed into law in January.

"State assessment systems such as the one in Texas are causing more harm than
good," said Angela Valenzuela, an associate professor of curriculum and
instruction at the University of Texas at Austin.

More than 100 congressional staff members attended the research forum moderated
by Valenzuela.

The forum featured researchers from the University of Texas, Rice University and
the University of California-Berkeley.

ILLINOIS

Secret evidence offered in suit by Islamic group

Federal lawyers will offer secret evidence in a lawsuit filed by a suburban
Chicago Islamic charity seeking to reverse a government order freezing its
assets.

In a court filing, government lawyers told U.S. District Judge Wayne Andersen
that documents, including an application to search the headquarters of the
Global Relief Foundation, contain classified national-security information and
would be filed in court under seal.

That would prevent Global Relief's attorneys from viewing the documents.

ARIZONA

Amateur astronomers discover new comet

Amateur stargazer Doug Snyder of Sierra Vista had spent days scanning the skies
with his 20-inch reflector telescope hoping to find something new when he
happened upon "a little gray smudge."

The little smudge proved to be a new comet.

The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams confirmed Tuesday that Snyder was
the first person to sight the comet Monday as it streaked through the
constellation Aquila in the heart of the Summer Milky Way.

A Japanese amateur astronomer, Shigeki Murakami, sighted the comet a few hours
later and is considered a co-discoverer of Comet Snyder-Murakami.

PENNSYLVANIA

Couple to renew vows after 77 married years

Respect each other's tastes, be congenial and don't belittle each other around
your friends. That's the advice for a lasting relationship from a couple who
have made their marriage work for 77 years.

Dalvin Shiner, 99, and his wife, Virginia, 100, were married on New Year's Day
1925.

The couple will renew their vows today on WHYY-TV Philadelphia, a public TV
station that crowned them the region's longest-married couple.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 19, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Troops assisting U.S. officials with searches, crowd control;
UNARMED GUARD MEMBERS BOLSTER BORDER SECURITY

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO (AP)


National Guard troops arrived Monday at California's border with Mexico to
temporarily assist federal authorities with security and crowd control.

The first wave of about 260 Guard members will assist Immigration and
Naturalization Service officers at the San Ysidro Port of Entry in San Diego and
the state's five other border crossings.

An additional 40 members will arrive later to work with Customs Service agents,
National Guard Lt. Col. Anne Humphreys said.

Customs and INS jointly handle security at the nation's borders.

About 700 National Guard members are being deployed this month at border points
around the United States.

The troops will not be armed at the border; they will work under the supervision
of INS and Customs agents, officials said. They are expected to remain for about
six months until the federal government hires additional inspectors to handle
increased security imposed after Sept. 11.

For more than 10 years, the National Guard has sent small contingents of troops
to the border in California to assist Customs Service agents with vehicle
searches and crowd control as part of anti-drug efforts.

The additional deployment of troops will free INS and Customs agents to conduct
more thorough checks on the thousands of people who cross the California border
each day, said Adele Fasano, the director of the INS district that includes San
Diego.

The deployment, officially dubbed "Operation Border Eagle," is part of the
largest activation of California National Guard troops in decades. The service
has placed more than 5,000 of its 21,000 troops on active status since Sept. 11.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 20, 2002 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

Citizenship ceremonies scheduled in April, May

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 394 words


Q I am interested in attending a citizenship ceremony. Where and when is the
next ceremony?

Jack ShannonA Staying in the United States beyond what was authorized is against
the law and could affect a visitor's ability to return to the United States for
a subsequent visit, or to immigrate here. At issue is not the visa but rather
the "duration of stay" authorized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
on the I-94 form, which is given to foreigners upon entry into the country.

Those who remain in the United States six months past their authorized stay, and
then leave the country, can be barred from returning for three years. Those who
stay more than a year beyond what is allowed and then leave can be barred for 10
years.

Doug Keegan of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project says you can petition
to extend your stay by requesting form I-539.

Q I own a college in the Bay Area. I have several potential foreign students who
wish to study with us. However, I need to provide them with an I-20 form. How
can I get those forms?

Colleen NollA Most au pairs enter the United States with J-1 visas. As such,
they have a prescribed amount of time to work here, and must return. From home,
she could apply for a tourist visa.

Q I entered the United States in July 2001 as an immigrant. The INS sent my
green card with my name not printed in full at the top of the card. My name,
however, is printed in full at the bottom of the card. Will this discrepancy
create any problems for me? J. Prakash Fremont

A People sometimes receive green cards with mistakes on them. The best thing to
do, says INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, is to visit your local full-service INS
office and file an I-90 form, along with two photos. There's no charge if your
need for a new green card is caused by the agency's error.

New visa requirement

Argentines traveling to the United States are now required to obtain temporary
visitor or business visas before departing. The U.S. Department of Justice made
the change recently in response to Argentina's economic collapse, which has
prompted many to flee the country. Those already in the United States do not
need a visa and may remain in the country for the period of time authorized on
their date of admission into the United States.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 20, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Citizenship ceremonies scheduled in April, May

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 394 words


Q I am interested in attending a citizenship ceremony. Where and when is the
next ceremony?

Jack ShannonA Staying in the United States beyond what was authorized is against
the law and could affect a visitor's ability to return to the United States for
a subsequent visit, or to immigrate here. At issue is not the visa but rather
the "duration of stay" authorized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
on the I-94 form, which is given to foreigners upon entry into the country.

Those who remain in the United States six months past their authorized stay, and
then leave the country, can be barred from returning for three years. Those who
stay more than a year beyond what is allowed and then leave can be barred for 10
years.

Doug Keegan of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project says you can petition
to extend your stay by requesting form I-539.

Q I own a college in the Bay Area. I have several potential foreign students who
wish to study with us. However, I need to provide them with an I-20 form. How
can I get those forms?

Colleen NollA Most au pairs enter the United States with J-1 visas. As such,
they have a prescribed amount of time to work here, and must return. From home,
she could apply for a tourist visa.

Q I entered the United States in July 2001 as an immigrant. The INS sent my
green card with my name not printed in full at the top of the card. My name,
however, is printed in full at the bottom of the card. Will this discrepancy
create any problems for me? J. Prakash Fremont

A People sometimes receive green cards with mistakes on them. The best thing to
do, says INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, is to visit your local full-service INS
office and file an I-90 form, along with two photos. There's no charge if your
need for a new green card is caused by the agency's error.

New visa requirement

Argentines traveling to the United States are now required to obtain temporary
visitor or business visas before departing. The U.S. Department of Justice made
the change recently in response to Argentina's economic collapse, which has
prompted many to flee the country. Those already in the United States do not
need a visa and may remain in the country for the period of time authorized on
their date of admission into the United States.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 20, 2002 Wednesday A1 EDITION

Citizenship ceremonies in April, May

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 394 words


Q I am interested in attending a citizenship ceremony. Where and when is the
next ceremony?

Jack ShannonA Staying in the United States beyond what was authorized is against
the law and could affect a visitor's ability to return to the United States for
a subsequent visit, or to immigrate here. At issue is not the visa but rather
the "duration of stay" authorized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
on the I-94 form, which is given to foreigners upon entry into the country.

Those who remain in the United States six months past their authorized stay, and
then leave the country, can be barred from returning for three years. Those who
stay more than a year beyond what is allowed and then leave can be barred for 10
years.

Doug Keegan of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project says you can petition
to extend your stay by requesting form I-539.

Q I own a college in the Bay Area. I have several potential foreign students who
wish to study with us. However, I need to provide them with an I-20 form. How
can I get those forms?

Colleen NollA Most au pairs enter the United States with J-1 visas. As such,
they have a prescribed amount of time to work here, and must return. From home,
she could apply for a tourist visa.

Q I entered the United States in July 2001 as an immigrant. The INS sent my
green card with my name not printed in full at the top of the card. My name,
however, is printed in full at the bottom of the card. Will this discrepancy
create any problems for me? J. Prakash Fremont

A People sometimes receive green cards with mistakes on them. The best thing to
do, says INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery, is to visit your local full-service INS
office and file an I-90 form, along with two photos. There's no charge if your
need for a new green card is caused by the agency's error.

New visa requirement

Argentines traveling to the United States are now required to obtain temporary
visitor or business visas before departing. The U.S. Department of Justice made
the change recently in response to Argentina's economic collapse, which has
prompted many to flee the country. Those already in the United States do not
need a visa and may remain in the country for the period of time authorized on
their date of admission into the United States.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 21, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Immigration tops agenda on Bush's Latin America trip

BYLINE: James Kuhnhenn Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Bush visits Latin America this week to focus on controlling
immigration, combating drugs and expanding trade, issues that have been
redefined in the aftermath of Sept. 11.

The brisk four-day, three-country tour, which begins today, aims to reassert
U.S. leadership in a hemisphere that is eager to get back on the president's
radar. The largely symbolic excursion will reunite Bush with Mexican President
Vicente Fox and showcase the fledgling democracies of Peru and El Salvador.

It could serve Bush well politically at home, where he has made a point of
courting Latino voters, the fastest-growing vote bloc in the country.

But he will travel relatively empty-handed. The Senate has yet to act on an
Andean trade agreement and on legislation that would tighten border security and
provide extended stays to thousands of undocumented immigrants, both key
initiatives aimed at Latin America that would have enhanced Bush's prestige
south of the border.

Still, administration officials and foreign diplomats say, Bush's meetings could
set the stage for significant breakthroughs on crucial regional issues such as
immigration, commerce and drug terrorism. The trip also comes as Latin America
is wrestling with domestic challenges, including slowing economies, rising
unemployment and lawlessness that has unnerved foreign investors.

As in so many things these days, Bush sees this trip through the prism of his
war on terrorism. That illuminates the foreign aid plan he will present Friday
in Monterrey, Mexico, to the International Conference on Financial Development.
It also colors immigration negotiations with Fox's government. And it alters the
Andean war on cocaine and narcotics trafficking, which the administration now
views as a broader war on guerrilla insurgencies, particularly in Colombia.

"This is what they would call in El Salvador a chapandongo -- basically, a stew
pot of issues," said Stephen Johnson, a former State Department official who's
now at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy-research center in
Washington.

Here's how Bush's trip is expected to unfold:

* Monterrey, Mexico. The president first will participate in the United Nations'
financial development conference, where he will submit his multibillion-dollar
plan for more foreign aid to countries that meet certain criteria on
democratization, open markets, and social improvements in health and education.
The plan, which in part aims to remove terrorist breeding grounds, calls for
annual increases in aid beginning in 2004 that would add $5 billion by 2006, for
a total of $15 billion a year, a nearly 50 percent increase over current levels.

After the conference, Bush will meet with Fox, whom he last entertained at his
first White House state dinner just days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
The meeting, which will be the eighth between the two friends, comes as U.S.
officials say relations between their countries are the warmest ever.

* Lima, Peru. Saturday, Bush will become the first U.S. president to visit Peru.
He plans to meet privately with President Alejandro Toledo, the democratically
elected successor to the authoritarian Alberto Fujimori, and to participate in
an Andean summit among leaders of Peru, Bolivia, Colombia and Ecuador. All are
expected to seek more U.S. financial and even military help in their war against
drug lords.

Colombian President Andres Pastrana has asked the United States to expand its
anti-drug mission in Colombia to help fight rebels in the country's 40-year
civil war. Bush has asked Congress for authority and money to help with the
guerrilla war as well as to work against drug traffickers. Some members of
Congress have reacted coolly to the idea.

Bush travels without the enhanced authority to negotiate trade deals that he has
asked Congress to give him. The Senate this week also delayed a vote renewing
the Andean Trade Preference Act, which gives the four Andean countries duty-free
access to the U.S. market for a variety of products.

* San Salvador, El Salvador. Bush will meet with President Francisco Flores and
have a working lunch with other Central American leaders. El Salvador, Central
America's third-largest economy, has emerged as a triumph of democracy after its
bloody civil war in the 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 22, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Bush, Fox to discuss tightening border;
NEW U.S. ASSISTANCE HEADING TO MEXICO

BYLINE: James Kuhnhenn Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico


President Bush and Mexican President Vicente Fox are set to announce a plan
today that would tighten security along the 2,000-mile border. Bush will also
announce about $30 million in new aid for regions of Mexico that have been the
source of illegal emigration to the United States.

Their summit in this dusty northern industrial city, coming after the close of
the United Nations' weeklong International Conference on Financing for
Development, will be short on breakthroughs for contentious issues such as
Mexico's push to legitimize the status of Mexican workers in the United States.

Instead, the two countries will boost border security while adopting
technologies to help speed the flow of legitimate trade and immigration. Bush
called for additional spending on high-tech border crossings Thursday while in
El Paso, Texas.

The president toured a commercial cargo dock at El Paso's Bridge of the
Americas, where advanced X-ray equipment can scan a Mexican semi in about six
minutes before sending it into U.S. highways.

By kicking off a Latin American tour with a border security event, Bush
underscored his administration's insistence that expanded migration and tough
law enforcement are inseparable.

Bush has asked Congress for $11 billion for border security in his 2003 budget.
It includes $380 million for the Immigration and Naturalization Service to build
a modern "entry-exit" system.

Bush asked Congress on Thursday for an additional $27 billion in emergency money
for this fiscal year. The amount includes $5 billion for airports and borders.

"On the one hand, we want the legal commerce, the people who travel back and
forth on a daily basis, the brothers and sisters on both sides of the border . .
. to be able to do so in an efficient and easy way," he said.

"On the other hand, we want to use our technology to weed out the people we
don't want in our country -- the terrorist, the coyotes, those who prey on
innocent lives."

Bush's signal earlier this week that he would announce $30 million in new aid
for rural areas is aimed at strengthening the bilateral Partnership for
Prosperity program, which pools government resources from both countries to
create jobs in Mexico. The long-term goal is to give Mexicans from poorer
regions an incentive to seek jobs at home, easing the bilateral strain caused by
illegal immigration. Mexican workers in the United States sent more than $9
billion in remittances to Mexico last year.

Lost in the headlines of today's summit, however, is how much the U.S.-Mexico
relationship has matured over the past few years. For decades, the two countries
shared a border but deeply distrusted each other.

"It's never been this good," Jeffrey Davidow, the U.S. ambassador to Mexico,
said in an assessment of relations. "At the upper levels of government, there
are people deadly serious and willing to work with us."

Ambassadors typically say nice things about their host countries. But
politicians and independent analysts echo Davidow's upbeat assessment.

Roderic Ai Camp, author of numerous books about Mexico and a professor at
California's Claremont McKenna College, said proof of the strengthening
relationship is that immigration reform stayed in the bilateral agenda despite
the Sept. 11 attacks.

Days before the attacks, Bush and Fox agreed to start mapping a common strategy
to resolve how to legalize an estimated 3 million undocumented Mexicans in the
United States. Fox suggests a guest-worker visa for Mexican immigrants that
would give legal status to Mexicans who cross the border illegally to find work.

The terrorist attacks sidelined reform as the United States began reassessing
domestic security. Even so, the House of Representatives recently passed a
measure allowing undocumented Mexicans to stay in the United States while they
applied for permanent residency, and both presidents today will continue
narrowing differences on immigration issues.

Knight Ridder correspondent Kevin G. Hall and Mercury News wire services
contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 27, 2002 Wednesday F1 EDITION

Tuberculosis cases rise slightly in state;
SANTA CLARA COUNTY REPORTS 10% DECLINE

BYLINE: Karen de Sa Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words


Tuberculosis infections rose in California last year for the first time in eight
years, with cases jumping 70 percent in San Mateo County in 2001.

The Bay Area had mixed results in combating the infectious disease; cases rose
in five counties, while dropping in others.

TB cases in San Mateo County increased from 46 to 78 infections, while Santa
Clara County reported a 10 percent decline, according to a recently released
state Department of Health Services report.

A total of 3,332 cases were reported in the state in 2001, slightly more than
the 3,297 reported in 2000. Infections among Latinos increased 5 percent, and
among Pacific Islanders rose 2 percent.

Tuberculosis is transmitted when someone with an active case coughs or talks,
and requires a minimum of six months' treatment on multiple antibiotics.

In San Mateo County, the increase does not reflect an outbreak, said Sam
Stebbins, the TB controller for the public health department. The county is
still within its five-year average range of 73 cases per year, Stebbins said.

Tuberculosis is most often found among immigrants, who contract the disease
before arriving in the United States.

Before moving to the United States, would-be immigrants must have a chest X-ray
in their home country, and active cases of TB must be treated before a permanent
visa is granted.

But in immigrant-rich California, latent cases are a more difficult problem to
solve. After someone is infected with tuberculosis, the microbes can live for
years in the lungs without causing symptoms.

Contact Karen de Sa at kdesa@sjmercury.com or (650) 366-0174.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      March 28, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Four arrested in citizenship masquerade;
IMMIGRANTS PAID UP TO $25,000 EACH TO PARTICIPATE IN PHONY CEREMONY

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES (AP)


Immigrants who recited the Pledge of Allegiance, took a citizenship oath and
answered questions about American history were victims of a scam that cost them
as much as $25,000 each, federal agents said.

Four people were arrested in connection with the scheme that investigators say
involved an elaborate fake naturalization ceremony complete with a person in a
black robe posing as a judge.

The "judge" didn't even know the words to the Pledge of Allegiance, according to
a search warrant affidavit filed in connection with the arrests.

"It was quite an audacious scheme," Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Cowan said.
"I am not aware of any masquerade this extensive."

The alleged ringleader, Elzbieta Malgorzata Bugajska, is a native of Poland
suspected of masquerading as an immigration consultant named Jerry Ann Mitchell.
The real Mitchell died as an infant in Texas in 1943, decades before Bugajska
assumed her identity, authorities said.

Bugajska, 50, of Los Angeles was arrested Tuesday with John Patrick Bradley, 56,
of Los Angeles, Yolanda Miel Lubiano, 62, of Sun Valley and Lorena Velasquez
Garcia, 39, of South Gate.

Each was charged with one count of mail fraud. Bugajska and Bradley were charged
with impersonating federal judges, Bugajska was charged with using a falsely
obtained passport and Garcia was charged with accessing a government computer
with intent to defraud.

Bugajska was ordered held without bond Tuesday, and Garcia and Lubiano were
released on bonds of $25,000 and $20,000, respectively. A preliminary hearing
for Bugajska was set for April 9, and for Garcia and Lubiano April 15. A bond
hearing for Bradley was pending.

Bugajska allegedly sold genuine Social Security cards for $750 to immigrants who
had been steered to her by associates, authorities said. Garcia, a 15-year
employee of the Social Security Administration, allegedly provided the cards and
shared in the profits.

Bradley allegedly posed as a judge during at least one bogus ceremony, on Oct.
22, 2000, at Lubiano's house.

"Bradley 'swore in' the aliens as citizens, but while reciting the Pledge of
Allegiance forgot the words and had to be assisted by an alien," the affidavit
says.

The complaint alleges the ring defrauded at least 25 immigrants, including 14
who attended the bogus citizenship ceremony. Prosecutors believe there are many
more victims, and the investigation is ongoing.

Most of the victims are Koreans and Filipinos. Some of the Filipinos allegedly
were lured by Lubiano, a native of the Philippines.

"This is a scheme that preyed on the hopes of immigrants who wanted to become
U.S. citizens," Cowan said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       March 29, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Gap widens among owners;
IMMIGRANT LEVELS FALLING BEHIND

BYLINE: Sue McAllister Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words


The gap in homeownership rates between native-born Americans and immigrants grew
in the 1980s and 1990s to 20 percentage points, according to a survey released
Thursday.

But the study also found that the longer immigrants stay in the United States,
the more likely they are to become homeowners. The report was done by the
Research Institute for Housing America, an independent arm of the Mortgage
Bankers Association of America.

While 67 percent of native-born households owned their own homes in 2000, 47
percent of all immigrant households were homeowners. That difference of 20
percentage points was up from a gap of about 15 percentage points in 1990 and
from 12 points in 1980, said the study by Professor George Borjas of the Kennedy
School of Public Policy and Harvard University.

The gap increased, according to the study, because of the growth in the number
of immigrants and the rise in the percentage of poorer immigrants.

Over time, the homeownership gap narrows as a larger percentage of immigrants
become homeowners. For example, only 19.5 percent of immigrants who came to the
U.S. from 1975 to 1979 owned a home in 1980. In that same group, about 57
percent were homeowners by 2000.

'Important influence'

The study, drawn from data collected by the Census Bureau, "clearly points out
that foreign-born households will have an important influence in many housing
and mortgage markets in the coming years, as they are assimilated into
homeownership," said Doug Duncan, chief economist at the MBAA.

Nearly 1 million legal immigrants came to the United States each year during the
1990s, and the mortgage group estimates that immigrants now here could create
demand for 4 million or more new homes over the next 20 years.

"We have a lot of anecdotal evidence that immigrants aspire for homeownership as
much if not more than mainstream America, especially since homeownership is not
possible in many Third World countries because of lending practices many banks
follow," said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute in
Southern California. Pachon is currently working on a study of statewide housing
affordability and the Latino population.

The passage of time is not the only factor in how many immigrants become home
owners. Other factors include where immigrants choose to live and conditions in
the local real estate markets.

Settling in "ethnic enclaves" with earlier immigrants of the same national
origin significantly increases the probability that immigrants will become home
owners, the study found.

In the San Jose area in 2000, 71 percent of native-born households were
homeowners, compared with 50 percent of foreign-born households.

According to data from the Census Bureau, the foreign-born population of Santa
Clara County in 1990 was about 23 percent. In 2000, it was about 35 percent.

Different in San Jose

In San Jose and some other U.S. cities, the percentage of Hispanic immigrants
who own homes is much lower than the percentage of immigrants taken as a whole.
In San Jose, 50 percent of immigrant households own their homes vs. 27 percent
of Hispanic immigrant households.

The study suggests that part of the reason is that immigrants from Mexico, El
Salvador and the Dominican Republic, for example, have less education and lower
household income than immigrants from many other countries.

But even factors such as income and education cannot fully explain the
differences in home ownership rates by country of origin, writes study author
Borjas.

"It is plausible that such factors as discrimination against particular national
origin groups, or differences in the way that the immigrant population is
self-selected from the source country's population could be responsible for the
remaining differences."

Crisand Giles, executive director of the Home Builders Association of Northern
California in the South Bay, said local builders are aware that immigrant home
buyers will be an important part of their customer base in years to come. But
the demand for housing far outstrips supply among all residents, she said.

"We don't break out the population by immigrant or native-born, we look at it as
a whole because the imbalance is so great" between the robust job creation in
Silicon Valley since 1990 and the relative lack of new housing. "We don't have
the luxury to look at certain populations, we're just trying to get it approved
and get it built."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To view the complete survey, go to www.housingamerica.org/newreport.html

Contact Sue McAllister at smcallister@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5833.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 3, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

INS office in S.J. to hold forum to answer questions

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 527 words


The San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service will have an
open forum on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to noon. While details about individual cases
will not be provided at this event, a panel of INS officers will be available to
answer questions such as how long you should wait before following up on
applications, which applications can be filed by mail and how to have forms
mailed to you. The forum will be held at the San Jose office's community
outreach room, #160, 1887 Monterey Road in San Jose.

Q Eleven years ago, we adopted a boy from an orphanage in South America. He has
an alien registration card but we never applied for his citizenship. My
understanding is that a new law was passed this past year that automatically
gave him his citizenship. Is this true? If so, is there any paperwork I need to
do in order to complete this process?

A The Child Citizenship Act of 2000, which became effective Feb. 27, 2001, did
make the process easier, said Doug Keegan of the Santa Cruz County Immigration
Project. In your case, your child automatically became a U.S. citizen on that
date. To obtain documentation of your child's U.S. citizenship, you can apply
for a U.S. passport for him, or you can file an N-643 along with the fee of $145
with your local district INS, most likely San Jose or San Francisco.

Q My wife is a naturalized U.S. citizen. About a year ago, she petitioned a
relative to migrate to the United States and, along with the application, she
submitted her original naturalization certificate, as instructed. Now, without
the original certificate (we assumed it was unlawful to make a copy), she finds
it hard to obtain a U.S. passport, etc. We wrote to the INS, requesting return
of the original certificate, to no avail. We are planning to travel soon, and
without a valid passport there's nothing we can do. It costs $155 to request a
new certificate from the INS and could take up to one year to receive.

A When people are without their certificates of naturalization, through loss or
for other reasons, the INS strongly suggests that they file for a replacement
certificate as soon as possible, says INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery. Since the
San Francisco district doesn't process alien petitions, the INS can't help you
locate your wife's certificate. It's a good idea to send a photocopy of the
certificate. It's not illegal to copy the certificate for reasons of
petitioning. People who need a missing naturalization certificate should file
the N-565, and also file a G-639 ($2) Freedom of Information Act Request for a
letter from the INS testifying that the person is a citizen. The letter should
arrive promptly. The actual replacement certificate can take more than a year to
process.

Q I applied for my green card through my mother, a green-card holder, in May
1992. I was unmarried and older than 21 at that time. Then I moved to Pakistan
in 1995. I never received any responses from the INS. Meanwhile, I got married
and now I am here on an H-1B visa. Can I still trace my file and get my green
card through it? If you get married, does your green card application become
invalid?

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        April 8, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Researchers uncover clues to Angel Island's grim past;
RESTORATION EXAMINES IMMIGRATION STATION

BYLINE: Deborah Kong Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 556 words


As their ships steamed through the Golden Gate in the early 20th century,
Chinese immigrants dreamed of opportunities awaiting them on Gold Mountain, as
they called America.

But instead of docking at San Francisco's fabled shores, they were shuttled onto
ferries and sent to Angel Island in the middle of San Francisco Bay. At the
immigration station there, dreams of paradise quickly clashed with reality.

Many languished within a few miles of their destination for weeks, sometimes
carving melancholy poems into the walls of rough barracks while their fate hung
in limbo. In the station's earliest days, the Chinese had to use a segregated
entrance to the hospital.

Details of Angel Island's difficult past -- like the separate entrance and a new
trove of poems -- are being uncovered by researchers examining the site and
sifting through the National Archives and National Park Service records as part
of a restoration project.

Their discoveries are adding texture to survivors' stories of discrimination and
grim circumstances at the immigration station, which operated from 1910 to 1940.

Deeper story

Toy's group, founded by descendants of Chinese who were detained on the island,
is hoping to tell a more nearly complete story by restoring the station to the
days when it was the Ellis Island of the West, the main gateway into the United
States for immigrants journeying across the Pacific.

The foundation is at the beginning of an estimated $32 million, eight-year
project with the California State Parks and National Park Service. A team of
historians, architects and others is combing through archives and probing the
barracks, hospital and heating plant for clues to the past.

About 1 million immigrants were processed on Angel Island, far fewer than the 12
million who went through Ellis Island between 1892 and 1954.

But unlike Ellis, where immigrants usually waited three to five hours to be
processed, the average stay for Chinese immigrants on Angel Island was two to
three weeks.

While relatively few who made it to Angel Island were turned away, the wait and
uncertainty could be agonizing.

"The kind of interrogation, the kind of treatment, is so abusive and so inhumane
that it's just no comparison" to the Ellis Island experience, said Ling-Chi
Wang, director of Asian American Studies at the University of
California-Berkeley.

Made journey at 11

When Wong arrived in San Francisco in June 1934, he and about 30 other Chinese
were ferried to Angel Island and put in barracks. In a room of about 100 men,
Wong slept on the top mattress of a triple-decker bunk bed.

The doors were locked, armed guards patrolled the halls and chain link fences
covered the windows. Detainees were allowed out only for meals, and to exercise
in a dirt area surrounded by a 12-foot fence topped with barbed wire.

"Time goes very slowly because everybody is just waiting for that
interrogation," said Wong, who was detained for about five weeks. "We were
treated very harsh, more like criminals than immigrants."

Wong, now 80, remembers the Chinese were confined to separate dining halls and
sleeping quarters.

After the hospital was remodeled sometime between 1911 and 1912, traces of the
segregated entrance were erased.

More information is available at www.aiisf.org and www.angelisland.org

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 19, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants link valley to global economy;
REPORT UNDERLINES FOREIGN CONNECTION

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words


Silicon Valley immigrants play a significant role in building the global
economy, according to a report being released today.

Local immigrant professionals maintain extensive ties to their homes, bringing
business opportunities, technology and networks that link Silicon Valley to
urban centers in countries like India, China and Taiwan, according to a study by
the non-profit Public Policy Institute of California.

"This is very unique to Silicon Valley. You don't see this happening on a large
scale across the U.S.," said AnnaLee Saxenian, the study's author and expert on
immigrant entrepreneurship in the Bay Area. "Places that were peripheral not so
long ago are now closely connected to the world center of technology here."

The study is based on a survey of 2,300 immigrants drawn from the memberships of
17 leading professional associations in Silicon Valley. The survey was conducted
online. Nearly 90 percent of those who participated in the study were immigrants
from India, China and Taiwan.

The study found:

* Eighty-two percent of those surveyed said they share information about
technology with colleagues in their native countries. And 80 percent pass along
information about jobs and business opportunities in America.

* Forty percent reported helping to arrange business contracts in their
homelands. More than a quarter advised or consulted for companies there, while
nearly 20 percent have invested their own money in start-ups or venture funds in
their homelands.

* Indian professionals cited the availability of skilled labor and the low cost
of labor as major reasons for doing business in their native country, while
Chinese immigrants said access to the market was the main reason for
establishing business ties to China.

The findings debunk common perceptions about globalization, said Saxenian, who
teaches regional economic development at University of California-Berkeley.

"When we talk about globalization, we think about multinational corporations not
small start-ups," she said. "The flow of information of people and capital
between Silicon Valley and these places is quite high."

Of the 600 entrepreneurs in the survey, half have set up subsidiaries, joint
ventures, sub-contracting or other business operations in their homelands.

For venture capitalists like Mark Stevens at Sequoia Capital, U.S. start-ups
that have business relationships in their home countries are attractive
investments. "They'll use their alumni relationships as a recruiting pipleline
and set-up subsidiaries to take advantage of talent," said Stevens, a general
partner. "And it's much cheaper."

The transnational business networks also have supplied Sequoia with investment
opportunities. "We're actually now financing some young relatives or friends of
folks we financed five years ago," he said.

Jessie Singh, an immigrant from Punjab, India, is finally achieving his dream of
doing business in his home country. Singh came to the United States in 1986 and
now runs a Milpitas tech company, BJS Group. He recently acquired a fiber optics
company and plans to build a manufacturing facility in Haryana, India, and to
hire 100 local residents.

Singh is vying to be the first manufacturer of fiber optical switches in India.
Singh thinks his background will give him an edge in India.

"You understand the local language, their customs and behaviors," said Singh.
"You have connections, family and friends. You understand how the system works.
You have a little more power."

Singh last year arranged for the states of Punjab and California to be "sister
states" to pave the way for more trade between them. He's currently working on
an agreement between San Jose State University and Punjab Agriculture University
to create an international business program at the Punjabi school modeled on the
SJSU curriculum.

"We grew up there. We know what it's like to have limited resources," said
Singh. "Here the opportunities are limitless. That's what I'm trying to create
on some level in India."

The study by the Public Policy Institute also found that three of four Indian
and Chinese immigrant professionals would consider starting businesses in their
native countries in the future.

Despite political tensions, nearly a third reported meeting with their home
country's government officials, even in China. Bobby Chao, an entrepreneur who
immigrated from Taiwan nearly 30 years ago, is a board director of Monte Jade, a
business networking association founded by Taiwanese immigrants in Silicon
Valley. This weekend, he's leading the first Monte Jade delegation to China.

The 30-person group, half of whom are Taiwanese-American immigrants, will visit
many of the largest corporate titans in China. They'll also meet with Chinese
officials to talk about importing U.S. entrepreneurship, investment and
technology into China.

"You have to go beyond the political platform," said Chao, who is also chairman
of DragonVenture, a Palo-Alto venture capital firm looking to invest $60 million
over the next five years in Chinese companies. "The political platform is always
there. You can't ignore it, but people close an eye (to politics) when we talk
about business and economic relationships."

The business ties that immigrants establish between Silicon Valley and their
homelands not only stimulate economic changes, but also might help cultivate a
new generation of entrepreneurs.

"Because information travels so quickly, people in India are very aware of the
successes of Indians here," said Saxenian. "There's a tremendous amount of
confidence in India that it can be involved in the world economy in a very
successful way. In rural areas, young people now want to work with computers and
be a part of the information technology industry."

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 20, 2002 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Screeners press for citizenship;
AIRPORT WORKERS URGE INS TO EXPEDITE PROCESS

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words


Bay Area airport baggage screeners who must become U.S. citizens to save their
jobs are scrambling to beat a looming deadline even as support for shortcuts is
shrinking.

Screener advocates gathered at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in
San Francisco on Friday to demand a fast-track citizenship process after weeks
of conflicting messages from federal officials.

"Our end goal is to eliminate the citizenship requirement," said Daz Lamparas,
spokesman for the Service Employees International Union Local 790, which
represents screeners at San Francisco Airport. "But at least the people who are
qualified should be expedited."

Of the 600 screeners at San Francisco Airport who are not U.S. citizens, 150
have a chance of becoming citizens by June, when new federal job requirements
are expected to kick in. The naturalization process often takes many months.

Screeners have secured the support of powerful California politicians such as
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco. On Friday,
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said he was working closely with the INS
to speed up the naturalization process for qualified screeners.

But INS officials in San Francisco said a decision had been made at their
Washington, D.C., headquarters not to take shortcuts for screeners. And
President Bush this month defended the citizenship requirement in federal court.

The Department of Transportation must hire a federal workforce of 60,000
screeners by Nov. 19 to comply with a post-Sept. 11 law to tighten airport
security.

San Francisco International Airport is near the top of the list of U.S. airports
making the transition from private to public screeners, and it could happen as
early as June, according to the Transportation Security Administration. Airports
in Chicago and Baltimore have already begun the process.

"Sooner rather than later," security administration spokesman Paul Turk said
Friday, referring to San Francisco Airport.

Experienced workers

At the San Francisco and San Jose airports, an estimated 800 screeners are legal
U.S. residents but not citizens.

That worries airport officials, who will lose experienced employees, and
screeners, who will be left without necessary credentials.

"We'll have no second chance to apply," said San Francisco Airport screener
Erlinda Valencia, who stood outside the INS building in downtown San Francisco
on Friday surrounded by protesters carrying signs that read, "Citizenship for
airport screeners now!" Feinstein and Pelosi have sent regrets about attending
for a similar event planned Sunday.

Efforts by screeners to challenge the citizenship requirement on two other
fronts -- in Congress and in federal court -- are facing difficult hurdles.

* On Capitol Hill, Feinstein is working to garner Republican support for her
bill that would allow qualified, legal residents to continue working as
screeners while their applications are processed. Feinstein spokesman Jim Hock
said Friday: "It's going to be an uphill battle, but we're going to keep at it."

* In federal court this month, the Bush administration defended the requirement
in response to a lawsuit filed in January by the American Civil Liberties Union
on behalf of screeners from the San Francisco and Los Angeles airports.

"It assures a certain level of loyalty and commitment to the United States that
one would expect of a federal official performing a public function critical to
the protection of American lives," attorneys from the Department of Justice
said, requesting that a federal judge dismiss the case.

A hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles is set for June.

Screeners argue that citizenship is unrelated to security. The military,
including National Guard members who patrol U.S. airports, does not have a
citizenship requirement.

They say removing experienced screeners will hurt, not enhance, security.

"To replace them with inexperienced people just doesn't make sense," said the
Rev. Nicholas Borzghol, whose church is part of the Bay Area Organizing
Committee which set up the event outside the INS office.

Confusion over policy

Screeners also say they're getting mixed signals from government officials.

During a visit to San Jose Friday, Mineta said he has been urging the INS to
expedite citizenship applications from employed screeners.

"We are working closely with the INS to help folks who applied for citizenship,"
Mineta said during a visit to announce a federal child-safety seat grant. "We're
asking the INS to help get people naturalized."

But Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco INS office, said a
decision has been made at the headquarters level "not to expedite this group
request."

In recent months, Rummery said her office has tried to help the screeners,
holding several meetings at the airport to pass out applications and explain the
process. The INS has also reduced its backlog to a waiting period of six to nine
months.

But to screeners such as Valencia, six months is too long. Valencia applied for
citizenship in January and is still waiting to hear back from the INS for an
interview.

Airports worried

Airport officials don't want to lose employees like Valencia, who has put in 14
years at San Francisco Airport. In a letter to Mineta last month, airport
officials expressed "strong concerns" about the transportation department's
"aggressive schedule."

"We don't think it's fair, but it's federal law," airport spokesman Ron Wilson
said. "We've been trying to convince them, but we haven't had a whole lot of
encouragement."

Mercury News Staff Writer John Woolfolk contributed to this report. Contact Ann
E. Marimow at amarimow@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7531.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 20, 2002 Saturday F1 EDITION

Airport screeners press INS to grant citizenship

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words


Bay Area airport baggage screeners who must become U.S. citizens to save their
jobs are scrambling to beat a looming deadline even as support for shortcuts is
shrinking.

Screener advocates gathered at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in
San Francisco on Friday to demand a fast-track citizenship process after weeks
of conflicting messages from federal officials.

"Our end goal is to eliminate the citizenship requirement," said Daz Lamparas,
spokesman for the Service Employees International Union Local 790, which
represents screeners at San Francisco Airport. "But at least the people who are
qualified should be expedited."

Of the 600 screeners at San Francisco Airport who are not U.S. citizens, 150
have a chance of becoming citizens by June, when new federal job requirements
are expected to kick in. The naturalization process often takes many months.

Screeners have secured the support of powerful California politicians such as
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco. On Friday,
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said he was working closely with the INS
to speed up the naturalization process for qualified screeners.

But INS officials in San Francisco said a decision had been made at their
Washington, D.C., headquarters not to take shortcuts for screeners. And
President Bush this month defended the citizenship requirement in federal court.

The Department of Transportation must hire a federal workforce of 60,000
screeners by Nov. 19 to comply with a post-Sept. 11 law to tighten airport
security.

San Francisco International Airport is near the top of the list of U.S. airports
making the transition from private to public screeners, and it could happen as
early as June, according to the Transportation Security Administration.

Airports in Chicago and Baltimore have already begun the process.

"Sooner rather than later," security administration spokesman Paul Turk said
Friday, referring to San Francisco Airport.

At the San Francisco and San Jose airports, an estimated 800 screeners are legal
U.S. residents but not citizens.

That worries airport officials, who will lose experienced employees, and
screeners, who will be left without necessary credentials.

"We'll have no second chance to apply," said San Francisco Airport screener
Erlinda Valencia, who stood outside the INS building in downtown San Francisco
on Friday surrounded by protesters carrying signs that read, "Citizenship for
airport screeners now!" Feinstein and Pelosi have sent regrets about attending
for a similar event planned Sunday.

Uphill battle

Efforts by screeners to challenge the citizenship requirement on two other
fronts -- in Congress and in federal court -- are facing difficult hurdles.

* On Capitol Hill, Feinstein is working to garner Republican support for her
bill that would allow qualified, legal residents to continue working as
screeners while their applications are processed. Feinstein spokesman Jim Hock
said Friday: "It's going to be an uphill battle, but we're going to keep at it."

* In federal court this month, the Bush administration defended the requirement
in response to a lawsuit filed in January by the American Civil Liberties Union
on behalf of screeners from the San Francisco and Los Angeles airports.

"It assures a certain level of loyalty and commitment to the United States that
one would expect of a federal official performing a public function critical to
the protection of American lives," attorneys from the Department of Justice
said, requesting that a federal judge dismiss the case.

A hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles is set for June.

Screeners argue that citizenship is unrelated to security. The military,
including National Guard members who patrol U.S. airports, does not have a
citizenship requirement.

They say removing experienced screeners will hurt, not enhance, security.

"To replace them with inexperienced people just doesn't make sense," said the
Rev. Nicholas Borzghol, whose church is part of the Bay Area Organizing
Committee which set up the event outside the INS office.

Confusion over policy

Screeners also say they're getting mixed signals from government officials.

During a visit to San Jose Friday, Mineta said he has been urging the INS to
expedite citizenship applications from employed screeners.

"We are working closely with the INS to help folks who applied for citizenship,"
Mineta said during a visit to announce a federal child-safety seat grant. "We're
asking the INS to help get people naturalized."

But Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco INS office, said a
decision has been made at the headquarters level "not to expedite this group
request."

Six months too long

In recent months, Rummery said her office has tried to help the screeners,
holding several meetings at the airport to pass out applications and explain the
process. The INS has also reduced its backlog to a waiting period of six to nine
months.

But to screeners such as Valencia, six months is too long. Valencia applied for
citizenship in January and is still waiting to hear back from the INS for an
interview.

Airport officials don't want to lose employees like Valencia, who has put in 14
years at San Francisco Airport. In a letter to Mineta last month, airport
officials expressed "strong concerns" about the Transportation Department's
"aggressive schedule."

"We don't think it's fair, but it's federal law," airport spokesman Ron Wilson
said. "We've been trying to convince them, but we haven't had a whole lot of
encouragement."

Mercury News Staff Writer John Woolfolk contributed to this report. Contact Ann
E. Marimow at amarimow@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7531.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 20, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Screeners press for citizenship;
AIRPORT WORKERS URGE INS TO EXPEDITE PROCESS

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words


Bay Area airport baggage screeners who must become U.S. citizens to save their
jobs are scrambling to beat a looming deadline even as support for shortcuts is
shrinking.

Screener advocates gathered at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in
San Francisco on Friday to demand a fast-track citizenship process after weeks
of conflicting messages from federal officials.

"Our end goal is to eliminate the citizenship requirement," said Daz Lamparas,
spokesman for the Service Employees International Union Local 790, which
represents screeners at San Francisco Airport. "But at least the people who are
qualified should be expedited."

Of the 600 screeners at San Francisco Airport who are not U.S. citizens, 150
have a chance of becoming citizens by June, when new federal job requirements
are expected to kick in. The naturalization process often takes many months.

Screeners have secured the support of powerful California politicians such as
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco. On Friday,
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said he was working closely with the INS
to speed up the naturalization process for qualified screeners.

But INS officials in San Francisco said a decision had been made at their
Washington, D.C., headquarters not to take shortcuts for screeners. And
President Bush this month defended the citizenship requirement in federal court.

60,000 screeners

The Department of Transportation must hire a federal workforce of 60,000
screeners by Nov. 19 to comply with a post-Sept. 11 law to tighten airport
security.

San Francisco International Airport is near the top of the list of U.S. airports
making the transition from private to public screeners, and it could happen as
early as June, according to the Transportation Security Administration. Airports
in Chicago and Baltimore have already begun the process.

"Sooner rather than later," security administration spokesman Paul Turk said
Friday, referring to San Francisco Airport.

At the San Francisco and San Jose airports, an estimated 800 screeners are legal
U.S. residents but not citizens.

That worries airport officials, who will lose experienced employees, and
screeners, who will be left without necessary credentials.

"We'll have no second chance to apply," said San Francisco Airport screener
Erlinda Valencia, who stood outside the INS building in downtown San Francisco
on Friday surrounded by protesters carrying signs that read, "Citizenship for
airport screeners now!" Feinstein and Pelosi have sent regrets about attending
for a similar event planned Sunday.

Efforts by screeners to challenge the citizenship requirement on two other
fronts -- in Congress and in federal court -- are facing difficult hurdles.

* On Capitol Hill, Feinstein is working to garner Republican support for her
bill that would allow qualified, legal residents to continue working as
screeners while their applications are processed. Feinstein spokesman Jim Hock
said Friday: "It's going to be an uphill battle, but we're going to keep at it."

* In federal court this month, the Bush administration defended the requirement
in response to a lawsuit filed in January by the American Civil Liberties Union
on behalf of screeners from the San Francisco and Los Angeles airports.

"It assures a certain level of loyalty and commitment to the United States that
one would expect of a federal official performing a public function critical to
the protection of American lives," attorneys from the Department of Justice
said, requesting that a federal judge dismiss the case.

A hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles is set for June.

Different rules

Screeners argue that citizenship is unrelated to security. The military,
including National Guard members who patrol U.S. airports, does not have a
citizenship requirement.

They say removing experienced screeners will hurt, not enhance, security.

"To replace them with inexperienced people just doesn't make sense," said the
Rev. Nicholas Borzghol, whose church is part of the Bay Area Organizing
Committee which set up the event outside the INS office.

Screeners also say they're getting mixed signals from government officials.

During a visit to San Jose Friday, Mineta said he has been urging the INS to
expedite citizenship applications from employed screeners.

"We are working closely with the INS to help folks who applied for citizenship,"
Mineta said during a visit to announce a federal child-safety seat grant. "We're
asking the INS to help get people naturalized."

But Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco INS office, said a
decision has been made at the headquarters level "not to expedite this group
request."

In recent months, Rummery said her office has tried to help the screeners,
holding several meetings at the airport to pass out applications and explain the
process. The INS has also reduced its backlog to a waiting period of six to nine
months.

But to screeners such as Valencia, six months is too long. Valencia applied for
citizenship in January and is still waiting to hear back from the INS for an
interview.

Airports worried

Airport officials don't want to lose employees like Valencia, who has put in 14
years at San Francisco Airport. In a letter to Mineta last month, airport
officials expressed "strong concerns" about the Transportation Department's
"aggressive schedule."

"We don't think it's fair, but it's federal law," airport spokesman Ron Wilson
said. "We've been trying to convince them, but we haven't had a whole lot of
encouragement."

Mercury News Staff Writer John Woolfolk contributed to this report. Contact Ann
E. Marimow at amarimow@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7531.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 20, 2002 Saturday A1 EDITION

Screeners pressing for help from INS;
AIRPORT WORKERS SEEK EXPEDITED CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Ann E. Marimow Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words


Bay Area airport baggage screeners who must become U.S. citizens to save their
jobs are scrambling to beat a looming deadline even as support for shortcuts is
shrinking.

Screener advocates gathered at Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in
San Francisco on Friday to demand a fast-track citizenship process after weeks
of conflicting messages from federal officials.

"Our end goal is to eliminate the citizenship requirement," said Daz Lamparas,
spokesman for the Service Employees International Union Local 790, which
represents screeners at San Francisco Airport. "But at least the people who are
qualified should be expedited."

Of the 600 screeners at San Francisco Airport who are not U.S. citizens, 150
have a chance of becoming citizens by June, when new federal job requirements
are expected to kick in. The naturalization process often takes many months.

Screeners have secured the support of powerful California politicians such as
U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco. On Friday,
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said he was working closely with the INS
to speed up the naturalization process for qualified screeners.

But INS officials in San Francisco said a decision had been made at their
Washington, D.C., headquarters not to take shortcuts for screeners. And
President Bush this month defended the citizenship requirement in federal court.

The Department of Transportation must hire a federal workforce of 60,000
screeners by Nov. 19 to comply with a post-Sept. 11 law to tighten airport
security.

San Francisco International Airport is near the top of the list of U.S. airports
making the transition from private to public screeners, and it could happen as
early as June, according to the Transportation Security Administration. Airports
in Chicago and Baltimore have already begun the process.

"Sooner rather than later," security administration spokesman Paul Turk said
Friday, referring to San Francisco Airport.

At the San Francisco and San Jose airports, an estimated 800 screeners are legal
U.S. residents but not citizens.

That worries airport officials, who will lose experienced employees, and
screeners, who will be left without necessary credentials.

"We'll have no second chance to apply," said San Francisco Airport screener
Erlinda Valencia, who stood outside the INS building in downtown San Francisco
on Friday surrounded by protesters carrying signs that read, "Citizenship for
airport screeners now!" Feinstein and Pelosi have sent regrets about attending
for a similar event planned Sunday.

Efforts by screeners to challenge the citizenship requirement on two other
fronts -- in Congress and in federal court -- are facing difficult hurdles.

* On Capitol Hill, Feinstein is working to garner Republican support for her
bill that would allow qualified, legal residents to continue working as
screeners while their applications are processed. Feinstein spokesman Jim Hock
said Friday: "It's going to be an uphill battle, but we're going to keep at it."

* In federal court this month, the Bush administration defended the requirement
in response to a lawsuit filed in January by the American Civil Liberties Union
on behalf of screeners from the San Francisco and Los Angeles airports.

"It assures a certain level of loyalty and commitment to the United States that
one would expect of a federal official performing a public function critical to
the protection of American lives," attorneys from the Department of Justice
said, requesting that a federal judge dismiss the case.

A hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles is set for June.

Different rules

Screeners argue that citizenship is unrelated to security. The military,
including National Guard members who patrol U.S. airports, does not have a
citizenship requirement.

They say removing experienced screeners will hurt, not enhance, security.

"To replace them with inexperienced people just doesn't make sense," said the
Rev. Nicholas Borzghol, whose church is part of the Bay Area Organizing
Committee which set up the event outside the INS office.

Screeners also say they're getting mixed signals from government officials.

During a visit to San Jose Friday, Mineta said he has been urging the INS to
expedite citizenship applications from employed screeners.

"We are working closely with the INS to help folks who applied for citizenship,"
Mineta said during a visit to announce a federal child-safety seat grant. "We're
asking the INS to help get people naturalized."

But Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco INS office, said a
decision has been made at the headquarters level "not to expedite this group
request."

In recent months, Rummery said her office has tried to help the screeners,
holding several meetings at the airport to pass out applications and explain the
process. The INS has also reduced its backlog to a waiting period of six to nine
months.

But to screeners such as Valencia, six months is too long. Valencia applied for
citizenship in January and is still waiting to hear back from the INS for an
interview.

Airports worried

Airport officials don't want to lose employees like Valencia, who has put in 14
years at San Francisco Airport. In a letter to Mineta last month, airport
officials expressed "strong concerns" about the Transportation Department's
"aggressive schedule."

"We don't think it's fair, but it's federal law," airport spokesman Ron Wilson
said. "We've been trying to convince them, but we haven't had a whole lot of
encouragement."

Mercury News Staff Writer John Woolfolk contributed to this report. Contact Ann
E. Marimow at amarimow@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7531.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 20, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

IMMIGRANTS EMBRACE U.S.;
ANXIETY, PATRIOTISM AND NEW FEES SPUR RUSH ON INS

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words


Rinaldo Quilici lived happily in the United States for 30 years and never saw a
reason to become a citizen. Until now.

With the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks focusing new attention on the status of
immigrants, the Brazil native has finally decided to become a citizen.

"Can I really be called an American if I'm not a citizen?" Quilici, 38, asked
recently before the start of a citizenship class in Sunnyvale.

Spurred by a sense of patriotism and anxiety after the September attacks,
immigrants like Quilici across the country are rushing to become U.S. citizens.

In Northern and Central California, applications for citizenship more than
doubled in the three months after Sept. 11 compared with the same period in
2000, part of a nationwide trend, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The spike may stem in part from a rush to avoid an increase in INS fees. But
some immigration experts also attribute the response to the federal government's
crackdown on illegal immigrants.

In recent months, federal authorities have expanded police powers over
foreigners, arrested or deported hundreds of Middle Eastern and Muslim
immigrants, reorganized the INS and tightened visa rules.

Although green-card holders -- who have many of the same rights as citizens --
have not been the focus of the changes, many still feel vulnerable these days,
experts said.

"A lot of people are fearful because of the recent climate," said Shannon
Gleeson, citizenship coordinator for Sacred Heart Community Service in San Jose.
"They feel they could get deported, so they want to feel a little more secure as
a citizen."

Some immigrants like Quilici said they want to strengthen ties to their adopted
homeland.

Quilici applied for citizenship before the terrorist attacks but felt content
remaining a legal permanent resident. When the INS called him in for
fingerprinting last year, Quilici at first didn't want to respond. But Sept. 11
changed his outlook.

"I've basically done everything an American has done," said Quilici, of
Sunnyvale. "I've been paying taxes . . . But now that everything is changing,
with the security risks and everything, I think they're going to be cracking
down on who they let in."

To qualify for citizenship, immigrants must be at least 18 years old and prove
they have lived in the country as a legal resident for at least five years. They
must be fingerprinted, pass an INS screening process and take an
English-language test on American history and basic civics.

Applicants also must show they can read, speak and write basic English.

Nationally, 332,869 permanent residents applied for citizenship between October
and February -- a 71 percent jump from the same period a year before.

In Northern and Central California, nearly 20,000 people applied for citizenship
between October and December, more than twice as many as the year before.

San Francisco immigration attorney Carl Falstrom said he has been advising
clients to apply as soon as they are eligible for citizenship.

"Certainly, this is one way to insulate yourself from undue Justice Department
scrutiny," Falstrom said. "Once you're a U.S. citizen, you're not a concern to
the INS anymore. Even if you have a green card, you can be deported."

On a recent Wednesday night, about a dozen students in a Sunnyvale adult
education citizenship class clustered around a videotape player to learn about
Plymouth Rock and the Pilgrims.

One of the students, Indian-born Sandhya Nayak, 36, said many immigrants are
suddenly more conscious of their status as non-citizens.

"After Sept. 11, if you plan to live here, it's better to be a citizen," said
Nayak, who has been a permanent U.S. resident for eight years. "It definitely
gives a feeling of security."

Some immigrants also rushed to apply for citizenship to avoid an increase in INS
fees that took effect in February. The application and fingerprint processing
fees rose to $310 from $250.

"Can you imagine, for a family of three, that's around $1,000 to apply," said
Chi Pham, program director for the Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education
Network in San Jose. "In fact, we're already having to withdraw applications
because they cannot afford the increase."

The last big surge in citizenship applications occurred in 1996 and 1997. That's
when hundreds of thousands of formerly illegal immigrants -- given amnesty in
the late 1980s -- became eligible for citizenship. During that two-year period,
2.7 million people applied for citizenship.

Despite the impact of Sept. 11, most immigrants apply for citizenship, experts
say, because they become eligible and want the privileges that come with being a
citizen -- the right to vote or hold a government job, for example.

But even those who long ago planned to apply now say that becoming a citizen has
taken on a new importance.

Shahla Peidayesh, 32, a Foothill College dental hygiene student who applied for
citizenship before the September attacks, said she has found it more difficult
to travel now as a non-citizen.

"I went to Mexico recently, and they gave me a real hard time. Everyone who was
a citizen just went right on through," said Peidayesh, a native of Iran. "I
think it's true. People are wanting to feel more American."

Contact Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com or (415) 434-1018.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 22, 2002 Monday PS1 EDITION

Immigrant leadership groomed;
PILOT PROGRAM TEACHES NEWCOMERS ABOUT POLITICAL PROCESS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 449 words


In an unprecedented partnership, Santa Clara County and San Jose City College
are teaching immigrants how to maneuver through the political system and build
strong community networks.

In doing so, the county hopes to groom a new generation of immigrant leaders in
an area where one in three residents is foreign-born.

The pilot project, conceived after a county survey two years ago identified
leadership training as one of the most pressing needs for immigrants, has a
clear goal: to produce a pool of immigrant leaders who can be tapped, years from
now, to serve on various public and private boards across Silicon Valley.

County officials hope the group of 48 residents -- from 22 countries -- will
forge multicultural collaborations and help bridge the gap they say exists
between many immigrant groups.

"We live in a huge salad bowl, yet many immigrant groups have not really worked
together," said Richard Hobbs, director of citizenship and immigrant programs
for Santa Clara County. "What we're trying to do is provide them with the tools
to better understand the environment they work in."

The county contracted with the community college to develop a three-month
program that includes basic civic lessons, the importance of voting and how to
become an effective leader. Two classes were formed, one for residents who are
currently leaders within their communities and one for those who stand to become
leaders.

"After Sept. 11, what our community suffered from was a lack of visibility,"
said Jasvir Zonobi, a volunteer in the Bay Area's Sikh community and one of the
program's students. "People didn't know who we are," she said, referring to
post-Sept. 11 hate crimes directed at Sikhs.

Zonobi, a software engineer, said she hopes to use what she has learned in class
to help the Sikh community become more effective in promoting public awareness
of its cultural and religious heritage.

The native of Punjab, India, said she has created new alliances in class with
leaders from other immigrant communities who face discrimination and
resettlement.

Rosalino Pedres, an organizer for the Service Employees International Union,
said the class has encouraged him to participate in the political process.

"As an immigrant, I have a lot to learn in understanding the American political
system, the legislative system and ultimately how to better represent the people
I work for," said Pedres, an immigrant from Mexico, who began his career as a
janitor in a Palo Alto office building.

"Politics is not my goal. My goal is to be a better leader for the janitors I
serve," Pedres said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 22, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Class provides immigrants with tools for leadership

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words


In an unprecedented partnership, Santa Clara County and San Jose City College
are teaching immigrants how to maneuver through the political system and build
strong community networks.

In doing so, the county hopes to groom a new generation of immigrant leaders in
an area where one in three residents is foreign-born.

The pilot project, conceived after a county survey two years ago identified
leadership training as one of the most pressing needs for immigrants, has a
clear goal: to produce a pool of immigrant leaders who can be tapped, years from
now, to serve on various public and private boards across Silicon Valley.

County officials hope the group of 48 residents -- from 22 countries -- will
forge multicultural collaborations and help bridge the gap they say exists
between many immigrant groups.

"We live in a huge salad bowl, yet many immigrant groups have not really worked
together," said Richard Hobbs, director of citizenship and immigrant programs
for Santa Clara County. "What we're trying to do is provide them with the tools
to better understand the environment they work in."

The county contracted with the community college to develop a three-month
program that touches upon a number of topics, including basic civic lessons, the
importance of voting and how to become an effective leader. Two classes were
formed, one for residents who are currently leaders within their communities and
one for those who stand to become leaders.

"After Sept. 11, what our community suffered from was a lack of visibility,"
said Jasvir Zonobi, a volunteer in the Bay Area's Sikh community and one of the
program's students. "People didn't know who we are," she said, referring to a
spate of post-Sept. 11 hate crimes directed at Sikhs.

Zonobi, a software engineer, said she hopes to use what she has learned in class
to help those within the Sikh community become more effective in promoting
public awareness of their cultural and religious heritage.

The native of Punjab, India, said she has created new alliances in class with
leaders from other immigrant communities who face similar issues such as
discrimination and resettlement.

For Rosalino Pedres, an organizer for the Service Employees International Union,
the class has encouraged him to participate in the political process.

"As an immigrant, I have a lot to learn in understanding the American political
system, the legislative system and ultimately how to better represent the people
I work for," said Pedres, an immigrant from Mexico, who began his career as a
janitor in a Palo Alto office building.

"Politics is not my goal. My goal is to be a better leader for the janitors I
serve," Pedres said.

On a recent Friday, class members discussed the importance of having role
models. Mai Le Ho, the class instructor, brought the two classes together to
jump-start discussions.

"They're not just meeting each other," Ho said. "The emerging leaders are seeing
role models in immigrant leaders who are now working in other communities."

The students also met with State Sen. John Vasconcellos, D-San Jose, and Sandra
Soto, chief of staff for Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

Soto recounted how she began her political career as a concerned mother and
education activist.

"We're here to lead you through the democratic process," Soto said. "As you're
learning already, it's the way to make a difference."

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 24, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Over 140 arrested at D.C.-area airports;
WORKERS ARE CHARGED WITH LYING ABOUT IDENTITIES, CRIMINAL PASTS

BYLINE: Katherine Shaver and Allan Lengel Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 140 employees at the Washington area's three major airports have been
indicted on charges of lying about their identities or criminal pasts on
applications to work near airplanes, runways and cargo, federal officials
announced Tuesday.

U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft said the charges demonstrated that the
nation's system of airport-worker background checks needs tightening. He said
the reviews -- done piecemeal by airlines, contractors, airports and private
security companies -- too often let illegal immigrants, felons and others slip
through.

Bay Area workers

In the Bay Area, San Francisco International Airport has revoked security badges
for seven employees after FBI background checks showed they lied about recent
felony convictions to obtain employment.

Scores of other employees with criminal records are still under investigation in
the Bay Area to determine whether their badges should be revoked. Employees are
allowed to continue working while the investigation, which can take up to a
month, is under way.

A separate investigation by the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
identified hundreds of airport employees nationwide with immigration charges.
The two investigations combined have resulted in 55 employees at the San
Francisco airport and 11 at Mineta San Jose International Airport losing their
high-security clearance since last year.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that the Bush
administration was comfortable enough with heightened security on airplanes
using Reagan National Airport to lift post-Sept. 11 security restrictions on the
airport's flight path and operating hours.

The indictments of the airport workers -- 26 of whom were employed at National
-- do not detract from the enhanced security measures aboard airplanes, said
Lenny Alcivar at the Transportation Department.

Federal officials arrested 95 employees who worked at National and Dulles
airports. They include food-service workers, baggage screeners and custodians.
Forty-three other National and Dulles employees were under indictment but were
still being sought.

Officials also said 10 workers at Baltimore-Washington International Airport
were indicted on similar charges.

No one was charged in connection with a terrorist act. Most were accused of
lying on applications to work in high-security areas. Authorities said the
misstatements included supplying false Social Security numbers and failing to
disclose felony convictions or pending state charges.

"What this investigation uncovered should be a wake-up call to every airport in
America," Ashcroft said as he announced the results of the five-month
investigation at an Alexandria, Va., news conference.

Raids in other cities

Since Sept. 11, federal authorities have conducted similar raids at a half-dozen
airports, including Salt Lake City, Denver and Miami. However, Tuesday's arrests
refocused attention on security lapses at airports that are just minutes, and in
National's case even seconds, from the White House, the Pentagon and other
potential terrorist targets.

David Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association, said the arrests
highlight how much airport security had deteriorated before Sept. 11 as well as
remaining gaps that terrorists could exploit.

"I think the concern the public should have is how inadequate airline and
aviation security had gotten that we're now just discovering these things,"
Stempler said. "We all thought people with access to planes were somehow being
checked, but apparently not to the extent they should have been."

Mercury News staff writer Ann E. Marimow contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 29, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Split INS still faces technology shortfall;
IMMIGRATION AGENCY: DESPITE 80 SYSTEMS, TROUBLED BUREAUCRACY REMAINS PAPER-BOUND

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1437 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


With great fanfare, the House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly last week
to abolish the troubled Immigration and Naturalization Service and replace it
with two separate agencies.

But the new agencies would be saddled with the same outdated technology that has
left the INS unable to effectively guard the nation's borders or cope with
growing immigration.

Despite spending hundreds of millions of dollars on computers and automation
initiatives over the past decade, the INS remains heavily reliant on paper forms
and files. While creating two new agencies, the House also turned down
initiatives to directly address a technological nightmare.

The sprawling 34,000-employee INS has more than 80 separate computer systems
with little ability to share information within the INS or with other federal
agencies, such as the FBI. One of the INS's major technological achievements to
date is an IBM-mainframe-based system called the Central Index System that
simply tells an employee which of the other databases contains certain
information.

Virtually all of that information still resides exclusively in paper files,
which must be shipped from INS office to INS office whenever an immigrant moves
-- if the file can be found at all. It's a blizzard of paperwork for an agency
that processes nearly 6 million applications a year and has 25 million active
case files. The late Beatle John Lennon's immigration files took up three
shelves, and in some complex cases, a file can be as thick as 10 feet.

"When I started this job . . . I found that I had inherited an
information-technology system, or more correctly systems, that were big on
information and small on technology," INS Commissioner James Ziglar lamented at
a congressional hearing last month where he was hammered for visa-approval
letters mailed to two of the Sept. 11 hijackers six months after the attacks.

Long waits

The INS's technological failings have for years created long waits and
frustrating delays for immigrants and their families. But now they've also
become a big homeland-security problem. Of the 19 terrorist hijackers, one
entered the United States on a student visa but never attended class, and two
others were able to enter the country even though their names were on terrorist
watch lists.

Solving the INS's longstanding information-technology problems has become a
priority of the Bush administration. But despite assurances from INS officials,
many critics believe they're incapable of doing it.

The House of Representatives last week voted overwhelmingly to dismantle the
INS, splitting its functions into one agency for border and enforcement issues
and another for services to immigrants. Both would report to a new associate
attorney general for immigration affairs. The White House, which had been
pushing a similar reorganization, but within the existing INS structure, last
week gave its qualified backing to the House plan.

The legislation, however, calls for a centralized Office of Shared Services to
provide information technology to both agencies. And the technology would be the
existing INS databases and computer systems that are decades behind the curve.

"People said it's rearranging the deck chairs on the good ship Titanic," said
Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a longtime critic of the agency. "There's some
truth to that unless you fundamentally change the focus, the technology and the
management."

She was one of only nine members of the House of Representatives to vote against
the INS breakup last week, in part because she believes it does not address the
technology problems. Lofgren argued for a waiver of federal rules to allow the
agency to more easily and quickly bring in outside technology experts and
purchase information systems.

But her amendment to do that failed 312-105 on Thursday, shortly before the INS
breakup was approved. She is hopeful the Senate will address her concerns when
it considers the legislation.

"They don't even have, in my judgment, people who have the expertise to know
what they need to acquire," Lofgren said of INS officials. "They need help."

Reviews in recent years by Congress' General Accounting Office and the inspector
general of the Department of Justice agree.

"INS is a challenged agency when it comes to effectively and efficiently
managing" information technology, the GAO reported last October.

In 1999, the inspector general found "that the INS continued to spend hundreds
of millions of dollars on automation initiatives without being able to explain
how the money was spent or what was accomplished."

Estimated completion dates for some projects had been delayed without
explanation; project costs continued to spiral upward with no justification for
how the money was spent; and projects were nearing completion with no assurance
they would meet performance and functional requirements, the report said.

The agency still has not completed a so-called enterprise architecture plan to
identify its information-technology needs. Without it, the INS doesn't know if
its information-technology investments are "the right thing to do" or even if
the investments are "being done in the right way," the October GAO report said.

Scott Hastings, the deputy associate commissioner for information resources at
the INS, said the agency had taken "some legitimate hits" for its technology
failings.

"To apply technology before you understand what your business objectives are is
very often wasteful, and I think that's exactly what we discovered," he said.
But since Sept. 11, the agency has been working furiously to finish the
enterprise architecture plan and solve its technology problems, Hastings said.

Ziglar and Attorney General John Ashcroft have pledged to bring the nation's
immigration infrastructure up to date. The INS plans to spend $2.6 billion in
coming years to get automated systems running to do such things as track foreign
students and to monitor people crossing the borders. Before embracing the
breakup of the INS, Ashcroft announced the creation of a chief information
officer position for the agency. And Hastings has pledged to work closely with
Silicon Valley to upgrade the technology.

"This is the equivalent of putting in a Marshall Plan," Hastings said, referring
to the ambitious U.S. effort for European recovery after World War II. "It's
going to require private industry, academia, Congress and the brightest and best
people in government to pull this off."

By this summer, the INS hopes to be collecting at least two immigration forms
electronically. It will be the first time the agency has ever been able to
accept any sort of electronic filing. It plans to have operational a
computerized system -- six years in the making -- to track the student-visa
system.

And the agency's Automated Biometric Identification System, which stores digital
images of fingerprints and photographs, has finally begun paying dividends,
sharing information with law enforcement agencies to identify more than 1,000
illegal immigrants in INS custody wanted on criminal charges over the past nine
months.

Paper or electrons?

But INS officials are still wrestling with concerns about replacing paper files
that contain legal documents, such as birth certificates, with electronic ones,
Hastings said.

"There are still a lot of people around that think there's a forensic value to a
formally submitted document," he said. "There is a cultural issue there. It's
not just not being willing to be flexible. There is a genuine concern about
wanting to have the appropriate source documentation or evidence to make the
right decision."

That's one reason why some question whether the INS has the mindset, let alone
the ability, to fully adopt technology.

"The paradigm hasn't changed," said Warren Leiden, a San Francisco immigration
attorney who has dealt with the INS for more than 20 years. "Almost all of the
technology they've introduced has been oriented toward supporting a fully
papered process. They're using technology to track the paper . . . but what they
haven't changed is the paradigm to imagine a world where they did it
electronically."

Still, Lieden, a former executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association who served on the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform in the
1990s, said, "I am optimistic that they will in this decade make great advances"
in technology.

"The funding and willingness to really get it right at the highest levels of the
administration and in Congress bode well," he said. "And I think, frankly, it
just can't go on like this."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 1, 2002 Wednesday F1 EDITION

How changes in rules would affect visitor visas

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words


In an attempt to deter terrorism, the INS is proposing major changes to its
policies for visitor visas.

The changes come in a new post-Sept. 11 climate, with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service under fire after it was discovered that at least one of
the terrorists entered the United States on a student visa, and two others had
their visa status changed, with the INS paperwork arriving more than a year
later, after both were killed in the terrorist attacks.

Here is a look at what the INS is proposing:

* Eliminate the minimum six-month admission period for B-2 non-immigrant
visitors, and instead base the admission period on the amount of time needed to
accomplish the purpose of the trip (in many cases 30 days).

* Reduce the maximum initial admission period for all B non-immigrant visitors
from one year to six months.

* Limit the conditions for which an extension of stay in B non-immigrant visitor
status can be granted and reduce the maximum length of that extension.

The current policy admits most visitors for six months. Under the new policy,
visitors on B-1 and B-2 visas would be admitted to the United States for shorter
time periods, which would be determined by an INS inspector at the port of
entry. Most visitors will probably be admitted for 30 days, which would be
reflected on the "Arrival-Departure" or I-94 form.

An extension can be granted only under certain conditions, including
humanitarian and religious reasons, or if they fall under the "L" visa --
temporary transfers from companies -- or if they are personal or domestic
workers for U.S. citizens.

Visitors already in the United States will not be subject to the new rules
unless they apply for an extension of stay after the date that the regulations
become final, should the new rules be adopted.

Some visitors change their status after they are in the United States. For
example, someone here on a tourist visa who decides to go to school would then
have to convert to a student visa. The proposed rule will not bar visitors from
changing their status, but it will require that visitors notify the INS upon
entry that they intend to enroll in an educational institution.

This rule will not apply to those already in the United States on B
non-immigrant visitor status. And the proposal does not bar individuals admitted
under other non-immigrant visa categories from changing status.

The INS is seeking input from the public on the proposed changes. You have until
May 13 to write or email the agency. The mailing address is: Director,
Regulations and Forms Services Division, Immigration and Naturalization Service,
425 I Street, N.W., Room 4034, Washington, D.C., 20536. Or you can send your
comments via email to insregs@usdoj.gov. Use "INS No. 2176-01" in the subject
heading or in your correspondence.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       May 1, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

How changes in rules would affect visitor visas

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words


In an attempt to deter terrorism, the INS is proposing major changes to its
policies for visitor visas.

The changes come in a new post-Sept. 11 climate, with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service under fire after it was discovered that at least one of
the terrorists entered the United States on a student visa, and two others had
their visa status changed, with the INS paperwork arriving more than a year
later, after both were killed in the terrorist attacks.

Here is a look at what the INS is proposing:

* Eliminate the minimum six-month admission period for B-2 non-immigrant
visitors, and instead base the admission period on the amount of time needed to
accomplish the purpose of the trip (in many cases 30 days).

* Reduce the maximum initial admission period for all B non-immigrant visitors
from one year to six months.

* Limit the conditions for which an extension of stay in B non-immigrant visitor
status can be granted and reduce the maximum length of that extension.

The current policy admits most visitors for six months. Under the new policy,
visitors on B-1 and B-2 visas would be admitted to the United States for shorter
time periods, which would be determined by an INS inspector at the port of
entry. Most visitors will probably be admitted for 30 days, which would be
reflected on the "Arrival-Departure" or I-94 form.

An extension can be granted only under certain conditions, including
humanitarian and religious reasons, or if they fall under the "L" visa --
temporary transfers from companies -- or if they are personal or domestic
workers for U.S. citizens.

Visitors already in the United States will not be subject to the new rules
unless they apply for an extension of stay after the date that the regulations
become final, should the new rules be adopted.

Some visitors change their status after they are in the United States. For
example, someone here on a tourist visa who decides to go to school would then
have to convert to a student visa. The proposed rule will not bar visitors from
changing their status, but it will require that visitors notify the INS upon
entry that they intend to enroll in an educational institution.

This rule will not apply to those already in the United States on B
non-immigrant visitor status. And the proposal does not bar individuals admitted
under other non-immigrant visa categories from changing status.

The INS is seeking input from the public on the proposed changes. You have until
May 13 to write or email the agency. The mailing address is: Director,
Regulations and Forms Services Division, Immigration and Naturalization Service,
425 I Street, N.W., Room 4034, Washington, D.C., 20536. Or you can send your
comments via email to insregs@usdoj.gov. Use "INS No. 2176-01" in the subject
heading or in your correspondence.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                         May 5, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

President reaches out to Latinos on holiday

BYLINE: Lawrence L. Knutson Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Reaching out to Mexicans on both sides of the Rio Grande, President Bush on
Saturday honored the Cinco de Mayo holiday while praising Mexican immigrants for
their "strong values and their determination to create a better life for
themselves and their children."

In his weekly radio address, Bush renewed his support for border reforms to
speed commerce and visitors between Mexico and the United States while keeping
out terrorists and drug traffickers. He urged Congress to extend immigration
measures allowing Mexican families to stay together while awaiting permanent
residency in the United States.

Bush renewed his pledge to help "the entire American familia achieve prosperity
and live in peace."

The radio broadcast was Bush's second commemoration in two days of the Mexican
national holiday, which is today.

Cinco de Mayo -- in English, the Fifth of May -- celebrates the victory of
Mexican soldiers over the French at the 1862 Battle of Puebla.

"That victory continues to inspire liberty-loving people across the globe," Bush
said. "It reminds us that the cost of freedom is always high, but it is never
too high."

Friday, Mexican-Americans joined the president and his wife, Laura, at the White
House for mariachi music and a speech nearly identical to Saturday's.

Bush, trying to strengthen ties with Latinos, is the first president to follow
his weekly radio speeches with a Spanish translation.

Bush received 35 percent of the Latino vote in 2000, far more than any previous
Republican presidential candidate. In 2000, Latinos numbered 35.3 million and
made up 12.5 percent of the population, a 60 percent increase over a decade
earlier.

The Republican National Committee was scheduled to announce plans Monday for a
new effort to reach out to Latinos.

Terry McAuliffe, head of the Democratic National Committee, discounted GOP
efforts to make lasting inroads among Latinos.

"The sad truth is that the Republicans' idea of Latino outreach is sprinkling a
few words in Spanish during a nice White House photo-op surrounded by Hispanic
leaders with lots of food," McAuliffe said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 10, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

California maintains growth rate;
IMMIGRATION, BIRTHS OFFSET ECONOMIC EFFECTS

BYLINE: Michael Bazeley Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 473 words


California's economic slump appears to have had little effect on population
growth as the state added 652,000 residents last year, state officials reported
Thursday.

The annual population report, based on estimates by the state Department of
Finance, showed a 1.9 percent increase statewide, bringing the total number of
California residents to more than 35 million.

Demographers said that births and immigration continue to fuel population
growth, counteracting any effects of the economic downturn. In fact, demographer
Melanie Martindale doubted that the sour economy has had a significant impact on
population numbers.

Impact often delayed

"People don't just pack up overnight and leave," said Martindale, one of the
co-authors of the report. "The kids may still be in school. You have to sell
your house. It takes a while for the job growth change to show up in migration
figures."

The state's population growth is in line with past years. Through the 1990s,
California grew by an average of 1.4 percent per year, adding about 411,300
people annually.

San Jose remained the third-largest city in 2001, behind Los Angeles and San
Diego. It added 14,200 residents, for a total population of 918,000.

Growth last year was fastest in the interior areas of Northern California,
including San Joaquin, San Benito and Sacramento counties. Bay Area counties, on
the other hand, saw slower growth as families fled the high cost of living.

"There's more housing available, and they've started moving inward," Martindale
said.

Santa Clara County, for example, had the second highest number of people moving
out last year, Martindale said, behind Los Angeles. Many of those people moved
to neighboring counties such as Alameda and San Mateo. But Sacramento, San
Joaquin and Los Angeles counties were also favored destination spots, she said,
citing migration data that has not yet been released.

"People from Santa Clara are going everywhere," she said.

Birth rates still high

Despite the migration out of core urban areas, Bay Area cities will continue to
grow because of relatively high birth rates and immigration. With few
exceptions, every Bay Area city grew last year, according to state figures.

"In terms of population, growth has slowed down quite a bit in Silicon Valley,
up the Peninsula and into San Francisco," said Hing Wong, a regional planner
with the Association of Bay Area Governments. "We will grow, but it will be
slower."

Another regional planner, Brian Kirking of ABAG, doubted that large numbers of
people are leaving the Bay Area. But if they are, he said, it is in search of
cheaper housing, not jobs. That means that commute times will likely continue to
climb, as workers make daily treks into Bay Area job centers.

Contact Michael Bazeley at mbazeley@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5642.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       May 11, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Mexican leader says migration talks stalled;
FOX WARNS LACK OF PROGRESS WILL BLOCK RELATIONSHIP TO U.S.

BYLINE: Hugh Dellios Chicago Tribune

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


The White House downplayed differences with Mexico over immigration Friday after
Mexican President Vicente Fox warned the United States that lack of progress on
new accords is undermining his reform efforts and blocking a closer relationship
between the two countries.

Using unusually pointed words, Fox said Thursday night in New York that talks on
immigration reform had stalled.

"There cannot be a privileged relationship between the United States and Mexico
without a real advance in substantive affairs in our bilateral agenda," Fox
said. "And there cannot be a substantive advance without addressing in an
integral way the theme of migration."

Growing frustration

Fox's address to the Council of the Americas, a private business forum based in
the United States, gave voice to growing frustration in Mexico that the global
war on terrorism has sidetracked hopes for a major immigration accord, one of
the cornerstone initiatives of Fox's administration.

Five days before the Sept. 11 attacks, Fox and President Bush pledged their
commitment to a new accord.

Fox envisioned an agreement legalizing millions of undocumented Mexican laborers
in the United States. U.S. officials sought a new guest-worker program that
would better regulate the flow of Mexicans crossing the 2,000-mile border in
search of jobs.

Despite the official pledges and the rapport between Bush and Fox, progress has
been nil, as Fox acknowledged for the first time publicly Thursday night.

White House press officer Claire Buchan said Friday that the United States and
Mexico retained "a very strong and robust relationship." She also asserted that
the two sides were "making progress" on immigration reform.

'Only lasting solution'

"The only lasting solution will be to legalize the situation of millions of
undocumented Mexican workers who are already in this country and establish a
secure and orderly framework for migrant workers," Fox said.

"That will be the litmus test of our true commitment to a new and closer
relationship," he said.

The immigration issue is crucial to Mexico, which receives more than $9 billion
a year from Mexicans in the United States sending money home. The issue also is
important to U.S. employers who rely on the Mexican labor.

But reflecting public fears since September, Congress has been preoccupied with
security. Many lawmakers believe that the United States should limit, not
expand, immigration.

Fox's speech also gave voice to concerns across Latin America that the Bush
administration had delivered little to the region despite the president's
constant reminders that Mexico and the hemisphere are dear to his heart and
important foreign-policy priorities.

The president restated those feelings last week during Cinco de Mayo
celebrations, when he appeared with a mariachi band at the White House and
underscored his pledge to help "the entire American familia achieve prosperity
and live in peace."

Regional leaders express fears that the United States is failing to do enough of
the right things to help Venezuela, Colombia and Argentina as they face serious
political or economic crises. Fox and Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo, among
others, face domestic criticism for their ties to the United States. American
officials themselves acknowledge hearing expressions of disappointment with
democracy in the region.

The United States is criticized for its hands-off approach to Argentina's
destabilizing economic problems and its failure to condemn the aborted coup in
Venezuela last month.

Latin American role

"In these difficult times, Latin America appears to have been abandoned to its
fate," Fox told the business forum. "We can't allow this situation to continue.

"Mexico as much as the U.S. has a responsibility to play a constructive role in
Latin America. To not assume this role could contribute to a possible loss of
control in our hemisphere."

Fox argued that the lack of progress on immigration gave ammunition to the
opposition in Mexico to condemn his attempts to create a closer, more open
relationship with the United States.

"The new foreign policy of Mexico is under attack from those who reject ties
with the U.S., and that inevitably affects our capacity to fulfill a more
constructive role in our hemisphere," he said.

In their own speeches to the council this week, U.S. officials recognized the
problems facing Latin America. But they insisted that the onus was on the
region's leaders to work them out by taking further steps toward democracy and
free trade.

U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell faulted Latin American leaders for not
following through with a "second generation" of democratic and economic reforms
that would cushion the region against the current hard times, and said it was
now time to "finish the work."

Rafael Fernandez de Castro, a Mexican political analyst, said Fox needs to be
seen at home as pushing harder on the White House. But he said the Mexican
leader raised expectations too high when he made the immigration issue his top
foreign priority.

"My concern is that . . . the U.S. is not ready for recriminations," he said.
"We've got to be patient."

Reuters contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 13, 2002 Monday PS1 EDITION

INS apologizes for behavior of private guard at office

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 371 words


Q I had an experience with the Immigration and Naturalization Service guards at
the San Jose office on Feb. 26. In December, I had received a letter from the
INS stating the time and date of my interview was to be Feb. 14 at 10:20 a.m. I
then received a second letter changing the date to Feb. 26. When I showed up at
Feb. 26, all I had was that first letter INS sent. I lost the second letter. So
I showed the guard this first letter and told him that I received a second
letter which was lost. He refused to let me enter without the second letter.

I asked him to verify my name on the appointment sheet, but he threatened me,
stating if I didn't leave there would be a problem. This guard's attitude needs
attention. What should I do? Name withheld at writer's request Mountain View

A We shared your letter with Sharon Rummery, an INS official, who apologized for
the treatment you received back in February. Rummery says the guards at the San
Jose INS office are not employed by the agency, but by the federal government's
General Services Administration.

Rummery says that still doesn't mean the INS condones rude behavior. She says if
someone feels a guard has been rude, they need to convey that information to the
San Jose office by contacting the office at 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose, Calif.
95112 (408) 918-4098. You will need full details, including the guard's name or
badge number.

Reactions: cats

The best way to discourage cats from digging (Action Line, May 1) is to lay out
citrus rinds in the flower beds or potted plants. This lasts longer than the
repellent sprays. Cats really seem to hate the smell of citrus rind. Charles
Stephens Fremont

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/ mld/bayarea/news/ columnists/action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 13, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

INS apologizes for behavior of private guard at office

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 371 words


Q I had an experience with the Immigration and Naturalization Service guards at
the San Jose office on Feb. 26. In December, I had received a letter from the
INS stating the time and date of my interview was to be Feb. 14 at 10:20 a.m. I
then received a second letter changing the date to Feb. 26. When I showed up at
Feb. 26, all I had was that first letter INS sent. I lost the second letter. So
I showed the guard this first letter and told him that I received a second
letter which was lost. He refused to let me enter without the second letter.

I asked him to verify my name on the appointment sheet, but he threatened me,
stating if I didn't leave there would be a problem. This guard's attitude needs
attention. What should I do? Name withheld at writer's request Mountain View

A We shared your letter with Sharon Rummery, an INS official, who apologized for
the treatment you received back in February. Rummery says the guards at the San
Jose INS office are not employed by the agency, but by the federal government's
General Services Administration.

Rummery says that still doesn't mean the INS condones rude behavior. She says if
someone feels a guard has been rude, they need to convey that information to the
San Jose office by contacting the office at 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose, Calif.
95112 (408) 918-4098. You will need full details, including the guard's name or
badge number.

Reactions: cats

The best way to discourage cats from digging (Action Line, May 1) is to lay out
citrus rinds in the flower beds or potted plants. This lasts longer than the
repellent sprays. Cats really seem to hate the smell of citrus rind. Charles
Stephens Fremont

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/ mld/bayarea/news/columnists/

action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 13, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

INS center under probe;
PAPER SHREDDING SPURS QUESTIONS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 270 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


All paper shredding at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's massive
Orange County processing center has been suspended as officials investigate
allegations that a database contractor may have improperly shredded documents.

The Laguna Niguel service center, one of four such INS facilities nationwide, is
the clearinghouse for applicants from California, Arizona, Nevada and Hawaii.
The center receives an average of 60,000 pieces of mail each week, everything
from visa extensions to applications for political asylum.

Non-essential paperwork is routinely sent to the shredder, but last month two
agency employees relayed suspicions of improper shredding, leading to an
investigation by the INS Office of Internal Audit, the Los Angeles Times
reported Sunday.

No definitive proof of illegal destruction of government property has been
discovered, and officials are unaware of a motive, said INS spokeswoman Virginia
Kice. It's also not known how many documents may have been affected.

"We are taking this matter very, very seriously," Kice said. "The kind of work
that's being done at this service center certainly affects tens of thousands of
people."

Telephone inquiry services are being expanded to handle calls from people who
fear that documents may have been lost, Kice said. Some applicants may be asked
to send new copies of documents. Immigration advocates and attorneys will be
consulted to help reconstruct missing files.

The INS inquiry is focusing on the activities of Texas-based Datatrac
Information Services, Kice said. Datatrac is a subcontractor to JHM Research &
Development.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                         May 19, 2002 Sunday A1 EDITION

CITIZENSHIP MADE SIMPLER

BYLINE: Nicole C. Wong Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


More than 1,000 immigrants speaking languages ranging from Spanish to Somali
sought help Saturday sorting through what has become an increasingly complex
application to become a U.S. citizen during Santa Clara County's twice-yearly
event to demystify the process.

Citizenship Day, sponsored by 16 community-based groups working together as the
Santa Clara County Citizenship Collaborative, offered an array of free services
at San Jose City College, including hourlong workshops in 17 languages to
explain the citizenship application process.

But organizers said they're in a tight spot because their government financing
has dwindled as more immigrants are trying to become citizens and citizenship
applications have gotten longer.

Foreign-born citizens made up 12 percent of the Bay Area population in 2000, up
from 8 percent in 1990. And in Santa Clara county, where a third of the 1.7
million residents are immigrants, more and more people are seeking citizenship.

In northern and central California, applications for citizenship more than
doubled in the three months after Sept. 11 compared with the same period in
2000, following a nationwide trend, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Applications climbed 80 percent during the first three
months of this year compared with the same period in 2001.

But community groups worry that it may be harder to help all the limited-English
speakers navigate the naturalization process now that Gov. Davis has proposed
budget cuts for the state's Naturalization Services Program. Since 1999, that
program has provided money to groups and government agencies to help more than
38,000 immigrants throughout California.

"The impact in Santa Clara County is the loss of over $100,000 to service
providers," while the time it takes "to help a client fill out a form has
tripled," said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's Citizenship &
Immigrant Programs.

In January, the four-page naturalization application more than doubled in
length.

"The 10-page form is going to heavily impact the non-profit agencies doing this
work," Hobbs said. "What used to take 20 minutes to fill out now takes an hour
per client."

Applicants now must provide the government with much more information about
themselves, including documentation about every traffic citation they've gotten.

"It's going to create more paperwork unnecessarily," Hobbs said, "because who
hasn't had a traffic ticket?"

He and others fear it's all going to mean longer waits for would-be citizens to
get help from community groups and to have their applications processed by the
INS.

To qualify for citizenship, immigrants must be at least 18 years old and prove
they have lived in the country as a lawful permanent resident for at least five
years. They must be fingerprinted, pass an INS screening process and take an
English-language test about American history and basic civics. Applicants also
must show they can read, speak and write basic English.

While community groups openly complain about the longer application and limited
government financing this year, many of the people they help hesitate to gripe,
fearing their criticism might jeopardize their chances of being approved for
citizenship.

That's why a 74-year-old Saratoga man didn't want to give his name. He is
waiting to learn the status of his second citizenship application, which he
submitted in January after suffering a snafu with the one he turned in a year
ago.

"The foremost country in the world is so inefficient," he said with
exasperation, adding that he's starting to have second thoughts about becoming a
citizen.

Michelle Do, a 37-year-old immigrant worries that a 24 percent increase in the
application and fingerprint processing fee, which went into effect in February,
may put the $310 price of citizenship out of reach for low-income residents.

"What if people are poor and don't have money?" lamented Do, of San Jose. "They
can never afford it."

In the next row, Hoang Minh Nguyen of San Jose shrugged it off as an important
principle in civics.

Nguyen, 46, said: "In America, nothing's free."

Cecilia Kang contributed to this report. Contact Nicole C. Wong at
nwong@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7587.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 19, 2002 Sunday PS1 EDITION

U.S. citizenship made simpler;
VOLUNTEERS DEMYSTIFY ROAD TO NATURALIZATION

BYLINE: Nicole C. Wong Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 520 words


More than 1,000 immigrants speaking languages ranging from Spanish to Somali
sought help Saturday sorting through what has become an increasingly complex
application to become a U.S. citizen during Santa Clara County's twice-yearly
event to demystify the process.

Citizenship Day, sponsored by 16 community-based groups working together as the
Santa Clara County Citizenship Collaborative, offered an array of free services
at San Jose City College, including hourlong workshops in 17 languages to
explain the citizenship application process.

But organizers said they're in a tight spot because their government financing
has dwindled as more immigrants are trying to become citizens and citizenship
applications have gotten longer.

Foreign-born citizens made up 12 percent of the Bay Area population in 2000, up
from 8 percent in 1990. In Santa Clara County, where a third of the 1.7 million
residents are immigrants, more and more people are seeking citizenship.

In central and Northern California, applications for citizenship more than
doubled in the three months after Sept. 11 compared with the same period in
2000, following a nationwide trend, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Applications climbed 80 percent during the first three
months of this year compared with the same period in 2001.

But community groups worry that it may be harder to help all the limited-English
speakers navigate the naturalization process now that Gov. Davis has proposed
budget cuts for the state's Naturalization Services Program. Since 1999, that
program has provided money to groups and government agencies to help more than
38,000 immigrants throughout California.

"The impact in Santa Clara County is the loss of over $100,000 to service
providers," while the time it takes "to help a client fill out a form has
tripled," said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's Citizenship &
Immigrant Programs.

In January, the four-page naturalization application more than doubled in
length.

"The 10-page form is going to heavily impact the non-profit agencies doing this
work," Hobbs said. "What used to take 20 minutes to fill out now takes an hour
per client."

Applicants now must provide the government with much more information about
themselves, including documentation about every traffic citation they've gotten.

"It's going to create more paperwork unnecessarily," Hobbs said, "because who
hasn't had a traffic ticket?"

He and others fear it's all going to mean longer waits for would-be citizens to
get help from community groups and to have their applications processed by the
INS.

To qualify for citizenship, immigrants must be at least 18 years old and prove
they have lived in the country as a lawful permanent resident for at least five
years. They must be fingerprinted, pass an INS screening process and take an
English-language test about American history and basic civics. Applicants also
must show they can read, speak and write basic English.

Cecilia Kang contributed to this report. Contact Nicole C. Wong at
nwong@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7587.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 19, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Volunteers demystify road toward U.S. citizenship

BYLINE: Nicole C. Wong Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words


More than 1,000 immigrants speaking languages ranging from Spanish to Somali
sought help Saturday sorting through what has become an increasingly complex
application to become a U.S. citizen during Santa Clara County's twice-yearly
event to demystify the process.

Citizenship Day, sponsored by 16 community-based groups working together as the
Santa Clara County Citizenship Collaborative, offered an array of free services
at San Jose City College, including hourlong workshops in 17 languages to
explain the citizenship application process.

But organizers said they're in a tight spot because their government financing
has dwindled as more immigrants are trying to become citizens and citizenship
applications have gotten longer.

Foreign-born citizens made up 12 percent of the Bay Area population in 2000, up
from 8 percent in 1990. And in Santa Clara County, where a third of the 1.7
million residents are immigrants, more and more people are seeking citizenship.

In Northern and central California, applications for citizenship more than
doubled in the three months after Sept. 11 compared with the same period in
2000, following a nationwide trend, according to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Applications climbed 80 percent during the first three
months of this year compared with the same period in 2001.

But community groups worry that it may be harder to help all the limited English
speakers navigate the naturalization process now that Gov. Davis has proposed
budget cuts for the state's Naturalization Services Program. Since 1999, that
program has provided money to groups and government agencies to help more than
38,000 immigrants throughout California.

"The impact in Santa Clara County is the loss of over $100,000 to service
providers," while the time it takes "to help a client fill out a form has
tripled," said Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's Citizenship &
Immigrant Programs.

In January, the four-page naturalization application more than doubled in
length.

"The 10-page form is going to heavily impact the non-profit agencies doing this
work," Hobbs said. "What used to take 20 minutes to fill out now takes an hour
per client."

Applicants now must provide the government with much more information about
themselves, including documentation about every traffic citation they've gotten.

"It's going to create more paperwork unnecessarily," Hobbs said, "because who
hasn't had a traffic ticket?"

He and others fear it's all going to mean longer waits for would-be citizens to
get help from community groups and to have their applications processed by the
INS.

To qualify for citizenship, immigrants must be at least 18 years old and prove
they have lived in the country as a lawful permanent resident for at least five
years. They must be fingerprinted, pass an INS screening process, and take an
English-language test about American history and basic civics. Applicants also
must show they can read, speak and write basic English.

While community groups openly complain about the longer application and limited
government financing this year, many of the people they help hesitate to gripe,
fearing their criticism might jeopardize their chances of being approved for
citizenship.

That's why a 74-year-old Saratoga man didn't want to give his name. He is
waiting to learn the status of his second citizenship application, which he
submitted in January after suffering a snafu with the one he turned in a year
ago.

"The foremost country in the world is so inefficient," he said with
exasperation, adding that he's starting to have second thoughts about becoming a
citizen.

Michelle Do, a 37-year-old immigrant worries that a 24 percent increase in the
application and fingerprint processing fee, which went into effect in February,
may put the $310 price of citizenship out of reach for low-income residents.

"What if people are poor and don't have money?" lamented Do, of San Jose. "They
can never afford it."

In the next row, Hoang Minh Nguyen of San Jose shrugged it off as an important
principle in civics.

Nguyen, 46, said: "In America, nothing's free."

Cecilia Kang contributed to this report. Contact Nicole C. Wong at
nwong@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7587.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 19, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Immigration misgivings grow stronger for Europeans;
NATIONS STRUGGLE WITH IDENTITY

BYLINE: Daniel Rubin Mercury News Berlin Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: BERLIN


Europeans are stressed over immigration, a non-stop influx of people who look
different, speak different languages and often follow a different faith, Islam.
And that tension has changed the political landscape in several countries.

In Dutch elections Wednesday, a party that wanted to bar more Muslims from
moving into the country came from nowhere to win second place. A week before, 6
million French voted for an ultranationalist who laid the nation's problems at
the door of young, poor Arab immigrants crowding suburban housing projects.
Parties hostile toward newcomers now have a hand in governing Italy, Austria and
Denmark.

The anti-immigration sentiment is part of a bigger worry for Europeans that they
are losing their national identities.

In recent years, Europeans have ceded control over political decisions, once
made close to home in places such as Rome and Paris, to Brussels, Belgium, the
gray, bureaucratic home of the 15-country European Union. A dozen of those
countries have given up homemade financial policies to Frankfurt, Germany, where
the European Central Bank directs the new common currency, called the euro.

"Nationhood is under assault in Europe in two ways, one from Brussels and the
other from immigrants," said Mark Kirkorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, a research center that describes its
policy as "pro-immigrant, low-immigration." "And so it is not a surprise the
movements critical of European immigration are also critical of Eurocrats in
Brussels and the euro."

Then there is tradition. America sees itself as an open land of immigrants,
whose strength comes from the integrated sum of its parts. Europe is more like a
fortress, with a venerable tradition to be enjoyed by people who have lived in
one place and speak a common language.

Germany traditionally has defined itself racially, basing citizenship on blood.
Until two years ago, babies born in Germany to foreign residents were not
citizens automatically. Anyone born in the United States, on the other hand, is
entitled automatically to U.S. citizenship.

The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 have had "a capitalizing effect" on wariness
toward foreigners, Muslims in particular, said Hans Enzinger, a professor of
sociology at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Many who attacked
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon had lived in Europe, and publicity about
the extremists next door fed into political campaigns that targeted voters'
anger and insecurity, he said.

"There is no more vital issue in Europe today," author Timothy Garton Ash wrote
of immigration in Thursday's editions of the Guardian newspaper.

Roughly 715,000 migrants arrived in Europe in 2000, according to Phil Martin, an
economist at the University of California-Davis. Half of them were seeking
asylum, claiming persecution at home. It is the promise of political and
religious freedom, in addition to economic possibilities, that draws stowaways
to the freight docks of Zeebrugge, Belgium, or onto ships headed for remote
Mediterranean shores.

These asylum seekers are segregated in their new countries while their
applications are considered. They cannot work while they wait, often for years.

"In Europe, immigrants for the past 25 years have been associated with welfare,
not work," Martin said. "Asylum seekers got housing and food, etc. The
foreign-born have high unemployment rates and welfare participation, so that
reducing immigration can be considered a way to reduce tax costs and
joblessness."

Europe more easily assimilated large numbers of immigrants from eastern and
southern Europe over the past few decades, people who often shared similar
religions and languages. Today, Muslims are the biggest group of European
immigrants, coming from Turkey to Germany, from South Asia to Britain, from
North Africa to France, for instance.

"In Europe, nationhood is based on ethnicity," Kirkorian said. "Including
immigrants into that kind of country is simply more difficult. Muslims are
frankly more different than the Christian population. It is proving uniquely
difficult to assimilate them."

This point is not lost on Muslim leaders. Without more conversations, more
understanding, "we might see crisis leading to explosions," Nadeem Elyas, the
head of Germany's Muslim community, told a conference in Berlin on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 21, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Hijackers' visas approved because of INS failures

BYLINE: Cheryl W. Thompson Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Immigration and Naturalization Service -- which incurred the wrath of
President Bush when it sent notices of visa status changes to two dead
terrorists in March -- should not have approved the changes at all, the Justice
Department's inspector general concluded Monday.

In a far-reaching review of the now-infamous foul-up, Inspector General Glenn
Fine's office found that "widespread failure by many individuals in the INS"
allowed suicide hijackers Mohamed Atta and Marwan Al-Shehhi to obtain student
visa status. The notices were received by a Venice, Fla., flight school March 11
-- exactly six months after the attacks on New York and Washington.

By that time, Atta and Al-Shehhi had long since completed their flight training
and were aboard two separate airliners, presumably as pilots, that slammed into
the twin towers of the World Trade Center, killing at least 2,800 people.

On Monday, Fine's office said that if the INS had followed its own regulations,
Atta and Al-Shehhi's requests would have been rejected because each had left the
country twice while seeking visa status changes. Under longstanding INS policy,
an application is considered "abandoned" if an applicant leaves the United
States while it is pending.

The INS's own computer system contained the information that Atta and Al-Shehhi
had left the United States twice. But the official who adjudicated their visa
changes did not know that because he never checked, the report found.

"The INS's adjudication of Atta's and Al-Shehhi's change-of-status applications
and its notification to the flight school were untimely and significantly
flawed," the report said.

Monday's report also reveals that the flight school official responsible for
certifying the two men's paperwork told Justice Department investigators that
she had just been assigned to the job, received no training from the INS and was
unsure how to fill out the forms.

So she turned to one of the future hijackers, who "directed her on the proper
procedures for filling out the forms," the report found.

Word that the flight school, Huffman Aviation, had received the status change
approvals March 11 touched off vehement condemnation of the INS, which has long
been criticized as one of the most dysfunctional agencies in government. Bush
made no secret of his anger, and Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered an
investigation.

Bush called the INS's action an "inexcusable blunder" and said at a March 13
news conference that he was "stunned, and not happy. Let me put it another way:
I was plenty hot."

Last month, the House overwhelmingly approved a bill that would dismantle the
INS and replace it with separate enforcement and service agencies that would be
part of the Justice Department.

The 188-page report found that the INS waited 10 months to approve requests by
Atta and Al-Shehhi for a change to student visa status and allowed a private
contractor to wait six more months before sending the approvals to the flight
school.

INS Commissioner James Ziglar, who did not return a telephone call seeking
comment Monday, acknowledged to a congressional committee in March that the
contractor, ACS Inc. of London, Ky., was not at fault; it was following INS
policy.

Victor Cerda, Ziglar's acting chief of staff, called the report "accurate" and
said the agency has changed some rules governing foreign students. "We'll review
the IG's report and use it as a management tool," Cerda said.

Cerda declined to say whether disciplinary action will be taken against the
adjudicator and others involved.

The inspector general's report found that after the Sept. 11 attacks, the INS
gathered Atta's and Al-Shehhi's files for the FBI but that "no one in the INS
located -- or even considered locating -- the notification forms that were being
processed by the INS contractor."

The report also found that the INS's system for monitoring and tracking foreign
students is "antiquated and inadequate" and questioned whether a congressionally
mandated Internet-based system to improve student tracking will be fully
implemented by the January 2003 deadline.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 24, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

INS targets dangerous border crossings

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 307 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday unveiled an array of new
measures and high-tech devices to heighten security and safety along some of the
most porous and dangerous stretches of the U.S.-Mexican border.

The changes focus on California's Imperial Valley, which has become an
increasingly popular but perilous crossing point since a crackdown on illegal
immigration closer to the Pacific Ocean.

Key elements of the federal government's new strategy include deployment of
hovercraft and horseback units to patrol the All American Canal, stepped up
helicopter surveillance, extended testing of non-lethal pepper ball launchers,
and installation of six "rescue beacons" in the desert outside Yuma, Ariz.

The beacons are 30-foot-tall towers designed to emit a distress signal and are
capped with strobe lights that can be spotted five miles away.

A metal plate posted at the base advises migrants in English and Spanish: "If
you need help, push red button. U.S. Border Patrol will arrive in 1 hour. Do not
leave this location."

Many of the measures will target the Imperial Valley, a region crisscrossed by
irrigation waterways including the swift-moving All American Canal, where 17
people have drowned since Oct. 1.

The systems were announced by INS Commissioner James Ziglar during a tour of
U.S. Border Patrol operations in Tucson and Yuma in Arizona, and Calexico and
San Ysidro in California.

"These latest steps represent a major breakthrough in the ongoing effort to make
the southern border safer for the people of both nations," Ziglar said.

Ziglar also announced an unprecedented agreement between the United States and
Mexico to establish an "intelligence cell" in the El Centro area with a mission
of helping identify, arrest and prosecute migrant smugglers on both sides of the
border.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        May 28, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Pull the plug on the INS

BYLINE: Joseph Perkins

SECTION: B; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 731 words


JAMES Ziglar ought to find another job. Not because he has acquitted himself
poorly as the Bush administration's commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, but because he inherited a beleaguered bureaucracy
hopelessly beyond reform that ought to be dismantled.

Two new reports last week, from the inspector generals of the Social Security
Administration and the Justice Department, provide fresh evidence.

The Social Security Administration's inspector general reported that tens of
thousands of foreign nationals are using fake documents to fraudulently obtain
Social Security numbers. INS issues many of the documents non-Americans use to
show they are eligible for Social Security cards -- including
arrival-and-departure forms, visas and green cards.

Since Sept. 11, the Social Security Administration has asked the immigration
agency to help verify that the foreign identity documents it is presented are
authentic before Social Security issues cards to non-citizens.

However, said James Huse, Social Security's inspector general, the INS has not
been much help.

Which is profoundly troubling because, as his report noted, "The tragedies of
Sept. 11 demonstrate that the misuse of Social Security numbers and identity
theft are 'breeder' offenses with the ability to facilitate crimes beyond our
imagination."

Indeed, since Sept. 11, federal law-enforcement authorities have apprehended a
frightening number of foreign nationals who have used Social Security numbers to
get airport security badges, providing access to airplanes and restricted areas.

The Transportation Department reports that 367 workers have been arrested at 16
airports, including 130 right in the nation's Capitol.

Which is cause for alarm among lawmakers on Capitol Hill. It's "extremely
dangerous," said Sen. Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican, "when criminals and
terrorists are able to use Social Security numbers to infiltrate American
society."

Meanwhile, a report by the Justice Department's inspector general suggests that
the INS improperly allowed the terrorist Mohamed Atta to re-enter the United
States eight months before the Sept. 11 attacks, despite questions about his
visa status.

Atta, who piloted the jet that hurtled into the World Trade Center's north
tower, should have been turned away in January of last year at the U.S. entry
point in Miami because his application for a student visa had not yet been
approved.

"There was a laxity in the system," said Glenn Fine, Justice's inspector
general, in an interview with the Los Angeles Times. "This shows (that the INS)
did not scrutinize students closely at the time and did not consider them to be
a big risk."

And recent evidence suggests that the system remains lax even after the attacks
on the World Trade Center and Pentagon.

The Justice Department report, said Rep. James Sensenbrenner, the Wisconsin
Republican who chairs the House Judiciary Committee, exposes the "dramatic
failure" of INS administrators "to provide clear guidance, policies and
procedures to its front-line employees."

But is there anyone, save for maybe INS Commissioner Ziglar, who believes the
INS can be reformed?

The hard truth that Grassley, Sensenbrenner and their fellow lawmakers now
recognize is that the agency's problems are endemic -- that the INS must be
abolished and its functions turned over to spin-off agencies that can operate
under a different organizational culture.

In fact, the House voted overwhelmingly last month to pull the plug on the INS
and replace it with two separate bureaus, one of which would handle services for
immigrants, the other enforcement of immigration laws.

The only quibble with the otherwise praiseworthy legislation is that it would
place both the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services and Bureau of
Immigration Enforcement under the Justice Department, with associate attorney
generals running the two agencies.

But Justice really is not the best department to oversee immigration services.
Better that it falls under the State Department or perhaps a fully cabinet-level
Department of Homeland Security.

But even if the separate bureaus are, ultimately, under Justice, it would still
be a welcome change. Because the INS, as currently structured, is doomed to
continued failure.

Joseph Perkins is a columnist for the San Diego Union-Tribune.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 5, 2002 Wednesday F1 EDITION

Stabbing suspect seized aboard plane

BYLINE: Ben Winograd Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 196 words


Authorities boarded a flight from Germany on Tuesday and arrested a Cupertino
man in connection with a near-fatal stabbing during a brawl in a Los Gatos park
a year ago.

Officers from the Los Gatos police, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and
Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested 22-year-old Mehdi Navid on a
Lufthansa flight at San Francisco International Airport, said Los Gatos Sgt. Tim
Morgan.

Navid is the fifth suspect arrested after the brawl last June at Oak Meadow Park
in Los Gatos, which started after a dispute at a graduation party.

Navid is accused of trying to stab eight men from the other group, Morgan said.
He faces eight charges of assault with a deadly weapon and a federal charge for
avoiding prosecution, Morgan said.

In August, police arrested another suspect in the stabbing, Rasa Rezai, at San
Francisco Airport after he arrived from Iran.

Navid fled to his native Iran two days after the stabbing, Morgan said. The INS
flagged his name after he booked a flight this week. Immigration officials
notified Los Gatos police Tuesday morning that Navid planned to arrive on a
flight from Frankfurt about 4:30 p.m., Morgan said.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 6, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Rights groups quick to attack planned registration system

BYLINE: David E. Early and Sarah Lubman Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words


Stepping up condemnation of a Justice Department proposal to fingerprint,
photograph and track new U.S. visitors, immigrant and civil rights groups
Wednesday said the plan would institute widespread racial profiling, waste
resources and fan the flames of cultural paranoia and religious intolerance.

The National Entry-Exit Registration System, unveiled and described Wednesday by
Attorney General John Ashcroft as a necessary security measure, is expected to
be launched in the fall and affect more than 100,000 visa holders.

Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union condemned the plan as
divisive, saying, "This is casting suspicion on the Arab and Muslim community of
this country, whose members are law-abiding and are also victims of the
terrorist attacks."

Guttentag, national director of the ACLU's Immigrant Rights Project, added,
"This kind of proposal, based on nationality, ethnicity and religion, undermines
the fairness of the investigation. It tells the immigrant community that it
should fear the government rather than cooperate with it."

Muhammad Abu-Haneefa, a member of American Muslims for Global Peace and Justice
in Santa Clara, had stronger opinions. "I think it's absolutely shocking. It's
blatant racial profiling, it's collective punishment, and it's a disservice to
the American public," he said, arguing that the Bush administration is trying to
avert attention from recent missteps.

But others supported the proposal.

Curt Levey, of the conservative Center for Individual Rights, said, "The
Constitution erects a high obstacle to classifying people based on race, and for
good reason -- it's been used for all sorts of evil things."

Levey, spokesman for the Washington, D.C.-based public-interest law firm that
has led the legal attack against affirmative action, added: "We have repeatedly
said that we don't believe the right mix of skin colors on campus is a
compelling state interest. However, if the state can prove that there's a
compelling interest based on national security, we'd support it."

Michael Ledeen, American Enterprise Institute scholar and former national
security adviser to President Ronald Reagan, was more firm. "In general, I think
racial profiling is a bogus issue. If you find that three-quarters of the
terrorists came from Saudi Arabia, you're going to want to watch the Saudis."

Immigration law scholars said the new rules aren't unusual in American history,
which includes a number of roundups for ethnic, political and economic reasons.

The Palmer Raids of the 1920s -- during the red scare -- kicked out foreign
communist sympathizers. The Smith Act of 1940 required aliens to register and be
fingerprinted, and penalized anyone who advocated overthrowing or destroying the
government by force. And under "Operation Wetback" in 1954, thousands of migrant
workers from Mexico were kicked out of the country, including some legal
residents and U.S. citizens.

"In my opinion, all of those historical incidents have been viewed as being
overreaching," said Bill Ong Hing, professor of law and Asian studies at the
University of California-Davis. "Every time you do something like that, you go
back a few years later and realize you went too far."

Gopalan Nair, an immigration attorney in Fremont, put it another way.

"It's trying to crack a nut with a sledgehammer," said the Hindu from Singapore.

Helal Omeira of the Northern California Council on American-Islamic Relations
called the plan misguided, considering homeland terrorism since Sept. 11.

"The big anthrax scares were non-Muslim, non-Arab; a bomb plot involved the
American Jewish Defense League; and that smiley-face guy touring the Midwest was
not from the Middle East and neither was that mentally ill boy who flew the
plane into the Bank of America building in Florida," Omeira said. "I'd feel
better if law enforcement worked on real cases instead of getting more
information they don't know what to do with."

Richard Boswell, a professor at the University of California's Hastings College
of the Law, called the new tracking plans "overboard" and probably ineffective.

"Like a lot of things going on, they seem to be designed for the appearance of
security instead of actually identifying people," he said.

But Boswell predicted the tracking plan would survive any legal challenges. "It
will probably be attacked if it relates to permanent residents," he said. But if
the government's reason is to prevent terrorism, "my guess is the court might
allow it."

Mercury News staff writers Pete Carey and Pat Lopes Harris contributed to this
report. Contact David E. Early at dearly@sjmercury. com or (408) 920-5836.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        June 10, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

George Villalobos, founded weekly Spanish paper;
WITH HIS WIFE, SARAH, HE BEGAN AND RAN COUNSELING SERVICE FOR LATINO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Dennis Knight Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. OBT

LENGTH: 735 words


George Villalobos got his first taste of running a business as the owner of G.V.
Landscaping in the 1960s. His company did the aesthetic work around San
Francisco International Airport and the Ford and General Motors plants in
Milpitas.

Mr. Villalobos went on to become a successful entrepreneur and community
activist in East San Jose. His family says he used the same business philosophy
he developed at G.V. Landscaping: to make something grow successfully requires
hard work and attention to detail.

Giving back to the community was a priority, and he managed to combine his
passion for his Latino heritage with his business sense by starting an
immigration counseling service and serving the Latino community for the past 22
years.

In 1989, Mr. Villalobos founded a weekly Spanish newspaper, the Alianza
Metropolitan News, with a weekly circulation of 40,000 in San Jose and the Bay
Area.

Mr. Villalobos died Tuesday at Stanford University Hospital from complications
of heart disease. He was 67.

"My father was a firm believer in gaining experience on the job. He thought hard
work and vision would net results," said his son Anthony Villalobos. "He never
took a journalism class. He started his paper from the ground up, learned how to
chase national and local ads, and ended up with an award-winning publication."

Born in New Mexico, he grew up in the Mexican town of Villa Corona, where his
family raised cattle and harvested sugar cane. He returned to the United States
when he was 16, eventually settling in Palo Alto, where he graduated from high
school.

Mr. Villalobos worked a series of jobs, including as a cook at Stickney's
Restaurant in Palo Alto before a stint in the Army. He returned to the Bay Area
and served as an army reservist at the Presidio until 1964.

Landscaping businesses

After establishing a home on the East Side of San Jose, he ran G.V. Landscaping,
which became G.V. Paving and Excavating through the 1960s.

He also became involved in community work, helping to create the San Jose
chapter of the G.I. Forum, serving as chairman of the Tropicana neighborhood
association and as a founder of the Model Cities program. He also made an
unsuccessful run at a city council seat.

A lifelong soccer fan, he sponsored local youth teams and was able to hear from
his family about Mexico's World Cup 1-0 victory over Croatia early Monday
morning, his son Michael said.

With two partners, Mr. Villalobos helped invigorate East San Jose by opening the
Pink Elephant Supermarket on King Road. He later opened Chaparral Supermarket
behind San Jose High School and sold that in 1974.

Then came a wholesale produce company, Teksun, which he ran from 1976 to 1986.
In the early 1980s, he started Alianza Immigration and Counseling Service with
his wife, Sarah.

Counseling service

The company helped immigrants get through the bureaucracy of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to gain citizenship, and it is still being run by his
wife as Immigration and Counseling Services with Sarita.

"They started out by helping one individual, and by word of mouth the business
grew," Anthony Villalobos said. "They did it in an altruistic manner, charging
small fees for initial consultations. Their legacy is supporting the American
Dream. All the people my parents helped are now having children who are born
U.S. citizens."

Mr. Villalobos used his newspaper to channel his passion for Mexican history and
to teach the Latino community about American politics and society. Now the job
of publishing the paper will belong to his son, Michael.

"I learned about business and marketing from my father since I was 8 years old,
selling avocados," Michael Villalobos said. "Even at the end, from his hospital
bed, he was calling back newspaper advertising clients and making sure articles
got into the paper.

"To him, family was everything. And as partners in business, we also spent that
time together as a family."

George Villalobos

Born: Feb. 28, 1935, in Santa Fe, N.M.

Died: June 4, 2002, at Stanford University Hospital.

Survived by: Wife, Sarah Villalobos of San Jose; sons Michael of San Jose,
Anthony of San Ramon and Gary of Modesto; and five grandchildren.

Services: Have been held.

Memorial: Donations may be made to the George Villalobos Scholarship Fund, c/o
Alianza Metropolitan News, 1865 Decatur Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95122.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      June 12, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Marriage certificate requirement deciphered

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words


Q I am in the process of applying for my citizenship. I will need to submit my
current marriage certificate. What does the Immigration and Naturalization
Service mean by "current?" Can I use the marriage certificate I received years
ago when I first got married? Or do I have to request a new certified copy to
show that I am still married to the same person? The INS package includes a note
saying that a statement must be signed and dated by the applicant regarding
submitting copies of original documents. Do I have to include that statement on
each copy of original documents I am submitting (such as a copy of my green card
and a copy of my husband's birth certificate)? Josephine C. Milpitas

A When the INS asks you for your current marriage license, it means that it
wants to see the marriage license issued when you married your current spouse.
Be sure to send certified copies -- not the original -- with your signature.

Q Form I-130 says that when a petition is approved for an immediate relative --
the husband, wife, parent or unmarried minor of a U.S. citizen -- the relative
does not have to wait for a visa number because he or she is not subject to the
immigrant visa limit. However, there has been no response from the INS for an
application filed for visas for parents in February. How long does it take for
such visas to be issued? Can you tell up to what period applications in this
category have been cleared and how many applications are generally cleared in a
month? Suman

A Those petitions are processed by the California Service Center in Laguna
Niguel. The center is processing I-130 petitions for immediate relatives that
were submitted in August 2001. When the INS says that certain relatives are
immediately eligible, it means that their petitions will be accepted immediately
-- not that there is no backlog for adjudication. The applicant should check
with the service center on long-overdue petitions but should probably not
unnecessarily burden the system about applications that have been waiting a few
months.

Q I'm here on a non-immigrant visa. How would my status change if I were to
marry a U.S. citizen? What would I have to do to become a permanent resident?
Anonymous

A Spouses of U.S. citizens are immediately eligible to get their "green card."
They are considered "immediate relatives" and are exempt from numerical quota
limitations. It might take as long as a year to process the paperwork, but you
can be eligible to work and travel right after you file the appropriate
paperwork. The fees for filing and processing total about $550.

Q My mother-in-law is visiting us with a tourist visa. We would like to extend
her stay, and we sent form I-539 to the INS about four months before the
expiration of her current six-month visa. (The recommendation on the INS Web
site is to send the form about 45 days before the expiration of the visa.) A
month and a half later, we received a letter from the INS that her request will
be processed in about 365 days! What are we supposed to do? Hristo Tonev

A Those letters say the request will be adjudicated within 365 days. During the
period of adjudication, the individual is considered to be within status. If the
request is subsequently denied, then the individual will have to leave the
country.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 13, 2002 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Ex-SCU janitor mops up honors as graduate

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


Having just poured himself a cup of coffee, Juan Rubalcava found himself
surrounded by cafeteria workers at Santa Clara University. Weeks ago, they might
have asked him to mop the floor, but those days are over.

"Congratulations," one of them said. When one worker looked puzzled and asked
what the hullabaloo was all about, another one said, "He's graduating this week
. . . from this school."

Not just graduating, but graduating magna cum laude with a degree in computer
science and mathematics -- and on Saturday, only two days after his 34th
birthday. Not a bad birthday gift for the former campus janitor and illegal
immigrant.

"I'm sometimes surprised by the attention," Rubalcava said.

As America casts a suspicious eye toward immigrants after the terrorist attacks
on Sept. 11, this soft-spoken man with bright eyes under droopy eyelids is a
quiet reminder of the millions of newcomers who did good things before him and
could do well after him.

Jumps the border

I first wrote about Rubalcava in 1998. He recently had enrolled at Santa Clara
through a reduced-tuition program for employees, four years after arriving at
the Jesuit school to clean offices, classrooms and toilets, and 17 years after
jumping the border from his native Mexico to pick fruit in Gilroy.

He since has become a U.S. citizen and somewhat of a hero to Silicon Valley's
janitors, many of them Latino immigrants. On campus, however, he tried to simply
blend in as a student during the day and to do his job at night, but separating
his two lives wasn't so easy.

"It was not a nice pleasure sometimes to be seen by some of my classmates
sweeping or cleaning restrooms," he said, adding that the encounters were more
awkward than condescending. "Sometimes I wanted to be funny and told them that I
worked cleaning up their mess."

Like most of Rubalcava's professors, the Rev. Dennis Smolarski didn't know one
of his students was a janitor.

"I was walking to some offices one night when I saw him cleaning," Smolarski
said. "When I realized he was a university janitor, I said to myself, 'This is
somebody who is trying to take his God-given gifts and use them.' I admire him
for that."

Rubalcava accumulated a 3.7 grade-point average and made the Phi Beta Kappa
honors society. As an Epsilon honors student in mathematics, he spent two
volunteer hours each week tutoring other students. His academic achievements
become even more inspiring considering competition for his time and his disabled
mother's illness.

"The most difficult part was the time I had to take my mom to the hospital, had
to go to work and had to study for a midterm examination at the same time."

While you could lump that crisis in the life-happens department, the
university's maintenance office nearly ended Rubalcava's college education by
switching him to the day shift. Only pleas from his professors and counselors to
the university president's office stopped the transfer, but the unpleasant
experience convinced him to hurry and graduate.

Concentrates on classes

He quit his janitorial job in September to study full time, relied on his
sister, Araceli, for financial help, and completed his degree requirements in
December. Ironically, all that bought him was a spot in the line of unemployed
computer workers in a depressed technology economy. Since then, he's passed on
one solid job offer from an Oregon company because the move would have been hard
on his disabled mother.

Even so, he remains upbeat, wouldn't mind teaching math part time and already is
thinking about a doctorate degree in math down the road. He occasionally is
asked to sum up his path from illegal immigrant to magna cum laude, a question
he turns into advice for other immigrants:

"Don't despair. These things happen slowly. Just keep working hard and studying
what you love in school, and the doors of opportunity will open."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 13, 2002 Thursday F1 EDITION

Ex-SCU janitor mops up honors as graduate

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


Having just poured himself a cup of coffee, Juan Rubalcava found himself
surrounded by cafeteria workers at Santa Clara University. Weeks ago, they might
have asked him to mop the floor, but those days are over.

"Congratulations," one of them said. When one worker looked puzzled and asked
what the hullabaloo was all about, another one said, "He's graduating this week
. . . from this school."

Not just graduating, but graduating magna cum laude with a degree in computer
science and mathematics -- and on Saturday, only two days after his 34th
birthday. Not a bad birthday gift for the former campus janitor and illegal
immigrant.

"I'm sometimes surprised by the attention," Rubalcava said.

As America casts a suspicious eye toward immigrants after the terrorist attacks
on Sept. 11, this soft-spoken man with bright eyes under droopy eyelids is a
quiet reminder of the millions of newcomers who did good things before him and
could do well after him.

Jumps the border

I first wrote about Rubalcava in 1998. He recently had enrolled at Santa Clara
through a reduced-tuition program for employees, four years after arriving at
the Jesuit school to clean offices, classrooms and toilets, and 17 years after
jumping the border from his native Mexico to pick fruit in Gilroy.

He since has become a U.S. citizen and somewhat of a hero to Silicon Valley's
janitors, many of them Latino immigrants. On campus, however, he tried to simply
blend in as a student during the day and to do his job at night, but separating
his two lives wasn't so easy.

"It was not a nice pleasure sometimes to be seen by some of my classmates
sweeping or cleaning restrooms," he said, adding that the encounters were more
awkward than condescending. "Sometimes I wanted to be funny and told them that I
worked cleaning up their mess."

Like most of Rubalcava's professors, the Rev. Dennis Smolarski didn't know one
of his students was a janitor.

"I was walking to some offices one night when I saw him cleaning," Smolarski
said. "When I realized he was a university janitor, I said to myself, 'This is
somebody who is trying to take his God-given gifts and use them.' I admire him
for that."

Rubalcava accumulated a 3.7 grade-point average and made the Phi Beta Kappa
honors society. As an Epsilon honors student in mathematics, he spent two
volunteer hours each week tutoring other students. His academic achievements
become even more inspiring considering competition for his time and his disabled
mother's illness.

"The most difficult part was the time I had to take my mom to the hospital, had
to go to work and had to study for a midterm examination at the same time."

While you could lump that crisis in the life-happens department, the
university's maintenance office nearly ended Rubalcava's college education by
switching him to the day shift. Only pleas from his professors and counselors to
the university president's office stopped the transfer, but the unpleasant
experience convinced him to hurry and graduate.

Concentrates on classes

He quit his janitorial job in September to study full time, relied on his
sister, Araceli, for financial help, and completed his degree requirements in
December. Ironically, all that bought him was a spot in the line of unemployed
computer workers in a depressed technology economy. Since then, he's passed on
one solid job offer from an Oregon company because the move would have been hard
on his disabled mother.

Even so, he remains upbeat, wouldn't mind teaching math part time and already is
thinking about a doctorate degree in math down the road. He occasionally is
asked to sum up his path from illegal immigrant to magna cum laude, a question
he turns into advice for other immigrants:

"Don't despair. These things happen slowly. Just keep working hard and studying
what you love in school, and the doors of opportunity will open."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 13, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Ex-SCU janitor mops up honors as graduate

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 661 words


Having just poured himself a cup of coffee, Juan Rubalcava found himself
surrounded by cafeteria workers at Santa Clara University. Weeks ago, they might
have asked him to mop the floor, but those days are over.

"Congratulations," one of them said. When one worker looked puzzled and asked
what the hullabaloo was all about, another one said, "He's graduating this week
. . . from this school."

Not just graduating, but graduating magna cum laude with a degree in computer
science and mathematics -- and on Saturday, only two days after his 34th
birthday. Not a bad birthday gift for the former campus janitor and illegal
immigrant.

"I'm sometimes surprised by the attention," Rubalcava said.

As America casts a suspicious eye toward immigrants after the terrorist attacks
on Sept. 11, this soft-spoken man with bright eyes under droopy eyelids is a
quiet reminder of the millions of newcomers who did good things before him and
could do well after him.

Jumps the border

I first wrote about Rubalcava in 1998. He recently had enrolled at Santa Clara
through a reduced-tuition program for employees, four years after arriving at
the Jesuit school to clean offices, classrooms and toilets, and 17 years after
jumping the border from his native Mexico to pick fruit in Gilroy.

He since has become a U.S. citizen and somewhat of a hero to Silicon Valley's
janitors, many of them Latino immigrants. On campus, however, he tried to simply
blend in as a student during the day and to do his job at night, but separating
his two lives wasn't so easy.

"It was not a nice pleasure sometimes to be seen by some of my classmates
sweeping or cleaning restrooms," he said, adding that the encounters were more
awkward than condescending. "Sometimes I wanted to be funny and told them that I
worked cleaning up their mess."

Like most of Rubalcava's professors, the Rev. Dennis Smolarski didn't know one
of his students was a janitor.

"I was walking to some offices one night when I saw him cleaning," Smolarski
said. "When I realized he was a university janitor, I said to myself, 'This is
somebody who is trying to take his God-given gifts and use them.' I admire him
for that."

Rubalcava accumulated a 3.7 grade-point average and made the Phi Beta Kappa
honors society. As an Epsilon honors student in mathematics, he spent two
volunteer hours each week tutoring other students. His academic achievements
become even more inspiring considering competition for his time and his disabled
mother's illness.

"The most difficult part was the time I had to take my mom to the hospital, had
to go to work and had to study for a midterm examination at the same time."

While you could lump that crisis in the life-happens department, the
university's maintenance office nearly ended Rubalcava's college education by
switching him to the day shift. Only pleas from his professors and counselors to
the university president's office stopped the transfer, but the unpleasant
experience convinced him to hurry and graduate.

Concentrates on classes

He quit his janitorial job in September to study full time, relied on his
sister, Araceli, for financial help, and completed his degree requirements in
December. Ironically, all that bought him was a spot in the line of unemployed
computer workers in a depressed technology economy. Since then, he's passed on
one solid job offer from an Oregon company because the move would have been hard
on his disabled mother.

Even so, he remains upbeat, wouldn't mind teaching math part time and already is
thinking about a doctorate degree in math down the road. He occasionally is
asked to sum up his path from illegal immigrant to magna cum laude, a question
he turns into advice for other immigrants:

"Don't despair. These things happen slowly. Just keep working hard and studying
what you love in school, and the doors of opportunity will open."

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 18, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

SANTA CRUZ COUNTY

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553 words


Supervisors to consider Mexican ID acceptance

The Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors will decide today whether to make
Mexican identification cards a valid form of ID.

That would make it easier for Mexicans to open bank accounts, get a library
card, book flights or cross the border. If passed, it would require county
departments to accept the "matricula consular," a photo ID issued by the Mexican
Consulate, as valid ID. The cards are already accepted in many U.S. communities.

Supervisor Tony Campos, who proposed the law, said immigrants find it hard to
obtain an ID in the United States. Local immigrants have asked the county to
accept matriculas so they can establish their identity to police, especially
during emergencies.

The popular cards have been issued by the Mexican Consulate since 1870. Since
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, immigrants view them as a reliable way to prove
their identity for fear of harassment by law enforcement, Campos said.

STANFORD

More than $1.7 million given to kids' groups

The Lucile Packard Foundation for Children's Health awarded more than $1.7
million to local non-profit groups that serve children, the foundation announced
Monday.

The foundation focuses on groups that emphasize protecting young children from
abuse and neglect and promoting health among preteens. Some of the local
recipients were the Big Brothers Big Sisters of San Francisco and the Peninsula;
Family Connections; Mid-Peninsula Boys & Girls Club; the Volunteer Center of San
Mateo County; Friends for Youth; KidPower, TeenPower, FullPower International;
and Unity Care Group.

DALY CITY

Police say remains were those of Asian woman

A woman whose badly decomposed body was found dismembered in a Daly City
self-storage unit June 7 was young and Asian, police said Monday.

A forensic anthropologist determined that she was 18 to 23 years old and
5-foot-1 to 5-foot-3 inches tall with a petite build, said Sgt. Don Griggs.

She has not been identified but her dental information is going to the state
Department of Justice database to determine whether it matches records of any
missing person, Griggs said.

If there is no match, police may try to create a mold of the woman's face, in
the hope that someone may recognize her reconstructed likeness. Police may also
see whether the woman's DNA matches that of families of missing Asian, Griggs
said. No such families have come forward, he said.

Anyone with information is encouraged to call Daly City police at (650)
991-8119.

SALINAS

Student winner of car now may learn to drive

Alisal High School graduate Vanessa Lopez won a new car but there's a problem:
She can't drive.

Lopez, 18, who graduated Thursday, won a 2002 Hyundai Accent on Sunday in a
giveaway at Salinas Hyundai, which offered the car to students who attended
all-night sober graduation events at their high schools.

Lopez and five other students from Salinas-area schools were finalists for the
car after their names were selected in a drawing.

"I didn't think I was going to win," said Lopez, who is now eager to get her
driver's license.

Lopez, who will attend the nursing program at Hartnell College this fall, said
her father will help her learn how to drive the manual-transmission car.

From Mercury News staff reports

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 22, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants without visas re-arrested

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 164 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J. (AP)


For years, foreigners arrested in the United States for overstaying their visas
have often been let go with a promise that they leave the country. Not
surprising, many never did leave.

For the past six months, however, the government has been quietly re-arresting
many of these "absconders" on a U.S. Justice Department list about 1,000 names
long.

As of Friday, 708 of the approximately 1,000 people on the government list had
been arrested under what is being called the Alien Absconder Apprehension
Initiative, INS official Nancy Cohen said.

INS official Russ Bergeron and others in the INS would not say whether any of
those arrested had links to terrorism.

Attorneys for immigrants said the government is arresting foreigners to give the
appearance it is winning the war on terror.

"It's just a public-relations stunt," said Sohail Mohammed, an immigration
lawyer who has represented many New Jersey detainees caught in the government's
post-Sept. 11 sweep.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 27, 2002 Thursday PS1 EDITION

Man pleads guilty to visa fraud;
DEAL FOR TWO-YEAR SENTENCE OUTRAGES RIGHTS ACTIVISTS

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 353 words


The son of a wealthy Berkeley landlord pleaded guilty Wednesday to one count of
visa fraud conspiracy for his role in illegally bringing dozens of immigrants to
the Bay Area for work and sex.

Under the plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, Vijay Lakireddy would
spend two years in prison -- a fact that outraged a small group of Berkeley
women's rights activists who have attended many court hearings bearing picket
signs that allege his family's wealth is the reason other family members have
received light punishments.

"This is a small rap on the knuckles," said Diana Russell, a professor emeritus
of sociology at Mills College. "What is it saying about sex slavery? It is just
so outrageous that it's been plea-bargained down to so little. I'm just
appalled."

After the hearing, Vijay Lakireddy would only say: "I love my friends, and I
love my country."

Telling U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken that the facts of a new
one-count indictment against him were true, Lakireddy admitted he used fake
visas from October 1997 to December 1999 to bring over immigrants from his
family's home village of Velvadam, India, to work in his father's apartments and
popular Pasand restaurants in Berkeley and Santa Clara.

The young girls were also forced to have sex with family members, including his
father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, who last year was sentenced to eight years in
prison for being the ringleader of the scheme.

At one point, Vijay Lakireddy had faced 21 felony charges. But he pleaded guilty
Wednesday to one charge -- that he brought Venkateswara Vemireddy to the United
States on an illegal visa on March 25, 1998.

Vijay Lakireddy also admitted he brought over two young girls, known as victims
2 and 3, who he knew would work in poor conditions and have sex against their
will.

Vijay Lakireddy was not accused of being violent or coercing these girls, only
that he probably knew what would happen to these non-English-speaking, low-caste
girls who were dependent on his father for housing and food.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 27, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Man pleads guilty in sex, visas case;
TWO-YEAR PRISON SENTENCE ANGERS RIGHTS ACTIVISTS

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words


The son of a wealthy Berkeley landlord pleaded guilty Wednesday to one count of
visa fraud conspiracy for his role in illegally bringing dozens of immigrants to
the Bay Area for work and sex.

Under the plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, Vijay Lakireddy would
spend two years in prison -- a fact that outraged a small group of Berkeley
women's rights activists who have attended many court hearings bearing picket
signs that allege his family's wealth is the reason other family members have
received light punishments.

"This is a small rap on the knuckles," said Diana Russell, a professor emeritus
of sociology at Mills College. "What is it saying about sex slavery? It is just
so outrageous that it's been plea bargained down to so little. I'm just
appalled."

After the hearing, Vijay Lakireddy would only say: "I love my friends, and I
love my country."

Telling U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken that the facts of a new
one-count indictment against him were true, Lakireddy admitted he used fake
visas from October 1997 to December 1999 to bring over immigrants from his
family's home village of Velvadam, India, to work in his father's apartments and
popular Pasand restaurants in Berkeley and Santa Clara.

The young girls were also forced to have sex with family members, including his
father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, who last year was sentenced to eight years in
prison for being the ringleader of the scheme.

At one point, Vijay Lakireddy had faced 21 felony charges. But he pleaded guilty
Wednesday to one charge -- that he brought Venkateswara Vemireddy to the United
States on an illegal visa on March 25, 1998.

Vijay Lakireddy also admitted he brought over two young girls, known as victims
2 and 3, who he knew would work in poor conditions and have sex against their
will.

Vijay Lakireddy was not accused of being violent or coercing these girls, only
that he probably knew what would happen to these non-English-speaking, low-caste
girls who were dependent on his father for housing and food.

The plea came unexpectedly, as both Vijay Lakireddy and his brother, Prasad
Lakireddy, had proclaimed their innocence for more than two years.

Prasad Lakireddy is scheduled for a January trial.

The two other family members who made deals with the government are the
brothers' uncle and aunt, Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy, who were
sentenced, respectively, to a year in a halfway house and six months of home
detention for their roles in signing false visas.

As part of the deals, the Alameda County District Attorney's Office also agreed
not to prosecute the family for rape and murder. One victim died of carbon
monoxide poisoning in November 1999 in a Reddy-owned apartment, touching off the
entire investigation, and all four male relatives were charged with traveling
with minors for the purposes of having sex.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 27, 2002 Thursday F1 EDITION

Man pleads guilty in sex, visas case

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 358 words


The son of a wealthy Berkeley landlord pleaded guilty Wednesday to one count of
visa fraud conspiracy for his role in illegally bringing dozens of immigrants to
the Bay Area for work and sex.

Under the plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, Vijay Lakireddy would
spend two years in prison -- a fact that outraged a small group of Berkeley
women's rights activists who have attended many court hearings bearing picket
signs that allege his family's wealth is the reason other family members have
received light punishments.

"This is a small rap on the knuckles," said Diana Russell, a professor emeritus
of sociology at Mills College. "What is it saying about sex slavery? It is just
so outrageous that it's been plea bargained down to so little. I'm just
appalled."

After the hearing, Vijay Lakireddy would only say: "I love my friends, and I
love my country."

Telling U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken that the facts of a new
one-count indictment against him were true, Lakireddy admitted he used fake
visas from October 1997 to December 1999 to bring over immigrants from his
family's home village of Velvadam, India, to work in his father's apartments and
popular Pasand restaurants in Berkeley and Santa Clara.

The young girls were also forced to have sex with family members, including his
father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, who last year was sentenced to eight years in
prison for being the ringleader of the scheme.

At one point, Vijay Lakireddy had faced 21 felony charges. But he pleaded guilty
Wednesday to one charge -- that he brought Venkateswara Vemireddy to the United
States on an illegal visa on March 25, 1998.

The plea came unexpectedly, as both Vijay Lakireddy and his brother, Prasad
Lakireddy, had proclaimed their innocence for more than two years.

Prasad Lakireddy is scheduled for a January trial.

As part of the deals, the Alameda County District Attorney's Office also agreed
not to prosecute the family for rape and murder. One victim died of carbon
monoxide poisoning in November 1999 in a Reddy-owned apartment.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 27, 2002 Thursday A1 EDITION

Man pleads guilty to forging visas in work, sex plot;
DEAL FOR TWO-YEAR SENTENCE OUTRAGES RIGHTS ACTIVISTS

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 638 words


The son of a wealthy Berkeley landlord pleaded guilty Wednesday to one count of
visa fraud conspiracy for his role in illegally bringing dozens of immigrants to
the Bay Area for work and sex.

Under the plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, Vijay Lakireddy would
spend two years in prison -- a fact that outraged a small group of Berkeley
women's rights activists who have attended many court hearings bearing picket
signs that allege his family's wealth is the reason other family members have
received light punishments.

"This is a small rap on the knuckles," said Diana Russell, a professor emeritus
of sociology at Mills College. "What is it saying about sex slavery? It is just
so outrageous that it's been plea bargained down to so little. I'm just
appalled."

After the hearing, Vijay Lakireddy would only say: "I love my friends, and I
love my country."

Telling U.S. District Court Judge Claudia Wilken that the facts of a new
one-count indictment against him were true, Lakireddy admitted he used fake
visas from October 1997 to December 1999 to bring over immigrants from his
family's home village of Velvadam, India, to work in his father's apartments and
popular Pasand restaurants in Berkeley and Santa Clara.

The young girls were also forced to have sex with family members, including his
father, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, who last year was sentenced to eight years in
prison for being the ringleader of the scheme.

At one point, Vijay Lakireddy had faced 21 felony charges. But he pleaded guilty
Wednesday to one charge -- that he brought Venkateswara Vemireddy to the United
States on an illegal visa on March 25, 1998.

Vijay Lakireddy also admitted he brought over two young girls, known as victims
2 and 3, who he knew would work in poor conditions and have sex against their
will.

Vijay Lakireddy was not accused of being violent or coercing these girls, only
that he probably knew what would happen to these non-English-speaking, low-caste
girls who were dependent on his father for housing and food.

The plea came unexpectedly, as both Vijay Lakireddy and his brother, Prasad
Lakireddy, had proclaimed their innocence for more than two years and vowed to
fight the charges in court.

Prasad Lakireddy -- the last family member facing charges -- sat in the back of
the courtroom with his attorneys Wednesday. He is scheduled for a January trial.

The two other family members who made deals with the government are the
brothers' uncle and aunt, Jayaprakash and Annapurna Lakireddy, who were
sentenced, respectively, to a year in a halfway house and six months of home
detention for their roles in signing false visas.

As part of the deals, the Alameda County District Attorney's Office also agreed
not to prosecute the family for rape and murder. One victim died of carbon
monoxide poisoning in November 1999 in a Reddy-owned apartment, touching off the
entire investigation, and all four male relatives were charged with traveling
with minors for the purposes of having sex.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Corrigan refused to say why he recommended a
two-year prison sentence instead of the maximum five years for conspiracy to
commit visa fraud. And he refused to say why he dismissed 21 counts of illegal
sex, witness tampering and other charges against Vijay Lakireddy.

In the 21-count indictment filed April 9, 2001, Vijay Lakireddy is accused of
having sex with seven victims against their will, among other offenses.

But the prosecution's case was damaged last year after revelations that a
Telugu-speaking interpreter convinced some of the victims to lie or embellish
their stories.

Family members are still facing a civil lawsuit filed by Michael Rubin, who is
representing the victims.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 3, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Immigrant plans show of patriotism;
CHINESE-AMERICAN GROUP TO DISPLAY THOUSANDS OF U.S. FLAGS IN OAKLAND'S CHINATOWN
FOR FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATION

BYLINE: Putsata Reang Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 455 words


The message Richard Mak intends to send when he adorns Oakland Chinatown with
3,500 American flags Thursday morning is simple but urgent: He may be Asian and
his speech etched with an indelible accent from his native Hong Kong, but he is
loyal to the flag all the same.

"We want to show that Asian-Americans love this country. We belong to this
nation," Mak said. "We are not foreigners. We're Americans."

Mak and a band of 200 volunteers are preparing to hang the flags on everything
from poles to parking meters, from shop windows to condominium balconies in an
unprecedented show of patriotism in Oakland's 11-block Chinatown.

The group plans to hit the streets with its flags at 6 a.m., before local
elected officials and community members show up for a 10 a.m. Chinatown Fourth
of July ceremony at Pacific Renaissance Plaza on Ninth Street between Franklin
and Webster streets. The event is sponsored by the Oakland Consolidated Chinese
Association, a non-profit organization of 13 Chinatown businesses and
organizations that promotes Chinese culture and helps immigrants and youths.

Last year, the group raised flags in the plaza and held a small celebration with
speeches and music. However, this year, Mak wanted to send an even louder
message of love for the Stars and Stripes in an effort to dull the barbed
anti-immigrant sentiment that followed Sept. 11, and to remind people that being
American is not about skin color.

Mak said he remembers when he first felt the sting of prejudice when he served
from 1971 to 1974 as a U.S. Air Force sergeant during the Vietnam War.

"Even when I was wearing the U.S. uniform, some people still called me
'Chinaman,' " said Mak, who started Harvest Fish Market on Eighth Street more
than 25 years ago. "It kind of hurt."

Still, his loyalty to America never wavered.

"I believe this American flag will defend everyone," Mak said.

In a small office across from the plaza, Mak and longtime friend Edward Yu set
up a strategic base where they spent all day Tuesday preparing 11 bags of flags
and pinpointing places on maps of downtown Oakland where they plan to dispatch
volunteers to distribute the free flags. Days earlier, volunteers walked through
each of the blocks counting the 400 parking meters within Chinatown to hang
flags on.

Yu, who has been a U.S. postal worker for the past 25 years, said he hopes the
gesture will help engender American and ethnic pride in the younger generation.

"A lot of kids grow up here and don't speak anything but English, but mainstream
will look at us like outsiders," Yu said. "I want the kids to be proud, but
don't forget where you came from."

Contact Putsata Reang at preang@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7312.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 3, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

INS launches Web site to track students with visas

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has launched the Internet Web site
that the nation's universities will soon use to register foreign students.

The move is the first step in the government's plan to track the movements of
all those with temporary visas, according to INS officials.

Schools that have received INS permission to accept foreign students for three
years can begin using the Web site system immediately, the agency announced
Tuesday.

Other schools will have to go through an extended review period to gain approval
to use the system, called "SEVIS." The system will become mandatory Jan. 30,
2003.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 4, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Reputed stepson of Saddam held on visa charge in Florida;
IN TOWN FOR FLIGHT SCHOOL, HE DENIES FAMILY TIES TO IRAQI LEADER

BYLINE: Manny Garcia Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Federal agents in Miami on Wednesday afternoon arrested a man believed to be the
stepson of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, saying he flew into town to take
flight training without a student visa.

Agents picked up Mohammed Nour Al-Bin Saffi, an employee of Air New Zealand, at
the Comfort Inn off Northwest 36th Street, across from Miami International
Airport.

"We had information that Mr. Saffi was coming here for flight training," said
Jim Goldman, Immigration & Naturalization Service assistant director for
investigations. "He was arrested without incident on an immigration-violation
charge."

Saffi, 36, is charged with entering the United States without a student visa,
Goldman said. Although the United States does not require citizens of New
Zealand -- which Saffi is -- to obtain visas to travel to America, they are
required to obtain visas to study or work.

Goldman said there is no evidence that Saffi is connected to a terrorism group.
Federal agents and published reports say he is Saddam's stepson, but Saffi
denied any family tie to the Iraqi leader and denied it to agents Wednesday.

Wednesday night, INS and FBI agents with the South Florida Joint Terrorism Task
Force drove Saffi to the Krome detention facility, where he was being
interviewed. Saffi will remain there pending a deportation hearing.

According to FBI Special Agent Judy Orihuela, Saffi flew Wednesday from New
Zealand to Los Angeles. He arrived in Miami on Wednesday afternoon and checked
into the Comfort Inn. Agents picked him up about three hours later.

Saffi was in Miami to take a four-day mandatory refresher course at Aero Service
flight school, Goldman said. Officials at the school could not be reached
Wednesday night.

Investigators said they became suspicious when Saffi decided to attend flight
training during the Fourth of July weekend, a time when few people are working.

Another question investigators have: Why did Saffi fly from New Zealand to Miami
when he could have trained somewhere closer to home?

"There are a couple of pieces we need to fill in," Goldman said. South Florida
federal agents have been sensitive since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks after
they learned that 14 of the 19 hijackers had trained in the area.

Saffi came under intense scrutiny during post-Sept. 11 security sweeps in New
Zealand, the New Zealand Press Association reported in December.

Saffi was working as an engineer at Air New Zealand in the maintenance division,
a secure area. He had been living in Auckland with his family for several years.

Saffi denied any link to Saddam, but New Zealand authorities identified a woman
they believe is Saffi's mother, Samira Shahbandar, who was reported to have been
married to Saddam after a relationship that began in the 1980s.

Saffi dismissed reports of his mother's marriage to Saddam as a rumor.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 4, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Reputed stepson of Saddam arrested on visa charge

BYLINE: Manny Garcia Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


Federal agents in Miami on Wednesday afternoon arrested a man believed to be the
stepson of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, saying he flew into town to take
flight training without a student visa.

Agents picked up Mohammed Nour Al-Bin Saffi, an employee of Air New Zealand, at
the Comfort Inn off Northwest 36th Street, across from Miami International
Airport.

"We had information that Mr. Saffi was coming here for flight training," said
Jim Goldman, Immigration and Naturalization Service assistant director for
investigations. "He was arrested without incident on an immigration-violation
charge."

Saffi, 36, is charged with entering the United States without a student visa,
Goldman said. Although the United States does not require citizens of New
Zealand -- which Saffi is -- to obtain visas to travel to America, they are
required to obtain visas to study or work.

Goldman said there is no evidence that Saffi is connected to a terrorism group.
Federal agents and published reports say he is Saddam's stepson, but Saffi
denied any family tie to the Iraqi leader and denied it to agents Wednesday.

Wednesday night, INS and FBI agents with the South Florida Joint Terrorism Task
Force drove Saffi to the Krome detention facility, where he was being
interviewed. Saffi will remain there pending a deportation hearing.

According to FBI Special Agent Judy Orihuela, Saffi flew Wednesday from New
Zealand to Los Angeles. He arrived in Miami on Wednesday afternoon and checked
into the Comfort Inn. Agents picked him up about three hours later.

Saffi was in Miami to take a four-day mandatory refresher course at Aero Service
flight school, Goldman said. Officials at the school could not be reached
Wednesday night.

Investigators said they became suspicious when Saffi decided to attend flight
training during the Fourth of July weekend, a time when few people are working.

Another question investigators have: Why did Saffi fly from New Zealand to Miami
when he could have trained somewhere closer to home?

"There are a couple of pieces we need to fill in," Goldman said. South Florida
federal agents have been sensitive since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks after
they learned that 14 of the 19 hijackers had trained in the area.

Saffi came under intense scrutiny during post-Sept. 11 security sweeps in New
Zealand, the New Zealand Press Association reported in December.

Saffi was working as an engineer at Air New Zealand in the maintenance division,
a secure area. He had been living in Auckland with his family for several years.

Saffi denied any link to Saddam, but New Zealand authorities identified a woman
they believe is Saffi's mother, Samira Shahbandar, who was reported to have been
married to Saddam after a relationship that began in the 1980s.

Saffi dismissed reports of his mother's marriage to Saddam as a rumor.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 6, 2002 Saturday A1 EDITION

Anti-communist protesters plan rally against Vietnamese singers

BYLINE: Cecilia Kang Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 171 words


Anti-communist protesters plan to stage a rally Sunday against a troupe of
visiting Vietnamese pop entertainers performing in front of a sold-out crowd at
the Santa Clara Convention Center.

Organizers of the protest expect more than 1,000 Vietnamese refugees and
activists to demonstrate against the singers, who are accused of spreading
communist propaganda in the United States.

But organizers of the show say the singers -- among the most popular in Vietnam
-- won't deliver any political messages and will sing ballads and spunky pop
songs.

A Vietnamese opera show is set for 2 p.m., and the "Summer Concert" will be held
at 7:30 p.m. with singers Thanh Lam, Quang Linh, Cam Ly, Quang Vinh and Yvonne.

Protest organizers contend the singers are here on tourist visas and are
violating immigration laws by raising money during a U.S. tour that includes
Texas and Virginia. But organizers say the troupe has followed all immigration
policies.

Contact Cecilia Kang at ckang@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5066.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      July 10, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Visits to INS office leave some frustrated, upset

BYLINE: Pankaj Paul Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 695 words


By now, most people have heard stories about the trials and tribulations of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Many will tell you that they would gladly exchange their experience with the INS
with a visit to the dentist. The rules are confusing, the lines are long, and
there are never enough people to help answer your questions. And sometimes, you
leave the INS office more confused than when you walked in.

Here's one immigrant's frustrating experience:

After a four-year wait, Nicole Tao and her husband were relieved when the INS
approved their green card petitions in December 2000. A month later, the pair
visited the San Jose INS office to get their passports stamped as temporary
documentation of their legal residency.

On that cold January morning, they left their 2-month-old son and 2-year-old
daughter with a nanny and arrived at the office at 5 a.m. They stood in a line
with dozens of others for hours until they made it inside.

The waiting didn't stop there. They sat for another two hours before they
finally got their temporary stamp. The INS officer said they could expect to
receive their green cards in about six months.

Tao's husband received his green card in the mail six months later, but Tao's
failed to arrive.

Three months passed without any sign of her green card. In September 2001, Tao
filed an inquiry, form (G-731C), with the INS to find out the status of her
green card. Another three months went by without any response from the agency.

Worried, she decided to pay another visit to the San Jose office in January.
After waiting in a long line beginning at 7 a.m., Tao failed to make it inside.

Disappointed but determined, she returned a couple of days later. This time she
arrived at 3 a.m. About 35 people already stood in line. Some had camped
overnight. Others had children bundled in blankets to beat the cold. Tao saw
some familiar faces -- others who were unable to get in several days before.

She waited more than five hours before her number was called. She asked about
the status of her green card and sought advice about what she could do -- other
than wait. The INS officer, she said, responded: "Hopefully you'll get it really
soon."

Tao remembers leaving the office so frustrated, she cried on her way to work.

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery declined to comment on Tao's case. She said that
long lines outside the San Jose office used to be the norm. But the wait, she
added, has improved since the office began taking applications by mail last
August.

On very busy days, the INS will sometimes take applications from those standing
in line or ask people to make an appointment for another day. But you should not
be turned away, Rummery said. They allow up to 400 people in the office a day.

And all applications are handled individually, making it possible for paperwork
submitted simultaneously to be processed at different times.

I decided to pay a visit to the San Jose office.

At about 11:45 a.m. Tuesday, there were about 25 people waiting in the
"information only" line and about 10 people waiting in the "appointment only"
line. A sign on the door said that there would be no more numbers given out for
the day.

I spoke with a person who was at the front of the line. He told me he had been
waiting for about four hours. He didn't have a number, but he still wanted to
wait and see if he could get a question answered. The guards were letting in
about 10 people every 15 minutes.

One couple realized after waiting 45 minutes that they would have to leave and
come back another day because they couldn't get a number.

I made it inside the office, but no one could tell me how many numbers had been
given out for the day.

Another six months have passed with no green card, but Tao says she still has
hope. She anxiously opens her mailbox every day, expecting today would be the
day her green card arrives.

She shudders when she hears talk about splitting the INS. She fears that any
change would mean more rules, more confusion, more bureaucracy, more lost
papers.

And more waiting.

Contact Pankaj Paul at immigration@sjmercury.com or (408) 278-3492.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      July 17, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION
                              Correction Appended

More waiting to be citizens;
INTEREST HAS GROWN, BUT PROCESS IS SLOWER WITH TOUGHER SCREENING

BYLINE: Christopher Newton Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The number of people seeking U.S. citizenship has soared since the Sept. 11
attacks, but the government -- placing a greater effort on weeding out potential
terrorists -- is taking longer to approve applicants.

The new numbers, released by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, reflect
a changed America. In the days after the attacks, the government slowed the
screening process because of fears of further terrorism, officials said.

Also, larger numbers of immigrants are seeking the prize of citizenship -- both
to show their patriotism and avoid being caught in the federal dragnet for
terrorists that has detained thousands on immigration technicalities since Sept.
11, according to those who work with them.

"People are eager to apply for naturalization because of the problems they run
into, or they have a friend who had a problem with INS," said Ismat Bayumi, 37,
of Dallas, who works with people seeking citizenship through the Catholic
Charities.

INS officials said there were 519,523 new applications for citizenship between
Oct. 1, 2001, and May 31, 2002 -- 65 percent more than the 314,971 applications
received over the same period beginning in 2000.

During May alone, the Immigration and Naturalization Service received 48,378
applications -- 121 percent more than in the previous May when 21,870 applied.

But even with the increase, the number of people granted citizenship between
October 2001 and May 2002 dropped 10 percent from the comparable period a year
earlier, the officials said.

Justice Department officials cite both the increase in applications and a
post-Sept. 11 directive urging greater caution in the approval process.

Immigration researcher Irma Gonzales, who works at the University of Chicago,
said the influx of applications was prompted by controversy over the detention
of immigrants in connection with the terror investigation.

"It is not a good time to be an immigrant in the United States," Gonzales said.
"Immigrants are being detained and deported with a great deal of secrecy, and
people are looking for the certainty that comes with having citizenship."

Backlogs for naturalization applications once stretched as long as two years.
The INS began making headway during the Clinton administration, and President
Bush has pushed to reduce it to six months.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 2002 Wednesday

CORRECTION: * An article July 17, about mounting delays in granting citizenship
to immigrants, quoted Irma Gonzales, identified as an immigration researcher at
the University of Chicago. The AP could not locate that person.

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 19, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

House leaders reject INS move to agency

BYLINE: Nick Anderson Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Top House Republicans endorsed much of President Bush's government
reorganization plan Thursday, but they rejected his proposal to move the
troubled federal immigration service intact to a new domestic security agency.

Under legislation drafted by House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, the
responsibilities of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, now part of the
Justice Department, would be divided. Border security functions would move to a
new Department of Homeland Security, while immigration processing would remain
at Justice.

Armey's proposal for the INS rejects the advice of Attorney General John
Ashcroft and instead follows the recommendation of the House Judiciary
Committee. The Bush administration had sought to move the entire INS to the new
Cabinet department, arguing that border enforcement and immigration services
were closely intertwined.

The Armey bill is to be considered today by a special nine-member panel of
Republican and Democratic leaders. The panel, chaired by the majority leader,
will then forward legislation to the House floor for a debate and vote,
scheduled next week.

Though Armey's endorsement of dividing the INS functions between two Cabinet
departments is likely to carry great weight in the House, the proposal will meet
resistance in the Senate.

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and other senior lawmakers in that chamber want to
keep the immigration service intact as a distinct unit within Homeland Security.
The Senate is expected to consider its own security bill after the House acts.

Gordon Johndroe, a White House representative for homeland security, said: "We
are pleased that Congress continues to move quickly on enacting the president's
proposal."

On several other key questions, Armey largely followed Bush's blueprint.

Like the president, Armey seeks to move the Coast Guard, the Secret Service and
the Federal Emergency Management Agency into the proposed Department of Homeland
Security.

Armey included some surprising items in the measure.

There is no legislation on the table to create a national ID card, which civil
libertarians and political conservatives have long decried as intrusive and an
example of government overreach. However, Bush proposed this week in his
homeland security strategy that states be encouraged to develop uniform rules
for issuing driver's licenses as an anti-terrorism measure.

Armey flatly rejected that notion, saying, "Authority to design and issue these
cards shall remain with the states."

The bill also includes language that would prohibit programs such as the Justice
Department's Operation Tips. Supporters say the initiative is aimed at
encouraging people with certain jobs -- those that take them into neighborhoods,
along coasts and on public transit -- to watch for suspicious activity.
Wednesday, the Postal Service said its letter carriers would not participate in
the program.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 3, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

INS has huge backlog of unprocessed records

BYLINE: Christopher Newton Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 396 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than 2 million documents filed by foreigners, from change-of address-forms
to requests for benefits, have been piling up for years and only now are being
reviewed by the government, senior U.S. officials said Friday.

Immigrant advocates say that means some foreigners deported in secret after
Sept. 11 might have been in compliance with laws they were expelled for
breaking. INS officials say that has not occurred.

The government has not revealed previously the extent to which it has fallen
behind in processing such records. Congressional investigators began an inquiry
into the question after the terror attacks.

The documents have been collected by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from field offices across the nation and sent to a warehouse complex outside
Kansas City, Mo. They include 200,000 change-of-address notices, INS official
Bill Strassberger said.

Failure to file a change of address form is a deportable offense, and the
Justice Department recently said it would step up enforcement.

Another U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the 2 million
documents also include applications for benefits and that more than 300,000 were
applications for citizenship.

"The field offices weren't sure what to do with all of the documents they had
not been able to look through, and they were a bit overwhelmed by the
unprecedented growth" in immigration, Strassberger said.

"The reality is, we were a backwater agency 10 years ago. Throughout the 1990s,
immigration became a very political issue and has become even more sensitive
since Sept. 11," he said.

The INS expects to have processed most of the documents by December.

Immigration experts and civil rights groups said the situation is embarrassing
to the government and an affront to foreigners who have tried to play by the
rules.

"It exposes one of the INS's dirty secrets," said Lucas Guttentag, director of
the American Civil Liberties Union's immigration-rights project. "The agency's
own record-keeping and information systems are completely inadequate, yet it so
often turns around and punishes law-abiding immigrants when the agency's own
shoddy record-keeping is at fault."

Said immigration attorney William Bernstein: "It's outrageous. It at least
raises the possibility that there could be innocent people who were deported on
bogus charges."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 6, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Crackdown costs immigrants jobs;
SOCIAL SECURITY ACTION CAUSES MANY TO QUIT

BYLINE: Mary Beth Sheridan Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Thousands of immigrants have been forced to leave their jobs in the past few
months, the result of a little-publicized operation by the U.S. government to
clean up Social Security records, immigration experts said.

Since early this year, the Social Security Administration has sent letters to
more than 800,000 businesses -- about one in eight U.S. employers -- asking them
to clear up cases in which their workers' names or Social Security numbers do
not match the agency's files. The letters cover about 7 million employees.

Agency officials said they are simply trying to tackle a bookkeeping problem and
the action is not related to the new get-tough approach on immigration stemming
from the Sept. 11 attacks. But the result could be the most dramatic blow in
years to undocumented workers on company payrolls.

"The impact is enormous," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza,
which represents Latinos. "We're hearing about it from all over the country."

Social Security officials note that there may be innocent reasons for some of
the discrepancies, like the misspelling of a worker's name, which can easily be
corrected.

But the crackdown has highlighted an open secret: A huge number of illegal
immigrants work "on the books," providing stolen or made-up Social Security
numbers to employers and having U.S. taxes deducted from their paychecks. Now,
with those employers being confronted by Social Security, many in turn are
confronting their workers, insisting they clear up the problem.

Workers who can't do so are often being fired or are quietly leaving. Josh
Bernstein of the Washington-based National Immigration Law Center, which is
attempting to track the impact of the letters, said as many as 100,000 may have
lost their jobs. He worries that legal as well as illegal immigrants have been
affected.

"It's devastating," said Laura Reiff, an immigration lawyer in Tysons Corner,
Va. One of her clients, a New York bakery, recently lost 200 employees, nearly
half its staff, after getting a letter about their Social Security numbers.
"You've got people fleeing," Reiff said. "You've got people who have to be
terminated."

The Social Security Administration has emphasized that its crackdown is not
aimed at immigrants. In fact, the agency refuses to share its information with
the Immigration and Naturalization Service because of privacy considerations.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 9, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Career center for screeners

BYLINE: Rodney Foo Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


San Jose officials responded Thursday to the looming layoffs of hundreds of
local airport screeners by opening a career center at the airport to help them
find new jobs.

More than 360 passenger screeners working at Mineta San Jose International
Airport will be replaced in November when the federal government assumes control
of security at 429 airports nationwide.

Many of the screeners are immigrants from the Philippines and are ineligible for
the new jobs under the fledging Transportation Security Administration. By law,
the screener positions can only be filled by citizens -- a requisite that has
come under fire from civil rights and labor groups.

To help the screeners adapt to new jobs, a partnership between the city and
other groups has created the center in a small building north of Terminal C.
Officials said Thursday it was essential to place the center at the airport to
make it easy for workers to visit it before or after their shifts.

The center will provide a range of services from helping immigrant workers file
for citizenship -- a federal requirement for hiring -- to assisting in filing
for unemployment benefits.

The effort is a cooperation among the city, Silicon Valley Workforce, a program
that helps laid-off workers with job training, and the Philip Vera Cruz Justice
Project, a group dedicated to protect the rights of Filipino immigrants.

Job training classes and seminars on resume writing and interviewing skills are
scheduled. Computers will be available for workers to fill out online
applications for the new federal security screening positions under the
Transportation Security Administration and for other jobs.

Sebastian Warren, a transportation agency spokesman, said all current airport
screeners who meet minimum requirements should apply for the federal airport
posts.

"They have the necessary skills to hit the ground running," Warren said.

It is estimated that 700 non-citizens work as screeners at the Bay Area's three
major airports. Labor and civil rights groups have protested the citizenship
requirement, saying the immigrant workers are being unfairly blamed for the
security practices that led to the Sept. 11 attacks.

"I don't think any other job on the airport requires citizenship. . . . It
really doesn't make much sense to single out" the screeners and baggage
handlers, said Councilman Chuck Reed, who helped to get the jobs center off the
ground.

Of the 365 passenger screeners at San Jose airport, 102 are not citizens,
according to the city Office of Economic Development.

Of the 102, 56 have applied for citizenship, an indication that they are
considering applying for their old jobs with the new agency.

A job center survey will be included in the screeners' paychecks next week, and
the answers will be used to refine and shape its services, said Terry Valens of
the justice project.

Screeners hoping to land jobs with the new federal agency will find there are
different expectations, such as an emphasis on their physical ability to deal
with the work, enunciation and facility with English and their problem-solving
skills, Valens said.

The San Jose airport program bears a few similarities to another at San
Francisco International Airport, which expanded its job listing office in
December to include workshops on naturalization for its screeners.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        August 9, 2002 Friday A1 EDITION

Preparing for layoffs;
S.J. OPENS CAREER CENTER TO HELP SCREENERS WITH CITIZENSHIP, JOB APPLICATIONS
U.S. takeover of airport security

BYLINE: Rodney Foo Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words


San Jose officials responded Thursday to the looming layoffs of hundreds of
local airport screeners by opening a career center at the airport to help them
find new jobs.

More than 360 passenger screeners working at Mineta San Jose International
Airport will be replaced in November when the federal government assumes control
of security at 429 airports nationwide.

Many of the screeners are immigrants from the Philippines and are ineligible for
the new jobs under the fledging Transportation Security Administration. By law,
the screener positions can only be filled by citizens -- a requisite that has
come under fire from civil rights and labor groups.

To help the screeners adapt to new jobs, a partnership between the city and
other groups has created the center in a small building north of Terminal C.
Officials said Thursday it was essential to place the center at the airport to
make it easy for workers to visit it before or after their shifts.

The center will provide a range of services from helping immigrant workers file
for citizenship -- a federal requirement for hiring -- to assisting in filing
for unemployment benefits.

The effort is a cooperation among the city, Silicon Valley Workforce, a program
that helps laid-off workers with job training, and the Philip Vera Cruz Justice
Project, a group dedicated to protect the rights of Filipino immigrants.

Job training classes and seminars on resume writing and interviewing skills are
scheduled. Computers will be available for workers to fill out online
applications for the new federal security screening positions under the
Transportation Security Administration and for other jobs.

Sebastian Warren, a transportation agency spokesman, said all current airport
screeners who meet minimum requirements should apply for the federal airport
posts.

"They have the necessary skills to hit the ground running," Warren said.

Passage of the Aviation and Transportation Act last year mandated that all
airport screeners be U.S. citizens when the new agency assumes control of
security at 429 airports on Nov. 19.

It is estimated that 700 non-citizens work as screeners at the Bay Area's three
major airports. Labor and civil rights groups have protested the citizenship
requirement, saying the immigrant workers are being unfairly blamed for the
security practices that led to the Sept. 11 attacks.

"I don't think any other job on the airport requires citizenship. . . . It
really doesn't make much sense to single out" the screeners and baggage
handlers, said Councilman Chuck Reed, who helped to get the jobs center off the
ground.

Of the 365 passenger screeners at San Jose airport, 102 are not citizens,
according to the city Office of Economic Development.

Of the 102, 56 have applied for citizenship, an indication that they are
considering applying for their old jobs with the new agency.

A job center survey will be included in the screeners' paychecks next week, and
the answers will be used to refine and shape its services, said Terry Valens of
the justice project.

Screeners hoping to land jobs with the new federal agency will find there are
different expectations, such as an emphasis on their physical ability to deal
with the work, enunciation and facility with English and their problem-solving
skills, Valens said.

The San Jose airport program bears a few similarities to another at San
Francisco International Airport, which expanded its job listing office in
December to include workshops on naturalization for its screeners.

Mercury News Staff Writer Aaron Davis contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 13, 2002 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Humiliation greets visitor at airport

BYLINE: Truong Phuoc Khanh Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words


Every summer for the past 25 years, New Zealand native Maggie Anderson and her
American husband have visited their family in Portola Valley.

But never before had her visit begun in handcuffs and humiliation.

Upon landing at Los Angeles International Airport at 11 a.m on July 24, Anderson
-- a former flight attendant who had flown in and out of U.S. airports hundreds
of times -- was questioned and arrested by federal immigration agents.

She was separated from her husband and escorted to a room where a female agent
wearing rubber gloves searched underneath her bra and underwear. Nothing was
found.

Anderson, 51, was held for 12 hours at the airport before she was taken away in
handcuffs to a detention center where she remained for an additional 21 hours
until the next flight back to New Zealand.

The charge? In 1998 -- three U.S. visits ago -- she overstayed her visa by eight
days.

"It was, to me, emotional rape," Anderson said, sometimes through tears while
recalling the events from two weeks past.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major international airports. No travel
violation, INS officials say, is too minor after Sept. 11.

"We have been the subject of very harsh criticism since 9-11," said Virginia
Kice, spokeswoman for the INS Western region. "All our employees understand we
cannot afford to make any mistakes now, and everybody is very, very vigilant.
The stakes in this climate are very high."

For the first half of this year, the INS has denied 7,422 individuals admission
into the country by air. That compares with 9,130 people denied entry over the
same period in 2000. But as a percentage of all travelers who are entering, or
returning to, the U.S. from another country, the percentage of denied admissions
has remained at .02 percent.

"Post 9-11, we are being exceedingly careful about dotting all the i's and
crossing all the t's," Kice said, "because we recognize the potential tragedy if
we make mistakes."

The Andersons, however, say that the crackdown on terrorism is leaving scars on
the safe, friendly face America proudly shows its foreign guests.

"Is this the way it's going to be? Are we going to be a computer file and when a
red light goes up next to your name, you're guilty and you're just hauled out of
there?" asked Anderson's husband, Doug, who grew up in Portola Valley and whose
father, Robert, was once the town's mayor. "You feel powerless. You don't get
Mirandized. You don't get a lawyer."

The Andersons are farmers in New Zealand. She has run a 100-mile race through
the Sierra Nevada. The 35 hours in INS custody, from her 11 a.m. arrival to her
10 p.m. flight out the next day, nearly broke her.

"I'm not weak; I'm not easily intimidated; I've been around the world," Anderson
said. "But I am frightened out of my wits because I understand these people have
power."

One week after her return to New Zealand, Anderson obtained a visitor visa to
enter the United States, this time without incident.

Though she understands the INS does not run a hotel for its detainees, her
treatment by federal agents, she said, left her dignity tattered.

They measured her and weighed her. They opened her toothpaste and makeup tubes.
They read the ancient Valentine's Day card from her husband that she always
keeps in her purse. They escorted her through public airport grounds with her
hands handcuffed behind her back. They told her to sit down, be quiet, and raise
her hand if she needed to use the bathroom.

But the worst part, she said, was the body search, or what the INS calls a
pat-down. Two female INS agents, wearing rubber gloves, took her inside a room.

Bra pulled up, pants down

Turn around and face the wall, she was told. Put your hands on the wall. Spread
your legs. When she didn't spread far enough, one agent kicked her foot causing
her to nearly fall to the floor, Anderson said.

One agent pulled Anderson's sports bra above her chest and ran her hands across
Anderson's breasts. The agent pulled down Anderson's pants and put one hand
inside her underwear, front and back.

"She doesn't have anything," Anderson recalled the inspecting agent telling the
other agent.

By then, Anderson was weeping, tears streaming down her face, and she had
nothing to wipe her nose. Agents had her purse and bags.

"I can't talk; I'm too frightened to open my mouth," Anderson said. "I can't
believe what is happening is happening."

The Mercury News checked Anderson's account of her detention with the INS.
Except for the foot-kick, everything was by the book, the INS said.

"Nothing you have shared with us appears to deviate from standard operation
procedure," Kice said. "This woman was searched. We did a pat-down, went under
her clothes to determine she didn't conceal something."

All individuals in INS custody who need to be transported to another place are
patted down, Kice said.

"We want to ensure they're not carrying any substance on their person," Kice
said, "whether it be weapons or chemicals."

Report couldn't be read

Following her interview with the INS investigator the day after she landed, she
was told to sign a report, something the investigator had prepared. She didn't
have her reading glasses, which were in her bag, so she couldn't read.

But Anderson signed anyway.

"I don't know what I signed," she said. "You are so petrified."

Anderson remained in the INS detention room for 21 hours, with the mounted
television set on the whole time featuring Jerry Springer, Sally Jessy Raphael
and wrestling.

She would go to the bathroom to weep hysterically and splash cold water over her
face.

"You have to get through this," she told herself.

Around noon, a little past her 24-hour mark in INS custody, a guard slipped
Anderson a piece of paper. She would leave that night on the 10:15 flight back
to New Zealand.

To the INS, cases like Anderson's are clear-cut and will be recorded as one more
case of visa violation.

"This scenario plays out dozens of times a day at an airport the size of LAX,"
Kice said. For Anderson, that was disturbing information.

"If you're going to bully citizens of your allies," she said, "you're not going
to have allies and you're going to fight the war on terrorism on your own."

Contact Truong Phuoc Khanh at tkhanh@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7505.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 13, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

INS greets New Zealand woman with handcuffs and humiliation;
HARSH TREATMENT WAS BY THE BOOK, OFFICIAL SAYS

BYLINE: Truong Phuoc Khanh Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 809 words


Every summer for the past 25 years, New Zealand native Maggie Anderson and her
American husband have visited their family in Portola Valley.

But never before had her visit begun in handcuffs and humiliation.

Upon landing at Los Angeles International Airport at 11 a.m on July 24, Anderson
-- a former flight attendant who had flown in and out of U.S. airports hundreds
of times -- was questioned and arrested by federal immigration agents.

She was separated from her husband and escorted to a room where a female agent
wearing rubber gloves searched underneath her bra and underwear. Nothing was
found.

Anderson, 51, was held for 12 hours at the airport before she was taken away in
handcuffs to a detention center where she remained for an additional 21 hours
until the next flight back to New Zealand.

The charge? In 1998 -- three U.S. visits ago -- she overstayed her visa by eight
days.

"It was, to me, emotional rape," Anderson said, sometimes through tears while
recalling the events from two weeks past.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major international airports. No travel
violation, INS officials say, is too minor after Sept. 11.

"We have been the subject of very harsh criticism since 9-11," said Virginia
Kice, spokeswoman for the INS Western region. "All our employees understand we
cannot afford to make any mistakes now, and everybody is very, very vigilant.
The stakes in this climate are very high."

For the first half of this year, the INS has denied 7,422 individuals admission
into the country by air. That compares with 9,130 people denied entry over the
same period in 2000. But as a percentage of all travelers who are entering, or
returning to, the U.S. from another country, the percentage of denied admissions
has remained at .02 percent.

"Post 9-11, we are being exceedingly careful about dotting all the i's and
crossing all the t's," Kice said, "because we recognize the potential tragedy if
we make mistakes."

The Andersons, however, say that the crackdown on terrorism is leaving scars on
the safe, friendly face America proudly shows its foreign guests.

"Is this the way it's going to be? Are we going to be a computer file and when a
red light goes up next to your name, you're guilty and you're just hauled out of
there?" asked Anderson's husband, Doug, who grew up in Portola Valley and whose
father, Robert, was once the town's mayor. "You feel powerless. You don't get
Mirandized. You don't get a lawyer."

The Andersons are farmers in New Zealand. She has run a 100-mile race through
the Sierra Nevada. The 35 hours in INS custody, from her 11 a.m. arrival to her
10 p.m. flight out the next day, nearly broke her.

"I'm not weak; I'm not easily intimidated; I've been around the world," Anderson
said. "But I am frightened out of my wits because I understand these people have
power."

One week after her return to New Zealand, Anderson obtained a visitor visa to
enter the United States, this time without incident.

Though she understands the INS does not run a hotel for its detainees, her
treatment by federal agents, she said, left her dignity tattered.

They measured her and weighed her. They opened her toothpaste and makeup tubes.
They read the ancient Valentine's Day card from her husband that she always
keeps in her purse. They escorted her through public airport grounds with her
hands handcuffed behind her back. They told her to sit down, be quiet, and raise
her hand if she needed to use the bathroom.

But the worst part, she said, was the body search, or what the INS calls a
pat-down. Two female INS agents, wearing rubber gloves, took her inside a room.

Turn around and face the wall, she was told. Put your hands on the wall. Spread
your legs. When she didn't spread far enough, one agent kicked her foot causing
her to nearly fall to the floor, Anderson said.

One agent pulled Anderson's sports bra above her chest and ran her hands across
Anderson's breasts. The agent pulled down Anderson's pants and put one hand
inside her underwear, front and back.

"She doesn't have anything," Anderson recalled the inspecting agent telling the
other agent.

The Mercury News checked Anderson's account of her detention with the INS.
Except for the foot-kick, everything was by the book, the INS said.

All individuals in INS custody who need to be transported to another place are
patted down, Kice said.

"We want to ensure they're not carrying any substance on their person," Kice
said, "whether it be weapons or chemicals."

Around noon, a little past her 24-hour mark in INS custody, a guard slipped
Anderson a piece of paper. She would leave that night on the 10:15 flight back
to New Zealand.

Contact Truong Phuoc Khanh at tkhanh@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7505.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 13, 2002 Tuesday A1 EDITION

Visitor claims humiliation by INS;
OFFICIAL SAYS NO VIOLATION TOO MINOR AFTER SEPT. 11

BYLINE: Truong Phuoc Khanh Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words


Every summer for the past 25 years, New Zealand native Maggie Anderson and her
American husband have visited their family in Portola Valley.

But never before had her visit begun in handcuffs and humiliation.

Upon landing at Los Angeles International Airport at 11 a.m on July 24, Anderson
-- a former flight attendant who had flown in and out of U.S. airports hundreds
of times -- was questioned and arrested by federal immigration agents.

She was separated from her husband and escorted to a room where a female agent
wearing rubber gloves searched underneath her bra and underwear. Nothing was
found.

Anderson, 51, was held for 12 hours at the airport before she was taken away in
handcuffs to a detention center where she remained for an additional 21 hours
until the next flight back to New Zealand.

The charge? In 1998 -- three U.S. visits ago -- she overstayed her visa by eight
days.

"It was, to me, emotional rape," Anderson said, sometimes through tears while
recalling the events from two weeks past.

Immigration and Naturalization Service officials say what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major international airports. No travel
violation, INS officials say, is too minor after Sept. 11.

"We have been the subject of very harsh criticism since 9-11," said Virginia
Kice, spokeswoman for the INS Western region. "All our employees understand we
cannot afford to make any mistakes now, and everybody is very, very vigilant.
The stakes in this climate are very high."

For the first half of this year, the INS has denied 7,422 individuals admission
into the country by air. That compares with 9,130 people denied entry over the
same period in 2000. But as a percentage of all travelers who are entering, or
returning to, the U.S. from another country, the percentage of denied admissions
has remained at .02 percent.

"Post 9-11, we are being exceedingly careful about dotting all the i's and
crossing all the t's," Kice said, "because we recognize the potential tragedy if
we make mistakes."

The Andersons, however, say that the crackdown on terrorism is leaving scars on
the safe, friendly face America proudly shows its foreign guests.

"Is this the way it's going to be? Are we going to be a computer file and when a
red light goes up next to your name, you're guilty and you're just hauled out of
there?" asked Anderson's husband, Doug, who grew up in Portola Valley and whose
father, Robert, was once the town's mayor. "You feel powerless. You don't get
Mirandized. You don't get a lawyer."

The Andersons are farmers in New Zealand. She has run a 100-mile race through
the Sierra Nevada. The 35 hours in INS custody, from her 11 a.m. arrival to her
10 p.m. flight out the next day, nearly broke her.

"I'm not weak; I'm not easily intimidated; I've been around the world," Anderson
said. "But I am frightened out of my wits because I understand these people have
power."

One week after her return to New Zealand, Anderson obtained a visitor visa to
enter the United States, this time without incident.

Though she understands the INS does not run a hotel for its detainees, her
treatment by federal agents, she said, left her dignity tattered.

They measured her and weighed her. They opened her toothpaste and makeup tubes.
They read the ancient Valentine's Day card from her husband that she always
keeps in her purse. They escorted her through public airport grounds with her
hands handcuffed behind her back. They told her to sit down, be quiet, and raise
her hand if she needed to use the bathroom.

But the worst part, she said, was the body search, or what the INS calls a
pat-down. Two female INS agents, wearing rubber gloves, took her inside a room.

Turn around and face the wall, she was told. Put your hands on the wall. Spread
your legs. When she didn't spread far enough, one agent kicked her foot causing
her to nearly fall to the floor, Anderson said.

One agent pulled Anderson's sports bra above her chest and ran her hands across
Anderson's breasts. The agent pulled down Anderson's pants and put one hand
inside her underwear, front and back.

"She doesn't have anything," Anderson recalled the inspecting agent telling the
other agent.

By then, Anderson was weeping, tears streaming down her face, and she had
nothing to wipe her nose. Agents had her purse and bags.

"I can't talk; I'm too frightened to open my mouth," Anderson said. "I can't
believe what is happening is happening."

The Mercury News checked Anderson's account of her detention with the INS.
Except for the foot-kick, everything was by the book, the INS said.

"Nothing you have shared with us appears to deviate from standard operation
procedure," Kice said. "This woman was searched. We did a pat-down, went under
her clothes to determine she didn't conceal something."

All individuals in INS custody who need to be transported to another place are
patted down, Kice said.

"We want to ensure they're not carrying any substance on their person," Kice
said, "whether it be weapons or chemicals."

Around noon, a little past her 24-hour mark in INS custody, a guard slipped
Anderson a piece of paper. She would leave that night on the 10:15 flight back
to New Zealand.

To the INS, cases like Anderson's are quite clear-cut and will be recorded as
one more case of visa violation.

"This scenario plays out dozens of times a day at an airport the size of LAX,"
Kice said. For Anderson, that was disturbing information.

"If you're going to bully citizens of your allies," she said, "you're not going
to have allies and you're going to fight the war on terrorism on your own."

Contact Truong Phuoc Khanh at tkhanh@sjmercury.com or (650) 688-7505.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 13, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION
                              Correction Appended

Foreign-visitor screening to begin at borders Sept. 11

BYLINE: Christopher Newton Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 455 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Justice Department has chosen Sept. 11 as the starting date for a new
program that will require tens of thousands of foreign visitors to be
fingerprinted and photographed at the border, U.S. officials announced Monday.

The security program, developed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
will begin at several undisclosed ports of entry and will mostly affect those
from Muslim and Middle Eastern countries.

After a 20-day testing period, all remaining ports of entry will implement the
new system Oct. 1.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the program will correct some of the
problems that helped terrorists carry out the Sept. 11 attacks.

"The vulnerabilities of our immigration system became starkly clear on Sept.
11," Ashcroft said. "This system will expand substantially America's scrutiny of
those foreign visitors who may present an elevated national security risk. And
it will provide a vital line of defense in the war against terrorism."

Congress required the Justice Department to develop a stricter entry-exit system
in sweeping anti-terrorism legislation signed by President Bush late last year.

Under the new program, the fingerprints of many foreign visitors will be matched
against a database of known criminals and a database of known terrorists.

The government says the security system will target:

* All citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria.

* Non-immigrant foreigners who the State Department determines present an
elevated national security risk, based on criteria reflecting current
intelligence.

* Foreigners identified by INS inspectors at the port of entry, using similar
criteria.

Some immigration advocates say the program is treating visitors unfairly.

"This is a fancy way of racial profiling," said Carl Baron, an immigration
attorney and researcher at the University of Texas. "Just on the basis of where
a person is from, the government is going to subject them to these measures.
You're going to see fewer Middle Easterners willing to come to the United States
and I wonder whether that isn't the real agenda."

INS official Bill Strassberger said the criticism was unfounded.

"The real agenda is to improve security in the United States and improve the
knowledge of who is coming and what their business is here," Strassberger said.
"The terrorists were able to exploit what they perceived as weaknesses. We can
make sure that won't happen again."

During a pilot project using the same technology to identify wanted criminals
attempting to re-enter the United States, the INS has received an average of
about 70 fingerprint "hits" a week. The fingerprinting led to the arrest of more
than 2,000 wanted felons between January and July.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 23, 2002 Wednesday

CORRECTION: * An article Aug. 13, about the Justice Department's decision to
start fingerprinting foreign visitors, quoted Carl Baron, identified as an
immigration lawyer and University of Texas researcher. The AP could not locate
that person.

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 15, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Mideast immigrants a fast-growing group;
REPORT SAYS CALIFORNIA HAS HIGHEST NUMBERS OF WELL-EDUCATED, RELATIVELY AFFLUENT
NEWCOMERS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 603 words


Immigrants from the Middle East make up one of the fastest-growing immigrant
groups in the United States and could help shape the future of American foreign
policy toward the Mideast conflict, according to a national report released
Wednesday.

The number of immigrants from Jordan, Israel, Syria, Palestinian territories,
Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, North Africa and other countries in the
region has grown from 200,000 in 1970 to 1.5 million in 2000, according to the
report by the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS), a Washington, D.C., think
tank that supports tighter immigration enforcement.

The study, prompted by Sept. 11 and the subsequent interest in Middle Eastern
immigrants, estimates that the number of Middle Easterners will grow to 2.5
million by 2010.

California leads the nation, with almost 400,000 immigrants from the Middle
East. Nearly two-thirds live in the Los Angeles area, while about 94,000 live in
the Bay Area.

The report, based on census data, does not include about 570,000 people younger
than 18 who are U.S.-born children of Middle Eastern immigrants.

Education, income

According to the report, Middle Eastern immigrants are one of the most educated
immigrant groups in America. In 2000, about half had earned at least a
bachelor's degree, compared to 28 percent of U.S.-born residents. Middle Eastern
immigrants also had a slightly higher median income, $39,000 in 2000, compared
to $38,000 for U.S.-born residents.

More than half of the immigrants from the Middle East are citizens, compared to
the average 38 percent for all other immigrant groups combined.

"To me, it shows the Muslim community is very supportive and loves America,
contrary to how they have been portrayed recently," said Helal Omeira, executive
director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, a non-profit group in San
Jose that promotes awareness and understanding of Islam.

The report said 73 percent of Middle Eastern immigrants were Muslim, a dramatic
change from 1970, when Muslims were only 15 percent of immigrants.

Political role

Steven Camarota, director of research for CIS, said Middle Eastern immigrants
will probably seek to play a larger role in American politics as their numbers
grow and they attain more power.

"Muslims are dissatisfied with U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. They feel
it's one-sided, and as this group grows in size, that could lead to changes in
U.S. foreign policy," Camarota said.

But Camarota said the federal government is justified to fingerprint and monitor
Middle Eastern men as part of its counterterrorism measures.

"It's a time of war," he said. "It makes sense and you have got to do it. But
I'm troubled by the fact that we've not seen an infusion of resources" into
Immigration and Naturalization Service enforcement "to universalize
enforcement."

As a short-term solution, the targeting of Middle Eastern men "hints of racial
profiling," said Muhammed Chaudhry, spokesman for the Baitul Baseer Mosque in
Milpitas.

"Finger-pointing at one group is not a good solution," Chaudhry said.

For some American Jews, the CIS report indicates that the size of the U.S.
Muslim population is not 6 million to 7 million, as many Muslim leaders have
contended since Sept. 11.

"That number is used by Muslim organizations to give them political clout they
don't have," said Stephen Steinlight, a former director of the American Jewish
Committee.

Middle Eastern immigrants make up only a portion of the U.S. Muslim population.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 15, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Grandmother wins green card

BYLINE: Justin Pritchard Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 518 words


One family's effort to keep a 74-year-old grandmother from being deported to
China ended happily Wednesday for the woman, whose personal victory will benefit
hundreds of other immigrants.

It took an act of Congress for Zhenfu Ge to be able to stay in the United States
and help her American son-in-law care for her grandchildren. The need has been
acute since their mother, Ge's daughter, died last year.

On Wednesday, Ge emerged from an Immigration and Naturalization Service hearing
in San Francisco with her green card.

Ge's improbable story began in April 2001, when she was mere days from getting
the green card but her daughter -- and sponsor of her application for permanent
residency -- died of cancer.

Under the law at that time, Ge's chances of staying legally in the United States
died with her daughter. But Ge's case has changed that law.

After learning of her plight, Congress passed legislation that let Ge's American
son-in-law take over sponsorship of her green card. Before the law passed in
March, only a child, sibling, spouse or parent of an applicant could do that.

"In this democratic country, you can make things happen like this," Ge said
Wednesday through a translator. "Now I have the legal presence in this country
to fulfill the will of my daughter."

That means Ge will be able to live in Sausalito and raise her 4-year-old
granddaughter and adolescent grandson.

At times, that seemed impossible during the odyssey of the past 16 months, said
Ge's son-in-law, John Mark.

After an initial rush of coverage in the mainstream and Chinese-language media,
Mark, 51, petitioned elected leaders for help.

They obliged by introducing "private relief" legislation to let Ge stay. But few
such bills pass. During the current session of Congress, lawmakers have
introduced 89 of them and only one is law.

Ge's bill, sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Rep. Lynn Woolsey, both
California Democrats, appeared on its way to the president's desk when lawmakers
decided to address the issue with a broader stroke. The resulting law signed by
President Bush lets anyone with a pending green card application change family
sponsors if the original sponsor dies, as long as INS had approved the original
application.

The change -- long desired by immigrant advocates -- seemed unlikely in the
post-Sept. 11 climate of scrutinizing immigration policy. But the facts of Ge's
case were compelling.

"You have the paradigm of the sympathetic family: the little kid who's just
adorable, a death in the family," said Ivy Lee, a San Francisco lawyer who
helped Ge negotiate the INS bureaucracy.

Feinstein called Wednesday's outcome one of the "limited number of times when
you can see a legislative action have a human and very personal result."

Ge said she is grateful for the chance to stay, but even more proud that the law
will benefit potentially hundreds of other immigrants.

Early Wednesday morning, she went to the INS office in San Francisco and --
contrary to her experience in April 2001 -- whisked through the process with a
sympathetic hearing officer.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 15, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Chinese girl to seek asylum;
FATHER IN U.S. ILLEGALLY ALSO WILL APPLY; MOTHER IS IN HIDING IN CHINA

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: AMHERST, Mass. (AP)


A 12-year-old Chinese girl who disappeared after arriving in San Francisco with
a tour group and reappeared with relatives in Amherst will seek asylum in the
United States, her attorney said.

Yukun Jia arrived in Amherst on Aug. 1 and joined her father, who has been in
this country since 2000.

Their reunion was part of a family plan that went amiss because Yukun's mother
was unable to leave China as planned and is in hiding, attorney Shen-Shin Lu
said Tuesday.

Yukun's mother, Hong Jia, and her husband hoped to seek asylum together on the
grounds that Hong was forced to have two abortions under China's "one child"
population-control policy, Lu said.

Yukun and her father, Bing Jia, are expected to apply for asylum as early as
Friday, but that could be complicated by the fact that the father is in the
country illegally. The Immigration and Naturalization Service ordered him
deported last week after it learned he was in the country.

Lu said Bing Jia hopes to avoid deportation by seeking asylum.

An INS representative wouldn't comment Wednesday on the father's case. However,
Amy Otten, at the INS office in Burlington, Vt., noted that the girl's visitor's
visa is good for up to six months.

The Chinese Consulate in San Francisco told the Boston Globe that Chinese
officials recently learned that the father was in the United States. The Chinese
government last week asked the State Department to arrange a meeting with him.

Authorities initially feared that Yukun might have been kidnapped when she
disappeared from a Chinese tour group during a layover in San Francisco on a
trip to Space Camp in Huntsville, Ala.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 16, 2002 Friday MO1 EDITION

Fox's canceled trip helps him at home;
MEXICAN LEADER HAS BEEN CALLED TOO PRO-U.S.

BYLINE: Traci Carl Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 417 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Under pressure from critics who say his close friendship with President Bush has
not paid off, President Vicente Fox's cancellation of his trip to the U.S.
leader's Texas ranch has cooled relations with Washington but enhanced his power
to get things done at home.

Fox has struggled with a hostile Congress that has blocked his proposals or
modified them beyond recognition and, in one case, prevented him from traveling
to the United States, arguing that he needed to focus more on Mexico.

Late Wednesday, hours after Texas ignored his pleas and put a Mexican-American
drug smuggler to death for killing a Dallas police officer, Fox canceled his
Aug. 26-28 trip to four Texas cities and to Bush's ranch in Crawford, where he
had planned to push the U.S. president for an immigration accord.

Some Mexican politicians have felt that Bush has increasingly abandoned this
country after the Sept. 11 attacks shifted the focus of U.S. foreign policy from
immigration reform to fighting terrorism. Some argue that Fox's cozy ties with
the U.S. president have accomplished little south of the border.

"It seems there is much giving, and we get nothing but smiles in return," said
Mexican lawmaker Eddie Varon, a member of the former ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party. "Things are going to be taken seriously now."

That sentiment is a far cry from the optimism on both sides of the border in
February 2001, when Fox and Bush -- both newly elected -- walked like old
friends around the pond at Fox's ranch and talked about ways to ease illegal
immigration.

Yet even then, some Mexicans complained that the meeting was overshadowed by
U.S. and British airstrikes against Iraq, which took place hours before Fox and
Bush emerged for a joint news conference in Fox's front yard.

Fox's decision Wednesday "is an unequivocal signal of rejection of the
execution," said his press officer, Rodolfo Elizondo. "It would be
inappropriate, in these lamentable circumstances, to go ahead with the visit to
Texas."

Mexico, which has no death penalty, had argued that Javier Suarez Medina was a
Mexican citizen who was denied his right to legal help from the Mexican
Consulate. Texas authorities said it wasn't clear whether Suarez Medina, who
spent the majority of his life in the United States, was born in Mexico.

White House press officer Jimmy Orr said Bush, a former Texas governor,
"respects President Fox and the two have an excellent professional relationship
and a strong friendship."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 17, 2002 Saturday PS1 EDITION

Immigrants make walking a social event

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 576 words


Auntie just got here from China. She doesn't know San Jose, doesn't drive,
doesn't speak the language. She babysits all day. In the unwalkable city, Auntie
should have gone stir-crazy by now.

Only she hasn't. In fact, Auntie has made more friends in San Jose in a few
weeks than I've made in 11 years.

"Than me, too," says her nephew-in-law, Greg Rheams, a lawyer who moved here
from St. Louis a few years ago with his wife, Ning Gan, who is an immigration
attorney.

Well, maybe we exaggerate a little. But the fact is that Shucui "Auntie" Li
literally has walked her way into a warm, social group in the cul-de-sac maze of
North San Jose.

My summer project -- San Jose on Foot -- has come to Townsend Park to explore
walking the immigrant way, the social way, the way Americans forgot.

"Auntie enjoys the company of several Chinese babysitters who meet in the park
after walking their babies," says Greg Rheams.

The neighborhoods up here are new and full of tiny cul-de-sacs crammed with big
houses or huge apartment and condo complexes. On a map the street names are
longer than the streets.

The Rheams invite me to dinner, which San Jose on Foot has discovered is the
universal immigrant prerequisite for a good evening walk. Auntie has prepared a
feast of dumplings, pork, bok choy and luffa greens with sausage. Ethan, the
Rheams' 9-month-old Amerasian son, is eating Cheerios.

The Rheams tell me they met in law school in St. Louis in 1995, lived in
Washington, D.C., for a while and then moved to San Jose in 1999 for work,
Mediterranean weather and Chinese-American culture.

After dinner, Auntie puts Ethan into the stroller and we head toward Townsend
Park. We're there in five minutes max! Walking in cul-de-sac-land is not
supposed to be this convenient.

Dozens of adults and children are walking, jogging, playing, sitting, conversing
or simply people-watching. Most of them are Chinese or Indian Asians, some in
their traditional dress. Auntie is wearing a bright red, Chinese jacket and has
braided her long, black hair for the occasion.

Townsend Park is relatively small for a city park, about the size and shape of a
football field, yet it fits this suburban neighborhood perfectly. The focus here
is on individuals and families, not organized sports. Walkers and joggers take
easily to a sidewalk and dirt path around the park. Meanwhile, parents sit on
well-shaded benches and tables set around a large and well-lighted playground.

In short, this suburban park delivers an old, urban park value: It brings the
neighborhood people together.

By now Auntie is carrying Ethan in her arms. She sees a Chinese mother holding
an infant boy and we are soon in the middle of a group of 11 Chinese men and
women passing the babies around. Auntie knows most of them.

"If it wasn't for this park, Auntie would have gone back to China by now," says
Ning Rheams.

The newcomers don't power-walk in Spandex shorts and torn T-shirts the way
Americans do.

"In China we have a saying," Ning says, "Walk a hundred steps every day after
supper and you will live to be 99 years old."

I believe Auntie and her friends will outlive most of us in the unwalkable city.
There simply aren't enough parks in San Jose like this one. As I say goodbye,
Auntie gathers up a little English: "I like this park!"

Do you have a favorite walk for San Jose on Foot? Contact Joe Rodriguez at
jrodriguez@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 17, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Immigrants make walking a social event

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 576 words


Auntie just got here from China. She doesn't know San Jose, doesn't drive,
doesn't speak the language. She babysits all day. In the unwalkable city, Auntie
should have gone stir-crazy by now.

Only she hasn't. In fact, Auntie has made more friends in San Jose in a few
weeks than I've made in 11 years.

"Than me, too," says her nephew-in-law, Greg Rheams, a lawyer who moved here
from St. Louis a few years ago with his wife, Ning Gan, who is an immigration
attorney.

Well, maybe we exaggerate a little. But the fact is that Shucui "Auntie" Li
literally has walked her way into a warm, social group in the cul-de-sac maze of
North San Jose.

My summer project -- San Jose on Foot -- has come to Townsend Park to explore
walking the immigrant way, the social way, the way Americans forgot.

"Auntie enjoys the company of several Chinese babysitters who meet in the park
after walking their babies," says Greg Rheams.

The neighborhoods up here are new and full of tiny cul-de-sacs crammed with big
houses or huge apartment and condo complexes. On a map the street names are
longer than the streets.

The Rheams invite me to dinner, which San Jose on Foot has discovered is the
universal immigrant prerequisite for a good evening walk. Auntie has prepared a
feast of dumplings, pork, bok choy and luffa greens with sausage. Ethan, the
Rheams' 9-month-old Amerasian son, is eating Cheerios.

The Rheams tell me they met in law school in St. Louis in 1995, lived in
Washington, D.C., for a while and then moved to San Jose in 1999 for work,
Mediterranean weather and Chinese-American culture.

After dinner, Auntie puts Ethan into the stroller and we head toward Townsend
Park. We're there in five minutes max! Walking in cul-de-sac-land is not
supposed to be this convenient.

Dozens of adults and children are walking, jogging, playing, sitting, conversing
or simply people-watching. Most of them are Chinese or Indian Asians, some in
their traditional dress. Auntie is wearing a bright red, Chinese jacket and has
braided her long, black hair for the occasion.

Townsend Park is relatively small for a city park, about the size and shape of a
football field, yet it fits this suburban neighborhood perfectly. The focus here
is on individuals and families, not organized sports. Walkers and joggers take
easily to a sidewalk and dirt path around the park. Meanwhile, parents sit on
well-shaded benches and tables set around a large and well-lighted playground.

In short, this suburban park delivers an old, urban park value: It brings the
neighborhood people together.

By now Auntie is carrying Ethan in her arms. She sees a Chinese mother holding
an infant boy and we are soon in the middle of a group of 11 Chinese men and
women passing the babies around. Auntie knows most of them.

"If it wasn't for this park, Auntie would have gone back to China by now," says
Ning Rheams.

The newcomers don't power-walk in Spandex shorts and torn T-shirts the way
Americans do.

"In China we have a saying," Ning says, "Walk a hundred steps every day after
supper and you will live to be 99 years old."

I believe Auntie and her friends will outlive most of us in the unwalkable city.
There simply aren't enough parks in San Jose like this one. As I say goodbye,
Auntie gathers up a little English: "I like this park!"

Do you have a favorite walk for San Jose on Foot? Contact Joe Rodriguez at
jrodriguez@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday PS1 EDITION

Stolen wallet could result in INS ceremony confusion

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words


Q I was shopping at Kmart on Aug. 6 and put my wallet in the shopping cart.
Somebody took it. I lost my Immigration and Naturalization card, my Social
Security card, driver's license, ATM, Visa card and my paycheck. I reported it
to the police. But on Wednesday, I have an appointment with the INS for the
swearing-in ceremony. I have nothing to prove who I am. What should I do? A.
Sally San Jose

A Go back to the police department and get a copy of the police report.
Normally, one would need to take this report to the swearing-in ceremony, says
Sharon Rummery, INS spokeswoman. By then you might have paperwork from applying
for a duplicate driver's license and a Social Security card and could bring
those with you.

But we've made arrangements for the INS to have your file at the resolution
table (a spot to handle potential problems at swearing-in ceremonies). Rummery
is working with you so you will have the correct material to avoid any problems
on Wednesday.

Sound off: garbage

It's been five weeks since the new garbage/recycle program began. I've noticed
that many people are unaware that one should leave 1 1/2 to 2 feet between the
carts so that the equipment has enough room to operate efficiently. If the
people were to put out the carts correctly, the driver wouldn't need to dismount
and separate the carts so that one can be picked up without knocking the other
one over.

Also, some homeowners pile their grass clippings so close to the cars that the
"pincher" collecting unit has a hard time picking it all up without leaving a
mess. This information was included in material in the garbage bill and with the
new carts, but I think these information packets might have been some of the
first things "recycled." C.S. San Jose

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/

mld/bayarea/news/columnists/

action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Stolen wallet could result in INS ceremony confusion

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 385 words


Q I was shopping at Kmart on Aug. 6 and put my wallet in the shopping cart.
Somebody took it. I lost my Immigration and Naturalization card, my Social
Security card, driver's license, ATM, Visa card and my paycheck. I reported it
to the police. But on Wednesday, I have an appointment with the INS for the
swearing-in ceremony. I have nothing to prove who I am. What should I do? A.
Sally San Jose

A Go back to the police department and get a copy of the police report.
Normally, one would need to take this report to the swearing-in ceremony, says
Sharon Rummery, INS spokeswoman. By then you might have paperwork from applying
for a duplicate driver's license and a Social Security card and could bring
those with you.

But we've made arrangements for the INS to have your file at the resolution
table (a spot to handle potential problems at swearing-in ceremonies). Rummery
is working with you so you will have the correct material to avoid any problems
on Wednesday.

Sound off: garbage

It's been five weeks since the new garbage/recycle program began. I've noticed
that many people are unaware that one should leave 1 1/2 to 2 feet between the
carts so that the equipment has enough room to operate efficiently. If the
people were to put out the carts correctly, the driver wouldn't need to dismount
and separate the carts so that one can be picked up without knocking the other
one over.

Also, some homeowners pile their grass clippings so close to the cars that the
"pincher" collecting unit has a hard time picking it all up without leaving a
mess. This information was included in material in the garbage bill and with the
new carts, but I think these information packets might have been some of the
first things "recycled." C.S. San Jose

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/

mld/bayarea/news/columnists/

action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday A1 EDITION

Wallet theft could cause INS confusion

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 312 words


Q I was shopping at Kmart on Aug. 6 and put my wallet in the shopping cart.
Somebody took it. I lost my Immigration and Naturalization Service card, my
Social Security card, driver's license, ATM, Visa card and my paycheck. I
reported it to the police. But on Wednesday, I have an appointment with the INS
for the swearing-in ceremony. I have nothing to prove who I am. What should I
do? A. Sally San Jose

A Go back to the police department and get a copy of the police report.
Normally, one would need to take this report to the swearing-in ceremony, says
Sharon Rummery, INS spokeswoman. By then you might have paperwork from applying
for a duplicate driver's license and a Social Security card and could bring
those with you.

But we've made arrangements for the INS to have your file at the resolution
table (a spot to handle potential problems at swearing-in ceremonies).

Sound off: garbage

It's been five weeks since the new garbage/recycle program began. I've noticed
that many people are unaware that one should leave 1 1/2 to 2 feet between the
carts so that the equipment has enough room to operate efficiently. If the
people were to put out the carts correctly, the driver wouldn't need to dismount
and separate the carts so that one can be picked up without knocking the other
one over. C.S. San Jose

Need help? Here is how to reach us:

* Mail: Action Line, San Jose Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose,
Calif. 95190

* E-mail: actionline@sjmercury.com

* On the Web: www.bayarea.com/

mld/bayarea/news/columnists/

action-line/

* Phone: (888) 688-6400. (This toll-free number also has answers to dozens of
commonly asked questions.)

* Fax: (408) 288-8060

Please include full name, address and phone number. Do not send original
documents. Action Line regrets that because of the volume of requests, we cannot
respond to all queries.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday MO1 EDITION

INS policy of get-tough is overkill

BYLINE: Peter Delevett Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words


Imagine you're pulled over for a minor moving violation. The cop discovers you
have a 4-year-old parking ticket. He hauls you out of your car, strip-searches
you, puts you in handcuffs and throws you in the slammer for 36 hours.

Ludicrous, you say? I'd agree. But that's akin to what happened last month to a
New Zealand woman who was trying to visit her in-laws in Portola Valley.

When Maggie Anderson and her husband, Doug, arrived at Los Angeles International
Airport on July 24, they were tired and jet-lagged after the 12-hour flight.
They were surprised when Immigration and Naturalization Service officials told
Maggie Anderson she had overstayed her visa by eight days -- back in 1998.

Though nobody had noticed the lapse on any of Anderson's three Bay Area visits
since, this time INS officials sent her home.

But first, they searched and confiscated her luggage. They took her into a room
where she was groped by female INS agents wearing rubber gloves, who pushed up
her bra, felt her chest and put a hand inside her underwear. Then she was led in
handcuffs through the airport and held for 36 hours -- the first 12 hours,
without anything to eat or drink.

"You're pretty much cowed into this situation where you have no rights," says
Doug Anderson, who wasn't allowed to be with his wife of 27 years during her
ordeal.

Here's the worst part: An INS spokeswoman says Maggie Anderson's treatment was
standard operating procedure post-Sept. 11.

Common sense needed

In fact, the INS told the Mercury News this week that what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major airports.

Doug Anderson says one of the people in the holding area with his wife was a
Buddhist monk. Strip-searching clergy -- now that should buff America's image
abroad.

Look, I'm all in favor of strong borders. I've never understood the rationale
for turning a blind eye to people who are in the United States illegally.

But we're talking about a 51-year-old homemaker. She wasn't hiding a kilo of
coke or a bag of box cutters.

How about using a little common sense -- or common courtesy?

The INS needs "to make judgment calls" for travelers who pose no threat, agrees
U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who sits on the House immigration
subcommittee.

INS officials admit the new get-tough policy comes in the wake of stinging
criticism of agency incompetence that, for instance, led to student visas being
granted to two Sept. 11 hijackers six months after they destroyed the World
Trade Center.

Saad Ahmad, an immigration attorney in San Jose, says the INS has started
enforcing laws that, before Sept. 11, were often allowed to slide.

He says he's recently had clients deported for minor offenses like holding a
part-time job. People on student visas aren't supposed to work.

He and other immigration experts say the agency's zero-tolerance approach is
overkill.

"This is definitely sending people the wrong impression," Ahmad says. "I think
these policies are going to antagonize people."

Cold welcome

Doug Anderson, for one, says his wife will think twice about coming back to
California any time soon.

"I know what the mood is in the public," says Doug Anderson, a Woodside High
grad. He understands people want to feel safe. But, he notes, "If you treat
everybody with equal disdain, the cure becomes worse than the disease."

Ironically, a week after Anderson's rough treatment by the INS, President Bush
was making plans for a new "Office of Global Communications" that reportedly
will try to improve America's international image.

Here's a place to start: Don't treat foreign visitors like dirt bags over minor
red tape.

Peter Delevett's column appears Sunday and Wednesday. If you've got a scoop,
e-mail pdelevett@sjmercury. com or call (408) 271-3638. To subscribe to his
e-mail dispatch, see www.peterdelevett.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday PS1 EDITION

INS policy of get-tough is overkill

BYLINE: Peter Delevett Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words


Imagine you're pulled over for a minor moving violation. The cop discovers
you've got a 4-year-old parking ticket. He hauls you out of your car,
strip-searches you, puts you in handcuffs and throws you in the slammer for 36
hours.

Ludicrous, you say? I'd agree. But that's akin to what happened last month to a
New Zealand woman who was trying to visit her in-laws in Portola Valley.

When Maggie Anderson and her husband, Doug, arrived at Los Angeles International
Airport on July 24, they were tired and jet-lagged after the 12-hour flight.
They were surprised when Immigration and Naturalization Service officials told
Maggie Anderson she had overstayed her visa by eight days -- back in 1998.

Though nobody had noticed the lapse on any of Anderson's three Bay Area visits
since, this time INS officials sent her home.

But first, they searched and confiscated her luggage. They took her into a room
where she was groped by female INS agents wearing rubber gloves, who pushed up
her bra, felt her chest and put a hand inside her underwear. Then she was led in
handcuffs through the airport and held for 36 hours -- the first 12 hours,
without anything to eat or drink.

"You're pretty much cowed into this situation where you have no rights," says
Doug Anderson, who wasn't allowed to be with his wife of 27 years during her
ordeal.

Here's the worst part: An INS spokeswoman says Maggie Anderson's treatment was
standard operating procedure post-Sept. 11.

Common sense needed

In fact, the INS told the Mercury News this week that what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major airports.

Doug Anderson says one of the people in the holding area with his wife was a
Buddhist monk. Strip-searching clergy -- now that should buff America's image
abroad.

Look, I'm all in favor of strong borders. I've never understood the rationale
for turning a blind eye to people who are in the United States illegally.

But we're talking about a 51-year-old homemaker. She wasn't hiding a kilo of
coke or a bag of box cutters.

How about using a little common sense -- or common courtesy?

The INS needs "to make judgment calls" for travelers who pose no threat, agrees
U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who sits on the House immigration
subcommittee.

INS officials admit the new get-tough policy comes in the wake of stinging
criticism of agency incompetence that, for instance, led to student visas being
granted to two Sept. 11 hijackers six months after they destroyed the World
Trade Center.

Saad Ahmad, an immigration attorney in San Jose, says the INS has started
enforcing laws that, before Sept. 11, were often allowed to slide.

He says he's recently had clients deported for minor offenses like holding a
part-time job. People on student visas aren't supposed to work.

He and other immigration experts say the agency's zero-tolerance approach is
overkill.

"This is definitely sending people the wrong impression," Ahmad says. "I think
these policies are going to antagonize people."

Cold welcome

Doug Anderson, for one, says his wife will think twice about coming back to
California any time soon.

"I know what the mood is in the public," says Doug Anderson, a Woodside High
grad. He understands people want to feel safe. But, he notes, "If you treat
everybody with equal disdain, the cure becomes worse than the disease."

Ironically, a week after Anderson's rough treatment by the INS, President Bush
was making plans for a new "Office of Global Communications" that reportedly
will try to improve America's international image.

Here's a place to start: Don't treat foreign visitors like dirt bags over minor
red tape.

Peter Delevett's column appears Sunday and Wednesday. If you've got a scoop,
e-mail pdelevett@sjmercury. com or call (408) 271-3638. To subscribe to his
e-mail dispatch, see www.peterdelevett.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 18, 2002 Sunday A1 EDITION

INS policy of get-tough is overkill

BYLINE: Peter Delevett Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 646 words


Imagine you're pulled over for a minor moving violation. The cop discovers you
have a 4-year-old parking ticket. He hauls you out of your car, strip-searches
you, puts you in handcuffs and throws you in the slammer for 36 hours.

Ludicrous, you say? I'd agree. But that's akin to what happened last month to a
New Zealand woman who was trying to visit her in-laws in Portola Valley.

When Maggie Anderson and her husband, Doug, arrived at Los Angeles International
Airport July 24, they were tired and jet-lagged after the 12-hour flight. They
were surprised when Immigration and Naturalization Service officials told Maggie
Anderson she had overstayed her visa by eight days -- back in 1998.

Though nobody had noticed the lapse on any of Anderson's three Bay Area visits
since, this time INS officials sent her home.

But first, they searched and confiscated her luggage. They took her into a room
where she was groped by female INS agents wearing rubber gloves, who pushed up
her bra, felt her chest and put a hand inside her underwear. Then she was led in
handcuffs through the airport and held for 36 hours -- the first 12 hours,
without anything to eat or drink.

"You're pretty much cowed into this situation where you have no rights," says
Doug Anderson, who wasn't allowed to be with his wife of 27 years during her
ordeal.

Here's the worst part: An INS spokeswoman says Maggie Anderson's treatment was
standard operating procedure post-Sept. 11.

Common sense needed

In fact, the INS told the Mercury News this week, that what happened to Anderson
happens dozens of times every day at major airports.

Doug Anderson says one of the people in the holding area with his wife was a
Buddhist monk. Strip-searching clergy -- now that should buff America's image
abroad.

Look, I'm all in favor of strong borders. I've never understood the rationale
for turning a blind eye to people who are in the United States illegally.

But we're talking about a 51-year-old homemaker. She wasn't hiding a kilo of
coke or a bag of box cutters.

How about using a little common sense -- or common courtesy?

The INS needs "to make judgment calls" for travelers who pose no threat, agrees
U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who sits on the House immigration
subcommittee.

INS officials admit the new get-tough policy comes in the wake of stinging
criticism of agency incompetence that, for instance, led to student visas being
granted to two Sept. 11 hijackers six months after they destroyed the World
Trade Center.

Saad Ahmad, an immigration attorney in San Jose, says the INS has started
enforcing laws that, before Sept. 11, were often allowed to slide.

He says he's recently had clients deported for minor offenses like holding a
part-time job. People on student visas aren't supposed to work.

He and other immigration experts say the agency's zero-tolerance approach is
overkill.

"This is definitely sending people the wrong impression," Ahmad says. "I think
these policies are going to antagonize people."

Cold welcome

Doug Anderson, for one, says his wife will think twice about coming back to
California any time soon.

"I know what the mood is in the public," says Doug Anderson, a Woodside High
grad. He understands people want to feel safe. But, he notes, "If you treat
everybody with equal disdain, the cure becomes worse than the disease."

Ironically, a week after Anderson's rough treatment by the INS, President Bush
was making plans for a new "Office of Global Communications" that reportedly
will try to improve America's international image.

Here's a place to start: Don't treat foreign visitors like dirt bags over minor
red tape.

Peter Delevett's column appears Sunday and Wednesday. If you've got a scoop,
e-mail pdelevett@sjmercury. com or call (408) 271-3638. To subscribe to his
e-mail dispatch, see www.peterdelevett.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 27, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Income, education gaps widen;
CENSUS SHOWS ASIANS, WHITES STILL OUTPACING LATINOS, BLACKS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman and Michael Bazeley Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 858 words


The high-tech boom and influx of wealthy immigrants during the 1990s drove up
the median household income of Bay Area residents from every major racial and
ethnic group but also widened the economic gap between races.

Survey data released by the U.S. Census Bureau today reveals that Asians and
whites continued to outpace Latinos and blacks in terms of income and
educational attainment, underscoring the extreme contrasts of the Bay Area,
experts said.

Asians experienced the biggest gains, with their income growing by 21 percent,
in part because of highly educated immigrants on H-1B visas from India and China
who helped transform the demographic makeup of Silicon Valley.

Latinos, in contrast, made the smallest strides, with their income growing at
nearly half the rate of Asians. They also were the only group in the Bay Area to
see a decline in the number of high school graduates.

"In some ways, the Bay Area is like a gated community, writ large, where there
are very rich people, and there are a variety of mechanisms to keep out the
riffraff," said demographer William Frey, a senior fellow at Milken Institute in
Santa Monica. "There's a stark contrast between the rich and the poor."

The income gap partly reflects a disparity in education levels.

In 2000, less than one out of five black Bay Area residents had a bachelor's
degree, a slight increase from a decade earlier. Latinos experienced no change,
with about one of 10 earning a four-year degree. In contrast, nearly half of the
region's whites and Asians had at least a bachelor's degree.

Manuel Pastor Jr., a professor at the University of California-Santa Cruz,
attributes the growing income and education divide to an influx of poorly
educated Latin American immigrants and failures within the public school system.
More important, many Latino youth are afflicted with a sense of hopelessness as
they watch their parents struggle to make a living wage, he said.

"Right now what you're seeing is immigrants with flat wages," said Pastor,
professor of Latin American and Latino studies. "And the kids are saying, 'What
the hell is going on here? There's no way out.' "

In 1989, black residents trailed whites in median income by about $22,000. Ten
years later, African-Americans had fallen more than $27,000 behind. Similarly,
Bay Area Latinos lagged behind whites by about $12,000 in 1989, but that gap
grew to more than $16,000 a decade later. Experts predicted the slowing economy
will force the income gap even wider, as Latinos and African-Americans see their
unemployment rates rise.

Some demographers said that, now more than ever, communities need to find ways
to help those at the bottom of the wage scale.

"It's a knowledge economy, and what you're seeing is the people who are hurting
are the ones who are falling behind in education. Those are the ones who are
getting left out," said AnnaLee Saxenian, a demographer at University of
California-Berkeley.

That Asians and whites hold the greatest concentrations of wealth in the Bay
Area was not a big surprise to many experts. But they cautioned that not all
ethnicities within the area's diverse Asian households are high achievers or big
earners.

Studies have shown that Cambodians, Filipinos, Laotians and Vietnamese have much
lower median household incomes than Indians and Chinese, said Debbie Reed, an
economist with Public Policy Institute of California who has conducted studies
on income inequalities between racial groups.

Pacific Islanders, who make up less than 1 percent of the Bay Area population,
have a significantly lower median income than Asians as a whole.

Fremont businessman Jesse Singh and his younger brother, Jimmy, 38, who also
lives in Fremont, were among the Asians who immigrated to Silicon Valley during
the 1990s. The natives of Punjab, India, said they've seen firsthand the
dramatic demographic shift.

"There were hardly any Indians here," Jesse Singh said. "Back then, when you saw
somebody who looked Indian, you stopped and practically gave them a hug."

Fremont, a rapidly growing suburb of 200,000 residents, felt the impact of the
twin booms of immigration and high-tech perhaps like no other city in Silicon
Valley. High-tech business, ethnic restaurants and one of the largest Sikh
temples in the Bay Area have transformed Fremont's landscape.

Housing in new developments in the city's northern and southern stretches are
occupied by Chinese and Indo-Americans. More than one-third of the city's
population is Asian, and one-third of all households have a median income of
more than $100,000.

Fremont Hills, the neighborhood where Jimmy Singh moved to in early 1990 in
search of affordable housing and good schools, is a development of new
million-dollar homes on the tawny hills east of town.

"I feel pretty much at home here," said Jimmy Singh, who owns a computer memory
business in Fremont. "We have here what we left in Punjab."

Database director Griffin Palmer and database analyst Seth Hemmelgarn
contributed to this story. Contact Jessie Mangaliman at
jmangaliman@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 27, 2002 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

45% in county speak native tongue at home;
IMMIGRANTS CHOOSING NOT TO USE ENGLISH FOR COMFORT AND TO PRESERVE THEIR CULTURE

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words


Nearly half of Santa Clara County's residents speak a language other than
English at home, following a decade of immigration that reshaped the Bay Area's
ethnic landscape, according to census data released today.

For many immigrants, however, not speaking English at home is a matter of
choice, signaling the lessening of pressure to Americanize by abandoning their
native language. Many of the well-educated immigrants who came to work in
Silicon Valley arrived fluent in English.

They speak their first language at home out of comfort, or to preserve their
culture for their children, not from necessity.

"It used to be that for a person to become American, they had to give up their
own language and learn English," said Amado Padilla, an education professor at
Stanford University. These days, he said, immigrants and their offspring are
striving to be "bilingual and bicultural" by keeping their native language and
learning English.

According to figures from the 2000 census, 45 percent of Santa Clara County
residents spoke a language other than English at home, up from 32 percent a
decade ago. The story is similar elsewhere in the Bay Area. In San Mateo County,
for example, 41 percent spoke a language other than English at home, up from 32
percent; in Alameda County, that number was 37 percent, up from 25 percent.

In California, 40 percent of the population speaks a language other than
English.

"It's a national phenomenon that demands a coherent national response to help
immigrants adjust and ensure that their children get an equal chance to succeed
in school," said James Crawford, the Maryland-based author of "At War With
Diversity: U.S. Language Policy in an Age of Anxiety."

The census data was based on the responses to the 52-item census long-form
questionnaire, which was given to 1 in 6 households nationwide.

Respondents were asked if anyone, age 5 or older, speaks a language other than
English at home. If they answered yes, they were then asked what the language
was, and how well they speak English. And for many, it's a matter of choice.

Ben Ng and his wife, Jesse Wong, who immigrated from Hong Kong, speak English at
their high-tech companies, but speak only in Cantonese at their Milpitas home.
They worship in Cantonese at the San Jose Christian Alliance Church, which
offers services in five languages each Sunday -- English, Cantonese, Mandarin,
Spanish and Cambodian.

"It's our native tongue and we feel more comfortable," said Ng, a 29-year-old
customer service specialist. "It's very important to keep our heritage,
Chinese."

"It's easier to express ourselves," added Wong, a 28-year-old software trainer.

Most of the hundreds of families who attend the church at Tully Road and
McLaughlin Avenue are bilingual, yet the vast majority attend the monolingual,
non-English, services.

One in three Santa Clara County residents are foreign-born. In San Jose, more
than half -- 51 percent -- of residents speak a language other than English at
home, mostly Spanish, Vietnamese and Chinese dialects.

Other Bay Area cities show similar trends.

In Daly City, 66 percent speak a language other than English at home. In
Fremont, that number is 47 percent; in Union City, it's 59 percent; and in
Milpitas it's 60 percent. Those cities have large numbers of people who speak
Asian languages, including Mandarin, Tagalog, Hindi, Urdu and other Indian
dialects.

In North Fair Oaks, an unincorporated pocket between Atherton and Redwood City,
71 percent reported speaking a language other than English at home,
predominantly Spanish.

Francisco Castro, 49, and his wife, Delmy, 50, who left El Salvador in 1975,
speak limited English. But they said that has never been an obstacle. Both are
self-employed and earn a combined annual income of more than $100,000.

Francisco Castro, whose family worships in Spanish at the Christian Alliance
Church, is a loan officer and estimates 98 percent of his customers are
Spanish-speaking.

"This country has given us opportunities, even without English," said Castro,
who speaks to his two children in Spanish. "We know Latinos that have
businesses, and restaurants, and they live in this country without knowing
English completely."

While the reasons why immigrants choose to retain their native languages may
vary, sociologists say the pattern shows no signs of slowing.

"All this means," language expert James Crawford said, "is that language
diversity is here to stay."

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5432.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 2, 2002 Monday PS1 EDITION

Helping jobless get back on feet;
PROGRAM ASSISTS IMMIGRANT WOMEN SEEKING A CHANGE

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words


After being laid off from her Fremont electronics manufacturing job in the
spring, Kimberly Zhong is making a career transition from hardware to child
care.

Zhong is enrolled in Caregivers, the oldest and still one of the few Bay Area
programs that retrain immigrant and refugee women for new jobs.

Now instead of dealing with photonic processing, Zhong and three former
co-workers with Fremont-based Avanex are learning terms such as "vaccination"
and "home care provider." But some of the 80 women currently in the Caregivers
program have anxieties about their future as they prepare for a job in the child
care profession.

"It's hard," said Zhong, 35, of Hayward. "Everybody's worried and crying."

Caregivers itself has undergone a transformation in the past year or so. The
18-year-old non-profit agency once dealt almost exclusively with Cambodian and
Laotian women who wanted to leave their sewing factory jobs, the old sweatshops.
Now they have been primarily replaced by Chinese and Vietnamese women laid off
from high-tech assembly jobs, which some call the new sweatshops.

"The money's OK, but these women are required to work . . . the graveyard or
swing shift, or they have to work just under full time so they don't get
benefits," said Eve Castellanos, Caregivers' social services manager. "And
they're the first ones to be laid off; they're not upwardly mobile in the
company."

Since last year, there are 17,000 fewer workers in computer and electronics
companies, according to state unemployment figures for six Bay Area counties.
While finding a job for anyone in today's economy is difficult, women such as
Rose Chan have a steeper challenge because of their limited education and
English skills.

"I was laid off and can't find a job for eight months," said Chan, who lives in
Hayward with her three daughters and husband. She got a pink slip eight months
ago from Solectron in Milpitas as a quality control inspector making $12 an
hour.

"It's very hard to find a job," she said. "I need to find a new skill. I like
babies, and my eyes aren't so good anymore to do electronics."

Zhong tells a similar story. She said she moved to Oakland from Guangzhou,
formerly known as Canton, China, in the mid-1980s with her three siblings and
parents to find better jobs and more freedom. Since being laid off as a testing
operator at Avanex, where she made $10.25 an hour plus benefits and stock
options, she has been collecting unemployment checks and living with her
relatives.

Enter Caregivers, which is operated by the International Institute of the East
Bay in Oakland. The only similar program in the Bay Area is Manos Carinosas in
San Francisco, which serves Spanish-speaking women and this year launched a
child care training component. There are no known comparable programs in the
South Bay.

For those who are on welfare or receiving unemployment, Caregivers is free. The
program trains about 80 women a year in early childhood education development,
linking them to credit courses at Merritt College in Oakland.

The Caregivers program lasts between four and 12 months, and includes vocational
English courses, health and safety training, an internship at a child care
center and job placement services.

Bay Area child care providers can expect to make $8 to $15 an hour, often
without benefits, although the background at Caregivers could lead to a teaching
career.

During a recent Caregivers meeting, a class of almost 30 women was divided about
equally between Chinese and Vietnamese natives. One woman came from Ethiopia. A
third of the class had worked in electronics or fiber-optics factories, several
of which are in the South Bay. Many of them had been laid off.

Vietnamese-born Phung Vuong, 36, of Oakland, Zhong's former Avanex colleague,
worries about paying for health insurance since she lost her $9.75-an-hour job.
Her husband prints T-shirts, and they have an 11-year-old daughter.

Many of these women know about hard lives. Women from Cambodia write stories in
class about fleeing the Khmer Rouge with no food, clothes or medicine. Others
write about escaping Vietnam in the 1980s and traveling to the United States.

Most of these women still think the United States is a better place for their
families to live and learn.

Chan hasn't given up hope that her adopted country will once again be a land of
opportunities. Her husband, who was laid off as a supervisor at a Fremont
computer company, is now driving a school bus in Newark. Her three daughters,
all in their 20s, are studying at California State University-Hayward and also
work, two as lab technicians and the other as a loan underwriter.

Chan said she hopes to complete her courses and start taking care of children
for a living. For the time being, the Chan family will plug on, resisting urges
to be spendthrifts, until the economy picks up again.

"We used to go on vacations to Hawaii," Chan said. "And we went out a lot to
restaurants. Now, not so much anymore."

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To find out more about Caregivers classes and legal services, call (510)
451-2846, extension 309 or 307 or click on www.iieb.org.

Mercury News Researcher Leigh Poitinger contributed to this report. Contact Lisa
Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 2, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Helping jobless get back on feet;
PROGRAM ASSISTS IMMIGRANT WOMEN SEEKING A CHANGE

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words


After being laid off from her Fremont electronics manufacturing job in the
spring, Kimberly Zhong is making a career transition from hardware to child
care.

Zhong is enrolled in Caregivers, the oldest and still one of the few Bay Area
programs that retrain immigrant and refugee women for new jobs.

Now instead of dealing with photonic processing, Zhong and three former
co-workers with Fremont-based Avanex are learning terms such as "vaccination"
and "home care provider." But some of the 80 women currently in the Caregivers
program have anxieties about their future as they prepare for a job in the child
care profession.

"It's hard," said Zhong, 35, of Hayward. "Everybody's worried and crying."

Caregivers itself has undergone a transformation in the past year or so. The
18-year-old non-profit agency once dealt almost exclusively with Cambodian and
Laotian women who wanted to leave their sewing factory jobs, the old sweatshops.
Now they have been primarily replaced by Chinese and Vietnamese women laid off
from high-tech assembly jobs, which some call the new sweatshops.

"The money's OK, but these women are required to work . . . the graveyard or
swing shift, or they have to work just under full time so they don't get
benefits," said Eve Castellanos, Caregivers' social services manager. "And
they're the first ones to be laid off; they're not upwardly mobile in the
company."

Since last year, there are 17,000 fewer workers in computer and electronics
companies, according to state unemployment figures for six Bay Area counties.
While finding a job for anyone in today's economy is difficult, women such as
Rose Chan have a steeper challenge because of their limited education and
English skills.

"I was laid off and can't find a job for eight months," said Chan, who lives in
Hayward with her three daughters and husband. She got a pink slip eight months
ago from Solectron in Milpitas as a quality control inspector making $12 an
hour.

"It's very hard to find a job," she said. "I need to find a new skill. I like
babies, and my eyes aren't so good anymore to do electronics."

Zhong tells a similar story. She said she moved to Oakland from Canton, China,
in the mid-1980s with her three siblings and parents to find better jobs and
more freedom. Since being laid off as a testing operator at Avanex, where she
made $10.25 an hour plus benefits and stock options, she has been collecting
unemployment checks and living with her relatives.

Enter Caregivers, which is operated by the International Institute of the East
Bay in Oakland. The only similar program in the Bay Area is Manos Carinosas in
San Francisco, which serves Spanish-speaking women and this year launched a
child care training component. There are no known comparable programs in the
South Bay.

For those who are on welfare or receiving unemployment, Caregivers is free. The
program trains about 80 women a year in early childhood education development,
linking them to credit courses at Merritt College in Oakland.

The Caregivers program lasts between four and 12 months, and includes vocational
English courses, health and safety training, an internship at a child care
center and job placement services.

Bay Area child care providers can expect to make $8 to $15 an hour, often
without benefits, although the background at Caregivers could lead to a teaching
career.

During a recent Caregivers meeting, a class of nearly 30 women was divided
nearly equally between Chinese and Vietnamese natives. One woman came from
Ethiopia. A third of the class had worked in electronics or fiber-optics
factories, several of which are in the South Bay. Many of them had been laid
off.

Vietnamese-born Phung Vuong, 36, of Oakland, Zhong's former Avanex colleague,
worries about paying for health insurance since she lost her $9.75-an-hour job.
Her husband prints T-shirts, and they have an 11-year-old daughter.

Many of these women know about hard lives. Women from Cambodia write stories in
class about fleeing the Khmer Rouge with no food, clothes or medicine. Others
write about escaping Vietnam in the 1980s and traveling to the United States.

Most of these women still think the United States is a better place for their
families to live and learn.

Chan hasn't given up hope that her adopted country will once again be a land of
opportunities. Her husband, who was laid off as a supervisor at a Fremont
computer company, is now driving a school bus in Newark. Her three
twentysomething daughters are studying at California State University-Hayward
and also work, two as lab technicians and the other as a loan underwriter.

Chan said she hopes to complete her courses and start taking care of children
for a living. For the time being, the Chan family will plug on, resisting urges
to be spendthrifts, until the economy picks up again.

"We used to go on vacations to Hawaii," Chan said. "And we went out a lot to
restaurants. Now, not so much anymore."

To find out more about Caregivers classes and legal services, call (510)
451-2846, extension 309 or 307 or click on www.iieb.org.

Mercury News Researcher Leigh Poitinger contributed to this report. Contact Lisa
Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 2, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Helping jobless get back on feet;
PROGRAM ASSISTS IMMIGRANT WOMEN SEEKING A CHANGE

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words


After being laid off from her Fremont electronics manufacturing job in the
spring, Kimberly Zhong is making a career transition from hardware to child
care.

Zhong is enrolled in Caregivers, the oldest and still one of the few Bay Area
programs that retrain immigrant and refugee women for new jobs.

Now instead of dealing with photonic processing, Zhong and three former
co-workers with Fremont-based Avanex are learning terms such as "vaccination"
and "home care provider." But some of the 80 women currently in the Caregivers
program have anxieties about their future as they prepare for a job in the child
care profession.

"It's hard," said Zhong, 35, of Hayward. "Everybody's worried and crying."

Caregivers itself has undergone a transformation in the past year or so. The
18-year-old non-profit agency once dealt almost exclusively with Cambodian and
Laotian women who wanted to leave their sewing factory jobs, the old sweatshops.
Now they have been primarily replaced by Chinese and Vietnamese women laid off
from high-tech assembly jobs, which some call the new sweatshops.

Since last year, there are 17,000 fewer workers in computer and electronics
companies, according to state unemployment figures for six Bay Area counties.
While finding a job for anyone in today's economy is difficult, women such as
Rose Chan have a steeper challenge because of their limited education and
English skills.

"I was laid off and can't find a job for eight months," said Chan, who lives in
Hayward with her three daughters and husband. She got a pink slip eight months
ago from Solectron in Milpitas as a quality control inspector making $12 an
hour.

"It's very hard to find a job," she said. "I need to find a new skill. I like
babies, and my eyes aren't so good anymore to do electronics."

Zhong tells a similar story. She said she moved to Oakland from Guangzhou,
China, formerly known as Canton, in the mid-1980s with her three siblings and
parents to find better jobs and more freedom. Since being laid off as a testing
operator at Avanex, where she made $10.25 an hour plus benefits and stock
options, she has been collecting unemployment checks and living with her
relatives.

Enter Caregivers, which is operated by the International Institute of the East
Bay in Oakland. The only similar program in the Bay Area is Manos Carinosas in
San Francisco, which serves Spanish-speaking women and this year launched a
child care training component. There are no known comparable programs in the
South Bay.

For those who are on welfare or receiving unemployment, Caregivers is free. The
program trains about 80 women a year in early childhood education development,
linking them to credit courses at Merritt College in Oakland.

The Caregivers program lasts between four and 12 months, and includes vocational
English courses, health and safety training, an internship at a child care
center and job placement services.

Bay Area child care providers can expect to make $8 to $15 an hour, often
without benefits, although the background at Caregivers could lead to a teaching
career.

During a recent Caregivers meeting, a class of nearly 30 women was divided
nearly equally between Chinese and Vietnamese natives. One woman came from
Ethiopia. A third of the class had worked in electronics or fiber-optics
factories, several of which are in the South Bay. Many of them had been laid
off.

Vietnamese-born Phung Vuong, 36, of Oakland, Zhong's former Avanex colleague,
worries about paying for health insurance since she lost her $9.75-an-hour job.
Her husband prints T-shirts, and they have an 11-year-old daughter.

Many of these women know about hard lives. Women from Cambodia write stories in
class about fleeing the Khmer Rouge with no food, clothes or medicine. Others
write about escaping Vietnam in the 1980s and traveling to the United States.

Most of these women still think the United States is a better place for their
families to live and learn.

Chan hasn't given up hope that her adopted country will once again be a land of
opportunities. Her husband, who was laid off as a supervisor at a Fremont
computer company, is now driving a school bus in Newark. Her three
twentysomething daughters are studying at California State University-Hayward
and also work, two as lab technicians and the other as a loan underwriter.

Chan said she hopes to complete her courses and start taking care of children
for a living. For the time being, the Chan family will plug on, resisting urges
to be spendthrifts, until the economy picks up again.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTED

To find out more about Caregivers classes and legal services, call (510)
451-2846, extension 309 or 307 or click on www.iieb.org.

Mercury News Researcher Leigh Poitinger contributed to this report. Contact Lisa
Fernandez at lfernandez@sjmercury.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 21, 2001 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT STRIKES DOWN;
BLANKET DETENTION POLICY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 82 words

DATELINE: PENNSYLVANIA


In a case that could affect thousands of immigrants detained while they fight
deportation, a federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled Wednesday that the
government's mandatory detention policy was unconstitutional, and that each
detainee is entitled to an individualized bond hearing.

The court said that while the government has a right to detain those who might
flee or pose a threat to the community, the blanket detention policy violates
the constitutional right to due process.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 2002 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

16 CHINESE HIDDEN ON SHIP ARE DETAINED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH


Sixteen Chinese nationals found hiding in a cargo container aboard a China
Overseas Shipping vessel were sent to the Mira Loma Detention Center in
Lancaster on Sunday. The men or boys, who appeared to have made a two-week
journey from China in good condition, were discovered Saturday when the ship
came into port.

They were questioned at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center on Terminal Island, and will be kept at Mira Loma until granted a
political asylum hearing, in about two weeks, said Tom Graber, INS port director
in Los Angeles.

The China Overseas Shipping vessel left Chiwan, China, on Jan. 19 and made stops
in Hong Kong and Japan before arriving in Long Beach. Graber said the container
probably was loaded onto the ship in mainland China.

The cargo container was in the ship's hold and housed food, cooling fans, a
portable generator and makeshift toilets, Graber said. The container also had
holes cut into the sides so people could escape once it was unloaded.

"Generally, that's the way it's done," Graber said. "The holes are just big
enough for a human to get out of."

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 4, 2002 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

16 CHINESE HIDDEN ON SHIP ARE DETAINED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: LONG BEACH


Sixteen Chinese nationals found hiding in a cargo container aboard a China
Overseas Shipping vessel were sent to the Mira Loma Detention Center in
Lancaster on Sunday. The men or boys, who appeared to have made a two-week
journey from China in good condition, were discovered Saturday when the ship
came into port.

They were questioned at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention
center on Terminal Island, and will be kept at Mira Loma until granted a
political asylum hearing, in about two weeks, said Tom Graber, INS port director
in Los Angeles.

The China Overseas Shipping vessel left Chiwan, China, on Jan. 19 and made stops
in Hong Kong and Japan before arriving in Long Beach. Graber said the container
probably was loaded onto the ship in mainland China.

The cargo container was in the ship's hold and housed food, cooling fans, a
portable generator and makeshift toilets, Graber said. The container also had
holes cut into the sides so people could escape once it was unloaded.

"Generally, that's the way it's done," Graber said. "The holes are just big
enough for a human to get out of."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      April 17, 2002 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Detainees allege abuse;
RELEASED MEN TELL OF HARSH PRISON CONDITIONS

BYLINE: Steve Fainaru Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Inside the Special Housing Unit of the Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn, dozens of detainees held for months in connection with the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks have been confined to their cells nearly 24 hours a day.

The lights are always on, making it difficult to sleep. The prisoners are
subject to body-cavity searches after each meeting with their attorneys. They
are transported in shackles, handcuffs and waist chains.

In some cases, the detainees have been subject to harassment by prison guards
and rough treatment that has left them bloodied.

The conditions were described by several detainees recently released from MDC
who offered the first public glimpse of life inside the federal prison's
maximum-security unit, supposedly reserved for some of the most important
suspects in the government's terrorism investigation.

The facility, run by the Bureau of Prisons, has come under scrutiny recently
because the Justice Department's Office of Inspector General is conducting a
"review" to determine whether authorities violated the civil rights of detainees
held at MDC and another facility, the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J.

Immigration lawyers and advocates have lodged repeated allegations of civil
rights violations involving the detainees at MDC, who over time have numbered
perhaps several dozen of the more than 1,200 people picked up in the
government's massive dragnet after Sept. 11.

A legal group, the Center for Constitutional Rights, announced Tuesday that it
planned to file a class-action lawsuit today against federal officials and
unidentified MDC corrections officers who allegedly committed abuses against
detainees.

Although the Justice Department has conducted its investigation in total
secrecy, it appears that none of those held under maximum-security conditions
has been charged with a terrorism-related crime.

In fact, is unclear why the three detainees who spoke to the Washington Post or
others at MDC had been placed in the Special Housing Unit rather than other
facilities where hundreds of detainees connected to the investigation have been
kept in conditions that are far less restrictive.

Officials with the Bureau of Prisons, the INS and the Justice Department
declined to comment on specific cases. One U.S. official said the decision on
where and how a detainee would be confined was made at "the highest levels of
the Justice Department" and was evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

The decisions, the official said, depended on several issues, including the
nature of the evidence that had been gathered, available space in the detention
facilities and whether the detainee presented a flight or safety risk.

Anser Mehmood, a 42-year-old Pakistani immigrant, said that shortly after his
arrival, prison guards shoved his faced into the wall, bloodying his lip, and
threatened to kill him if he spoke.

Mehmood said he was held for 123 days in the MDC's Special Housing Unit before
being moved into the general population, a transition he described as "going
from hell to heaven."

On April 4, he was transferred from MDC to Passaic County Jail to await
deportation after a judge sentenced him to time served for overstaying his visa
and purchasing a fake Social Security card that he used to gain employment.

Shakir Ali Baloch, a 39-year-old Canadian citizen and a native of Pakistan,
offered a similar description of life inside the Special Housing Unit.

According to Baloch, he was taken into custody by FBI and INS officials in late
September while attending classes in Queens to earn his taxi license.

Baloch said he had entered the country illegally from Canada and had purchased a
fake Social Security card to acquire a driver's license. But he said he is still
unsure why authorities decided to put him in MDC.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday

Mexican guest workers seek Congress' help with back pay

BYLINE: By Mark Sherman, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 757 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The last time Juventino Ortiz tried to collect the rest of his pay for picking
fruit in Northern California, a government official chased him out of his
office.

In the 55 years since then, the Mexico City native forgot about the money,
became a U.S. citizen and raised a family in Hollister, Calif.

But now, at 81, he and thousands of other former Mexican "guest workers" who say
they were denied a portion of their wages want their money. At the very least,
they want their day in court.

"Is it live or die? No," Ortiz said Wednesday in Washington. "It's the
principle."

The Justice Department, in court papers, says the claim is too old and is trying
to get a federal judge to dismiss a class-action lawsuit alleging hundreds of
thousands of Mexicans who worked in America between 1942 and 1949 never received
money deducted from their wages.

Legislation introduced Wednesday in Congress would prevent the government from
having the suit dismissed on procedural grounds.

Ortiz was one of nearly 5 million Mexican guest workers recruited to the United
States between 1942 and 1964 to harvest crops and maintain railroad tracks. The
"bracero" program -- which comes from the Spanish for "arm" -- was launched
during World War II to help fill jobs left vacant by U.S. workers called to
fight.

In an unusual agreement between the U.S. and Mexican governments, the braceros
had 10 percent of their wages deducted and sent, via Wells Fargo, to Mexican
banks to serve as savings accounts. The agreement was supposed to serve as an
incentive for the workers to return to Mexico once their contracts expired.

Ortiz said he tried unsuccessfully to get his money.

"I went back to Mexico City to the government office to see about my 10
percent," Ortiz recalled Wednesday. "They said, 'What are you talking about? Get
out of here.'"

About 200 former braceros and their families rallied Wednesday in downtown Los
Angeles in support of the bill. Among them was Alfonso Ortega, 85, a migrant
worker from 1942 through 1950 who was paid 60 cents an hour.

"I believe I have the right to the money," Ortega said through a translator.

Joaquin De Luna, 82, said U.S. officials didn't let him return home to his wife
and children in Mexico when he decided he didn't like the impoverished
conditions.

"I didn't want to pick their lettuce," he said through a translator.

De Luna said he doesn't believe he'll get back the 10 percent, but added, "If
this country has any shame, it would give it back with interest and credit."

The lawsuit, filed last year in San Francisco, is against the U.S. and Mexican
governments, along with four banks. Although the pay was as low as 30 cents an
hour, advocates for the braceros say at least $500 million is owed, including
interest.

The suit is patterned after successful claims by Holocaust survivors against
Swiss banks and German companies.

The Mexican government says U.S. courts have no jurisdiction in the matter.
Wells Fargo spokesman Larry Haeg said a review of company records indicates it
transferred all the money it received. A hearing is scheduled in U.S. District
Court in San Francisco in early August.

Bill Lann Lee, former assistant attorney general for civil rights in the Clinton
administration, said the Justice Department supported extending the statute of
limitations in a lawsuit by black farmers alleging discrimination by the
Agriculture Department.

"We think justice would be served by having the case heard on its merits," said
Lee, whose San Francisco law firm represents the braceros.

The legislation, co-authored by Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Rep. Sam Farr,
D-Calif., would prevent the Justice Department from using the passage of time
and sovereign immunity to block the claims.

"These issues are unrelated to the merits of the case," Farr said at a news
conference in front of the Capitol. "They're just legal excuses for why they
can't get to first base."

Farr represents the Salinas Valley, where many Mexican workers picked fruits and
vegetables.

Other workers ended up in rail yards and on track maintenance crews. Felipe Nava
still has the yellowed identity card that allowed him into the United States and
eventually got him a job paying 90 cents an hour -- "which was beautiful," he
said -- working for the old New York Central Railroad in Syracuse, N.Y.

"Ninety cents was good money, enough to buy a shirt and a breakfast," said Nava,
80, of LaGrange, Ill.

On the Net:

Bracero Justice Project: www.bracerojustice.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              339 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 13, 2002 Thursday

'Guest workers' seek $500 million pay -- 55 years later;
Suit targets U.S., Mexico, 4 banks

BYLINE: By Mark Sherman, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT PAGE

LENGTH: 630 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The last time Juventino Ortiz tried to collect the rest of his pay for picking
fruit in Northern California, a government official chased him out of his
office.

In the 55 years since then, the Mexico City native forgot about the money,
became a U.S. citizen and raised a family in Hollister.

But now, at 81, he and thousands of other former Mexican "guest workers" who say
they were denied a portion of their wages want their money. At the very least,
they want their day in court.

"Is it live or die? No," Ortiz said Wednesday in Washington. "It's the
principle."

The Justice Department, in court papers, says the claim is too old and is trying
to get a federal judge to dismiss a class-action lawsuit alleging hundreds of
thousands of Mexicans who worked in America between 1942 and 1949 never received
money deducted from their wages.

Legislation introduced Wednesday in Congress would prevent the government from
having the suit dismissed on procedural grounds.

Ortiz was one of nearly five million Mexican guest workers recruited to the
United States between 1942 and 1964 to harvest crops and maintain railroad
tracks. The "bracero" program -- which comes from the Spanish for "arm" -- was
launched during World War II to help fill jobs left vacant by U.S. workers
called to fight.

In an unusual agreement between the U.S. and Mexican governments, the braceros
had 10 percent of their wages deducted and sent, via Wells Fargo, to Mexican
banks to serve as savings accounts. The agreement was supposed to serve as an
incentive for the workers to return to Mexico once their contracts expired.

Ortiz said he tried unsuccessfully to get his money.

"I went back to Mexico City to the government office to see about my 10
percent," Ortiz recalled Wednesday. "They said, 'What are you talking about? Get
out of here.'"

The lawsuit, filed last year in San Francisco, is against the U.S. and Mexican
governments, along with four banks. Although the pay was as low as 30 cents an
hour, advocates for the braceros say at least $500 million is owed, including
interest.

The suit is patterned after successful claims by Holocaust survivors against
Swiss banks and German companies.

The Mexican government says U.S. courts have no jurisdiction in the matter.
Wells Fargo spokesman Larry Haeg said a review of company records indicates it
transferred all the money it received. A hearing is scheduled in U.S. District
Court in San Francisco in early August.

Bill Lann Lee, former assistant attorney general for civil rights in the Clinton
administration, said the Justice Department supported extending the statute of
limitations in a lawsuit by black farmers alleging discrimination by the
Agriculture Department.

"We think justice would be served by having the case heard on its merits," said
Lee, whose San Francisco law firm represents the braceros.

The legislation, co-authored by Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Rep. Sam Farr,
D-Monterey, would prevent the Justice Department from using the passage of time
and sovereign immunity to block the claims.

"These issues are unrelated to the merits of the case," Farr said at a news
conference in front of the Capitol. Farr represents the Salinas Valley, where
many Mexican workers picked fruits and vegetables.

Other workers ended up in rail yards and on track maintenance crews. Felipe Nava
still has the yellowed identity card that allowed him into the United States and
eventually got him a job paying 90 cents an hour -- "which was beautiful," he
said -- working for the old New York Central Railroad in Syracuse, N.Y.

"Ninety cents was good money, enough to buy a shirt and a breakfast," said Nava,
80, of LaGrange, Ill.

On the Net:

Bracero Justice Project: www.bracerojustice.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              340 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                             June 25, 2002 Tuesday

Sun faces

SECTION: BUSINESS HEADLINES

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA


investigation

over firings

BLOOMBERG NEWS

Sun Microsystems Inc. said the U.S. government is examining a former employee's
complaint that the server-computer maker discriminated against U.S. citizens as
it fired workers last year.

Units of the Justice and Labor departments asked Sun for information after Guy
Santiglia alleged that Sun favored foreign workers on H-1B visas, Sun
spokeswoman Diane Carlini said. The departments haven't started a formal
investigation, and Sun is cooperating with the requests, she said.

Santiglia had worked at Sun for four months and lost his job when the company
cut 3,900 people in October, its first-ever firings, Carlini said.

Santiglia couldn't immediately be reached to comment. The San Jose Mercury News,

which reported the complaint Monday, quoted Santiglia as saying that Sun fired
U.S. citizens and kept foreign workers in the same jobs.

The Justice Department's civil rights unit has asked for the citizenship status
of every Sun employee before and after the firings, he told the paper.

Sun's Carlini wouldn't say what information has been requested.

Justice Department spokeswoman Casey Stavropoulos declined to comment on whether
the agency is conducting an investigation, and Labor Department spokeswoman Sue
Hensley said the agency can't comment on ongoing investigations.

Sun shares fell 0.03 to 5.48 on Monday. They've lost 62 percent of their value
in the past year.

H-1B visas are issued for as long as six years to help companies find extra
workers when they say there aren't enough qualified U.S. employees to fill jobs.

Computer-related companies from Sun to Intel Corp. to Microsoft Corp. have
lobbied to increase the number of visas available each year. Critics say the
program encourages companies to replace U.S. workers with foreign nationals who
will work longer hours for less money.

"We haven't done anything wrong," Carlini said. "It's a touchy subject, and we
certainly don't want any misconceptions about use of H-1B visas."

Santa Clara-based Sun doesn't save money by hiring workers with the visas and
isn't bypassing qualified U.S. employees, she said.

Companies and other groups in the U.S. sought 14 percent more visas last year
than in 2000, even amid a sliding economy and a surge in firings, according to
figures the Immigration and Naturalization Service released in January.

More than 342,000 H-1B visas were sought last year for skilled foreign workers,
compared with almost 300,000 sought in 2000, according to preliminary INS data
released in January. The applications include foreign workers already in the
U.S. under the H-1B program, those seeking an extension and people who were
denied a visa. The H-1B program brought 163,200 skilled foreign employees to the
U.S. last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2002 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              341 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 9, 2001 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAYOFFS SPUR RETURN TO INDIA BUSINESSES CATERING TO WORKERS FEEL PINCH, TOO TECH
WORKERS ON SPECIAL VISAS AND UNSKILLED LABORERS LOSE WORK AS DOWNTURN AFFECTS
TWO TYPES OF FOREIGN WORKERS IN THE VALLEY

BYLINE: MICHELLE QUINN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1425 words


George Kohli rolls up the door to storage lot 136 and confronts the remains of
the boom economy.

Forty-eight identical striped couches, stacked floor to ceiling, fill a dimly
lit mini-storage compartment the size of a large two-car garage. Across the way,
mattresses are stacked on end. And in yet another compartment, dozens of TVs and
VCRs are piled high.

Kohli's collection of domestic debris is a graveyard of sorts. All this
furniture was, until very recently, in the homes of the tech elite. They came to
Silicon Valley from cities in India such as Kolkata (formerly Calcutta) and
Mumbai (formerly Bombay) to take big-money jobs writing code, the detail work of
the dot-com dream.

Now the jobs are vanishing -- and so are they.

Kohli made his living renting furniture and cars to these workers. But in the
past three months, most of his customers have been laid off. Many have left the
area or returned to India leaving behind all the detritus of a pilgrim's life
interrupted -- rented microwaves, blankets and kitchen tables. Each week, Kohli
rents more space from All Aboard Mini Storage in Sunnyvale to make room for more
furniture. And everything is for sale. If you need atwin-sized bed (or 200),
talk to Kohli.

Technology companies and the foreign workers they once employed are not the only
ones hurt by the economic downturn. During the boom, a whole ecosystem of
services and other enterprises grew up to serve the needs of the workers here on
H-1B and other work visas tied to tech jobs. Many valley businesses have been
hit hard by the slowdown, but the businesses that catered to H-1B workers say
they have been doubly hurt.

Reverse migration

Since the temporary work visa program began in 1992, skilled technology workers
have come here from China, the United Kingdom, Japan, the Philippines, Canada
and elsewhere to fill jobs that employers say they cannot fill with American
workers. More than anywhere else, they come from India. Last year, Indian
nationals received 44 percent of the 115,000 H-1B visas issued compared with 10
percent for Chinese nationals, according to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Now, nowhere is the H-1B exodus felt more than in the Bay Area's Indo-American
community. Evidence of a reverse migration is as close as the corner store.
Today, Indian restaurants that expanded in the past two years say business is
down as much as 40 percent. Taxi drivers who remember earning as much as $400 a
day driving these workers to and from their offices -- and to Napa or Santa Cruz
for weekend trips -- say they are lucky to make $100 for a 12-hour shift. Stores
that rent Indian videos say every day brings a new stream of customers closing
their accounts and retrieving their deposits.

"A huge infrastructure was being built up around their presence," said Rafiq
Dossani, a senior research scholar at the Asia/Pacific Research Center at
Stanford University.

The pain is most evident on a four-mile stretch of El Camino Real in Sunnyvale
known as Gandhinagar after the capital of Gujarat state in India. During the
boom, this stretch of Indian grocery stores, video rental shops, clothing
boutiques and restaurants was riding high, thanks in no small part to H-1B
customers -- mostly throngs of single men far from home.

"Last year, you couldn't get a place to sit in this place," said retired
businessman Krishna Venkatesan, 59, while he ate lunch with his daughter at
Bhavika Food To Go, a South Indian cafe with five tables in Gandhinagar. "You'd
have to stand outside and eat."

Now, restaurants along the strip are half-full at lunch time. Makeshift "For
Sale" signs hang on bulletin boards outside stores, as people in a hurry to
leave the valley advertise their futons, ski gear, PlayStations and Hondas. Some
of the fliers hint at how quickly the reversal has hit: "Brand New Honda CRV.
Bought May 2001 for $25,000. Want $20,500."

Unexpected change

Emboldened by the flush times, many restaurant owners such as Ricki Kumar
decided to expand, only to be caught by surprise when the exodus began. The
Kumar family's bakery and cafe, Lovely Sweets & Snacks, has been a popular
Fremont establishment for five years. Several months ago, Kumar opened a second
location in Sunnyvale to take advantage of the H-1B traffic in Gandhinagar. But
the new venture has struggled. Recently he slashed the lunch special from $6.99
to $4.99 and began offering free drinks.

"What I was expecting is not the way it is going," Kumar said.

No one is sure how many Indian nationals came to Silicon Valley on work-related
visas while the valley's tech industry was rapidly expanding; the Immigration
and Naturalization Service only knows that half of H-1B visas went to the
technology industry. And no one really knows how many of these workers have left
the Bay Area for India or other destinations -- speculation ranges wildly from
1,000 to 10,000. The INS does not keep track of people leaving the country, said
Eyleen Schmidt, an INS spokeswoman.

Many H-1B visa holders are still working. And not every laid-off H-1B worker
wants to leave. Some are hoping odd jobs will see them through until the tech
industry rebounds. In Sunnyvale's Gandhinagar, shopkeepers and taxi-cab
dispatchers now find themselves in the awkward position of turning down former
customers who are desperate for any kind of work. Most -- but not all --
business owners are aware it is illegal to hire a laid-off H-1B workerwithout
securing a new working visa for that person.

Kalpesh Patel, chief executive of Dalpat Enterprises, which operates an
electronics store, a grocery store and a wholesale grocery business, turns away
laid-off H-1B workers asking for jobs. "If you need help, I'll help you," he
tells them. "But I don't have any room anymore."

A month ago, Kumar, owner of Lovely Sweets and Snacks, hired two laid-off
temporary software engineers to hand out fliers, paying them minimum wage. They
worked for a month before leaving for India, he said.

Aman Singh, owner of Green Cab of Sunnyvale, employs a laid-off engineer here on
an H-1B visa as a driver on the night shift. The employee earns $2,500 per month
driving, compared with the $4,500 monthly he made as an engineer, said Singh.
"You'd think engineering is a safe job," Singh said.

The exodus is not bad news for everyone serving the H-1B workers. Travel agents
are reporting a brisk business in one-way plane tickets to India. The
Immigration and Naturalization Service requires that employers pay for
transportation home if laid-off temporary workers ask for it. In the past two
months, Biren Chowdhary, owner of Orbit Travel in Newark and president of the
Federation of Indo-American Associations of Bay Area, has sold up to 600 one-way
tickets to India, mostly to Indians here on temporary work visas. "I've been
busy sending people home," he said.

Lonely newcomer

While some H-1B workers head for the departure gates, others continue to arrive.
Nishit Desai, 26, came to Silicon Valley from Goa on July 2. Since then, two of
his roommates here on work-related visas have gone back to India. A third leaves
this weekend. Desai and his roommates had rented furniture from George Kohli. As
the roommates decamped, Kohli steadily reclaimed beds, sofas and chairs. Now,
Desai finds himself living a nomadic life, bouncing from one shared apartment to
another. "There's no point in having a bed," he said.

The upheaval is generating its own urban legends. One making the rounds on El
Camino Real is that H-1B workers are driving to airports and dumping their cars
because they cannot sell them before their departure to pay off the outstanding
loan balance. Airport officials in San Francisco and San Jose say they have not
seen an increase in abandoned cars.

For George Kohli, the end of the dot-com dream for his H-1B customers has meant
the end of his furniture enterprise. "I've taken my profit and who knows what
God has in store for me," he said. He is rather sanguine about the loss. After
prospering for a decade from a niche market, it was clearly time to diversify
beyond Honda Civics and kitchen tables. One idea, albeit in the early stages, is
a health business based on the healing properties of water.

Kohli recently showed a visitor a white Toyota Corolla with a smashed right
side. That morning, the H-1B worker who rented the car from Kohli hit a parked
car.

Kohli has lost six cars in the past month due to accidents. People's minds, he
said, are somewhere else.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SLOWDOWN IN THE VALLEY

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
George Kohli, right, supervises movers as they pack away rental furniture he
reclaimed from laid-off customers.
PHOTO: EUGENE H. LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Bhargavi Patel, owner of Manisha Saree Palace in Sunnyvale, says business has
dropped nearly in half since the economic downturn began.

                     Copyright 2001 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 26, 2002 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISA DEMAND RISES;
SKILLED FOREIGN WORKERS HIRED AMID RECESSION

BYLINE: JENNIFER BJORHUS, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 664 words


U.S. demand for visas to hire skilled foreign workers rose last year despite a
recession that caused more than 1 million people to lose their jobs.

U.S. companies and other groups applied for 342,035 H-1B work visas last year,
up 14 percent from 2000, when the country's economy was strong. About 163,200
H-1B visas were actually granted last year, up more than 40 percent, after
Congress, under pressure from the technology industry, raised the cap on the
number of visas the Immigration and Naturalization Service can issue.

At least 29,000 more visas are pending.

"I think it surprised everyone," said Mark Shevitz, a vice president at
Chicago-based VisaNow.com, a company that processes visas for clients and that
studied the increase. "All you hear about in the media is these huge layoffs and
the tech industry is just shedding workers."

The H-1B is a six-year visa used for bringing in skilled foreign workers in
sectors where there are supposed to be shortages of qualified U.S. ones. The
program is a political hot potato and last year's increases, which seem
counterintuitive, are sure to fuel the ongoing debate about the controversial
program.

Oracle, Cisco Systems, Intel and Sun Microsystems were among the top users of
the program in 2000, as were universities such as Harvard and Yale. How many
applications the tech giants filed last year amid layoffs wasn't immediately
available. About half the H-1B visas the U.S. government grants each year are
for computer-related jobs and about half go to people from India, with China a
far second.

Demand for engineers

Supporters of the H-1B program say the U.S. needs it because the nation's
schools aren't graduating enough computer engineers to meet demand. Critics say
companies are just trying to get workers cheaply, and that H-1B workers get
lower salaries.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said he's aware of VisaNow.com's report and argues
that the agency is simply processing paperwork and has no role in determining
H-1B need. That's the job of Congress and the U.S. Department of Labor, he said.

"If we had a dog in that fight, we'd be happy to weigh in," Bergeron said.

There are several possible reasons for the increase, says Shevitz. One is that
despite rough times, the technology industry created 80,000 new engineering and
computer jobs, he said.

Part of the increase may be due to the fact that last year, for the first time,
colleges and universities shopping for researchers were made exempt from the cap
on the number of visas that can be issued. That possibly spurred more
applications from this group.

The increase may also be capturing some tech-industry flux, Shevitz said, as
H-1B visa workers transferring from one company to another or renewing H-1B
visas granted earlier are counted as applications.

VisaNow.com based its report on data from the INS, Department of Labor and other
agencies. The 2001 data reflected H-1B visa applications for the federal fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30.

Lower wages

Norman Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California-Davis and a leading critic of the H-1B program, argues that the main
reason for the increase is basic economics: During a recession, companies are
more eager than ever to cut costs. Matloff cites several studies that conclude
the average annual wages of computer programmers and engineers working in the
U.S. on H-1B visas are 15 percent to 33 percent lower than those of U.S.
citizens. That's despite laws about paying the immigrants the so-called
prevailing wage, he said, because "prevailing wage" is a squishy legal concept.

Fewer than half of the young U.S. computer programmers hired that U.S. companies
hire are actually placed into programming positions, according to Matloff.

"Instead, more than half of the new graduates are shunted into
non-technical/semi-technical positions such as customer support, while the H-1Bs
are hired into the technical positions," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 26, 2002 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B VISA DEMAND RISES;
SKILLED FOREIGN WORKERS HIRED AMID RECESSION

BYLINE: JENNIFER BJORHUS, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 664 words


U.S. demand for visas to hire skilled foreign workers rose last year despite a
recession that caused more than 1 million people to lose their jobs.

U.S. companies and other groups applied for 342,035 H-1B work visas last year,
up 14 percent from 2000, when the country's economy was strong. About 163,200
H-1B visas were actually granted last year, up more than 40 percent, after
Congress, under pressure from the technology industry, raised the cap on the
number of visas the Immigration and Naturalization Service can issue.

At least 29,000 more visas are pending.

"I think it surprised everyone," said Mark Shevitz, a vice president at
Chicago-based VisaNow.com, a company that processes visas for clients and that
studied the increase. "All you hear about in the media is these huge layoffs and
the tech industry is just shedding workers."

The H-1B is a six-year visa used for bringing in skilled foreign workers in
sectors where there are supposed to be shortages of qualified U.S. ones. The
program is a political hot potato and last year's increases, which seem
counterintuitive, are sure to fuel the ongoing debate about the controversial
program.

Oracle, Cisco Systems, Intel and Sun Microsystems were among the top users of
the program in 2000, as were universities such as Harvard and Yale. How many
applications the tech giants filed last year amid layoffs wasn't immediately
available. About half the H-1B visas the U.S. government grants each year are
for computer-related jobs and about half go to people from India, with China a
far second.

Demand for engineers

Supporters of the H-1B program say the U.S. needs it because the nation's
schools aren't graduating enough computer engineers to meet demand. Critics say
companies are just trying to get workers cheaply, and that H-1B workers get
lower salaries.

INS spokesman Russ Bergeron said he's aware of VisaNow.com's report and argues
that the agency is simply processing paperwork and has no role in determining
H-1B need. That's the job of Congress and the U.S. Department of Labor, he said.

"If we had a dog in that fight, we'd be happy to weigh in," Bergeron said.

There are several possible reasons for the increase, says Shevitz. One is that
despite rough times, the technology industry created 80,000 new engineering and
computer jobs, he said.

Part of the increase may be due to the fact that last year, for the first time,
colleges and universities shopping for researchers were made exempt from the cap
on the number of visas that can be issued. That possibly spurred more
applications from this group.

The increase may also be capturing some tech-industry flux, Shevitz said, as
H-1B visa workers transferring from one company to another or renewing H-1B
visas granted earlier are counted as applications.

VisaNow.com based its report on data from the INS, Department of Labor and other
agencies. The 2001 data reflected H-1B visa applications for the federal fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30.

Lower wages

Norman Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California-Davis and a leading critic of the H-1B program, argues that the main
reason for the increase is basic economics: During a recession, companies are
more eager than ever to cut costs. Matloff cites several studies that conclude
the average annual wages of computer programmers and engineers working in the
U.S. on H-1B visas are 15 percent to 33 percent lower than those of U.S.
citizens. That's despite laws about paying the immigrants the so-called
prevailing wage, he said, because "prevailing wage" is a squishy legal concept.

Fewer than half of the young U.S. computer programmers hired that U.S. companies
hire are actually placed into programming positions, according to Matloff.

"Instead, more than half of the new graduates are shunted into
non-technical/semi-technical positions such as customer support, while the H-1Bs
are hired into the technical positions," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       April 15, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Tech job training risks getting sacked;
WHITE HOUSE SEEKS TO PROCESS H-1B VISAS

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words


The White House wants to gut a technology training program for U.S. workers,
spending the money instead to speed up paperwork for foreign workers.

The proposal strikes at a hot-button issue for Silicon Valley's laid-off tech
workers; they fear their positions slowly are being filled by cheaper, skilled
workers from overseas.

But the U.S. government says the job training program for Americans is
ineffective. It says that, despite the training funding, tech companies continue
to scramble for skilled foreign engineers, many of whom enter the United States
through the H-1B visa program.

"You'd assume that if these projects had been successful, the number of H-1B
requests would be going down, and they're not," said Mason Bishop, an aide to
the assistant secretary for employment and training at the U.S. Department of
Labor.

Valley companies are largely mum on the latest move. They must walk a fine line,
supporting job training for Americans while welcoming tech-savvy foreigners who
can fill jobs immediately.

"Our members really haven't given it a huge amount of thought," said Rick White,
chief executive of TechNet, a Palo Alto lobbying group representing 230
tech-related companies.

But the proposal, tucked inside President Bush's national budget, has upset some
Silicon Valley job trainers. And one major high-tech trade association called
the proposal a poor idea.

The Information Technology Association of America, based in Arlington, Va.,
defended the training grants and said they were never meant to be a quick fix.
The training is a "major good for the economy and the public and the U.S.
workforce," said association President Harris Miller.

The goal of the job training program was to prepare U.S. citizens for high-tech
jobs to reduce demand for foreign workers. Congress created it in 1998 in a
trade-off for raising the cap on the number of H-1B visas that companies use to
bring skilled foreigners to work in the United States for up to six years. The
training program is financed by part of the $1,000 fee companies pay when they
apply for foreign workers.

But the national budget sent to Congress in February labeled the H-1B Technical
Skills Training Grants program "ineffective," along with three other U.S.
Department of Labor programs.

According to the Bush administration, the H-1B Technical Skills Training Grants
are teaching low-level computer skills that aren't lifting U.S. workers up to
the level of highly educated foreigners on H-1B visas, many of whom have college
and graduate degrees. Some of the job training being funded doesn't even focus
on high tech.

"One grant financed training for cable installers; another trained licensed
practical nurses; while a third was open only to union members in the
entertainment industry," the budget reads. The grant program "has no prospect"
of educating workers to take the place of people on H-1B visas, it says.

Meanwhile, there's a backlog of foreign workers waiting for permanent labor
certification, Bishop said. In some cases it can take states five years to
process those cases. Some of those workers are already in the United States.

The Bush administration proposes shifting the grant program's $138 million to
the labor department's permanent alien labor certification program to speed up
processing a backlog of cases. The proposed shift would require legislation or
inclusion in the appropriations bill.

Mike Curran, director of a local job-training program called the NOVA Workforce
Board in Sunnyvale, said the country will lose out in the long run if it doesn't
nurture a home-grown high-tech workforce.

NOVA has received $4.3 million from the program in recent years, Curran said,
and has moved many of the trainees into technology jobs. The program doesn't
train people immediately to replace foreign workers on H-1B visas, he said, but
can get people onto the career ladders that lead to it.

"Our strategy has always been to try to take the talent that we have here and
upgrade their skills to further their career opportunities," Curran said.

Curran said NOVA trained the first people in the country to graduate from the
federal grants program -- a group of 25 high school graduates who went to a
summer boot camp two years ago at Evergreen College. Some of those graduates
went on to work at Sun Microsystems, Curran said.

So far this year, three California groups have won grants totaling $11.2 million
from the federal program. In addition to NOVA, the Riverside County Economic
Development Agency and Richmond Workforce Investment Board won grants.

Both Curran and Harris said that shifting the money from domestic job training
to foreign workers violates the deal that was struck in Congress when the cap on
H-1B visas was raised during the tech boom.

"It's kind of like changing what the rules of the game were meant to be about,"
Curran said.

Contact Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       June 13, 2002 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Bill would support workers' pay campaign;
W.W. II-ERA BRACEROS RALLY IN L.A. FOR MONEY WITHHELD FROM WAGES

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The last time Juventino Ortiz tried to collect the rest of his pay for picking
fruit in Northern California, a government official chased him out of his
office.

In the 55 years since then, the Mexico City native forgot about the money,
became a U.S. citizen and raised a family in Hollister.

But now, at 81, he and thousands of other former Mexican "guest workers" who say
they were denied a portion of their wages want their money. At the very least,
they want their day in court.

"Is it live or die? No," Ortiz said Wednesday in Washington. "It's the
principle."

The Justice Department, in court papers, says the claim is too old and is trying
to get a federal judge to dismiss a class-action lawsuit alleging hundreds of
thousands of Mexicans who worked in America between 1942 and 1949 never received
money deducted from their wages.

Legislation introduced Wednesday in Congress would prevent the government from
having the suit dismissed on procedural grounds.

Ortiz was one of nearly 5 million Mexican guest workers recruited to the United
States between 1942 and 1964 to harvest crops and maintain railroad tracks. The
bracero program -- the name was taken from the Spanish for "arm" -- was launched
during World War II to help fill jobs left vacant by U.S. workers called to
fight.

In an unusual agreement between the U.S. and Mexican governments, the braceros
had 10 percent of their wages deducted and sent, via Wells Fargo, to Mexican
banks to serve as savings accounts. The agreement was supposed to serve as an
incentive for the workers to return to Mexico once their contracts expired.

Ortiz said he tried unsuccessfully to get his money.

"I went back to Mexico City to the government office to see about my 10
percent," Ortiz recalled Wednesday. "They said, 'What are you talking about? Get
out of here.' "

About 200 former braceros and their families rallied Wednesday in downtown Los
Angeles in support of the bill. Among them was Alfonso Ortega, 85, a migrant
worker from 1942 through 1950 who was paid 60 cents an hour.

"I believe I have the right to the money," Ortega said through a translator.

Joaquin De Luna, 82, said U.S. officials didn't let him return to his wife and
children in Mexico when he decided he didn't like the impoverished conditions.

"I didn't want to pick their lettuce," he said through a translator.

De Luna said he doesn't believe he'll get back the 10 percent, but added, "If
this country has any shame, it would give it back with interest and credit."

The lawsuit, filed last year in San Francisco, is against the U.S. and Mexican
governments, along with four banks. Although the pay was as low as 30 cents an
hour, advocates for the braceros say at least $500 million is owed, including
interest.

The suit is patterned after successful claims by Holocaust survivors against
Swiss banks and German companies.

The Mexican government says U.S. courts have no jurisdiction in the matter.
Wells Fargo spokesman Larry Haeg said a review of company records indicates it
transferred all the money it received. A hearing is scheduled in U.S. District
Court in San Francisco in early August.

Bill Lann Lee, former assistant attorney general for civil rights in the Clinton
administration, said the Justice Department supported extending the statute of
limitations in a lawsuit by black farmers alleging discrimination by the
Agriculture Department.

"We think justice would be served by having the case heard on its merits," said
Lee, whose San Francisco law firm represents the braceros.

The legislation, by co-authors Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., and Rep. Sam Farr,
D-Salinas, would prevent the Justice Department from using the passage of time
and sovereign immunity to block the claims.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        June 24, 2002 Monday MO1 EDITION

Layoffs at Sun prompt inquiry over work visas;
SOME SAY FIRM FAVORS FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: Jennifer Bjorhus Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words


The Justice Department is investigating whether Sun Microsystems has
discriminated against U.S. citizens in favor of foreign workers here on
temporary H-1B work visas.

The investigation was prompted by a complaint in April by a laid-off Sun
engineer, Guy Santiglia of Santa Clara. Santiglia, 36, lost his job when Sun
laid off 3,900 in October. The Santa Clara company makes Unix-based servers that
run corporate computer networks and Web sites.

The continued use of the H-1B visa program during one of the tech industry's
most severe downturns, when thousands of people have lost their jobs, has
heightened renewed criticism of the program. It is a hot-button issue with many
U.S. engineers who fear the country is giving away its tech jobs.

Santiglia told the Justice Department that Sun discriminated against U.S.
citizens during its layoffs and in its hiring since then. In an interview, he
said he thinks the company favors H-1B visa holders and suspects those workers
may be paid less and may be more pliable.

Sun, he alleged, is not directly replacing U.S. citizens with foreign workers,
but has shown a pattern of preferential treatment for H-1B employees.

Santiglia said the U.S. Department of Justice's civil rights division in
Washington, D.C., "has asked for the citizenship status of every Sun
Microsystems employee before and after the layoffs."

Both the Labor Department and Justice Department said they cannot confirm or
deny the existence of an investigation.

Sun acknowledged that the Labor and Justice departments have asked for records
in response to Santiglia's allegations but would not elaborate on the scope of
inquiry.

"Sun is cooperating closely with both departments and is responding in a timely
manner to the departments' requests for documents pertaining to Mr. Santiglia's
complaints," said Diane Carlini, a company representative, in an e-mail. She
would not elaborate on the nature of the Justice Department's request.

Carlini said Sun's layoffs in November "were driven by business needs going
forward, employee skills and performance. Foreign national status was not a
factor in the selection."

That is not how Santiglia and at least three other laid-off Sun employees see
it.

"There's people complaining from all over Sun, from New Hampshire to Colorado,
that the H-1Bs did not get laid off from their groups," Santiglia said.

The government issues H-1B work visas, which are good for six years, under a
special program intended to help companies out with extra workers when there are
not enough qualified U.S. workers to fill the jobs.

The program is very popular in the technology industry, which fought to increase
the number of H-1B visas that can be issued each year. They use the visas to
import computer engineers, many from India and China, as well as other
professionals.

The Justice Department evaluates complaints about the H-1B visa program for
violations of the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act. That law prohibits
companies from discriminating against workers on the basis of their citizenship
status. Under certain circumstances, it could be illegal to replace a U.S.
citizen with an H-1B visa holder who has equal or lesser qualifications. The
U.S. Department of Labor, however, says its rules say nothing about giving
preference to U.S. workers during a layoff.

"There's nothing that says that when they get to a point where they need to
downsize that H-1Bs go first," said a labor official who asked not to be
identified.

Heidi Wilson, Sun's corporate immigration manager, estimated that fewer than 5
percent of its 39,000-person workforce are on H-1B visas. Sun has done nothing
wrong, she said.

Foreigners on H-1B visas were among the 3,900 people Sun laid off last fall,
Wilson said. She said the company did not track how many H-1B visa holders were
laid off because it does not consider visa status during layoffs.

Wilson acknowledged that, since those layoffs, Sun has applied to the U.S.
Department of Labor for several H-1B visas. But the company has done "very
limited" hiring, she said, and had hired "maybe a few" people on H-1B visas
since then.

"The only time we look at filling these positions with foreign nationals is when
there's a critical skill we need, and we can't find someone," Wilson said. Unix
engineers are an example of a critical skill, she said.

Santiglia, who holds a degree in electrical engineering from Montana State
University, said it seems unfair to him that U.S. citizens were not given some
kind of preference in the layoffs.

"They should have made some effort to transfer people so that we don't have
Americans on welfare," said Santiglia. When he lost his job, he said, he and his
wife were forced to move to a cheaper apartment. He said has been collecting
$230 a month in unemployment insurance and feels betrayed.

Santiglia said he was an IR Systems Technologist troubleshooting hardware and
connection problems until Sun laid him off Oct. 30. The group of 26 people he
worked for in the company's IT operations division was responsible for
maintaining the network of computers on the company's Santa Clara campus.

He said several people in his work group were on H-1B visas, but all four of the
people laid off from his group are U.S. citizens.

Santiglia said Sun has since applied for three H-1B visas for his old job title.

"I've paid my taxes since my first dishwashing job at age 16. I registered for
the draft at 18. I've always loved this country. When I found out the law
doesn't really protect my job, I couldn't believe it," Santiglia said in an
e-mail.

Sun insisted it was not backfilling any positions and said it could not confirm
how many people on H-1B visas worked in Santiglia's group.

According to the U.S. Department of Labor, which administers the H-1B program,
there are no rules in the program protecting U.S. workers during a layoff. Only
those companies who are considered "H-1B dependent" -- where 15 percent or more
of their workforce is on H-1B visas -- are required to sign a form saying that
hiring an H-1B worker will not displace a U.S. employee. That is a small
fraction of the companies using the program.

Contact Jennifer Bjorhus at jbjorhus@sjmercury.com or (408) 920-5660.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 347 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 13, 2002 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Layoffs cloud status of H-1B visa holders

BYLINE: Margaret Steen Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 681 words


For most workers, a layoff brings financial insecurity and career worries. But
for foreign workers in the United States on H-1B visas, being laid off means
even more upheaval.

Workers on H-1B visas, which allow professional workers from other countries to
work in the United States for up to six years, face complicated questions about
their future if they're laid off. None of the workers I spoke with wanted their
names in the newspaper, for fear of attracting the attention of government
authorities. But two immigration attorneys, Anja Freudenthal of San Francisco
and Cary Pham of San Jose, helped me sort out the answers to some common
questions.

Q When companies lay off workers, do they have to let H-1B workers go first?

A There's no law that specifically says H-1B workers must be let go before U.S.
citizens and permanent residents, and many companies say they don't consider
visa status when they're deciding who gets laid off and who stays.

The way the visa program works, however, suggests that all other things being
equal, in some cases companies should let the H-1B visa workers go first. Some
applications for H-1B visas require the employer to say that it cannot find a
U.S. worker for the job. If the company lays off a U.S. worker doing exactly the
same job as an H-1B worker, it would no longer be true that the company couldn't
find a U.S. worker.

In practice, though, layoffs are not usually this simple. After managers
consider skills, performance and precise job descriptions, it's rare for them to
have to choose between two workers who are equal in every respect except their
visa status.

Q I'm here on an H-1B visa. What happens if I get laid off?

A This is a very complicated issue, and H-1B workers who have been laid off or
are about to be would be well advised to consult an immigration attorney. Here
are the basic outlines of the law:

You are officially "out of status" -- no longer legally allowed in the country
-- as soon as your employment ends. This means you need to leave the country in
a "reasonable" amount of time. How long is reasonable? The law doesn't say, but
one attorney I talked to said 30 days would probably be considered reasonable,
perhaps longer if you had complicated affairs to wrap up such as a house to
sell. Keep in mind, though, that if you were questioned about this -- for
example, if you applied for a green card sometime in the future and were asked
if you had maintained your status -- you would need to be able to show that you
were in fact making preparations to leave the country during this time.

If you find another job and want to get your visa transferred, you may be able
to do this if it's within 180 days of when your employment ended. You might have
to leave the country to process some of the paperwork.

If you remain in the country for more than 180 days while you're out of status,
you may be barred from the United States for three years. If you do so for
longer than a year, you may be barred for 10 years.

Q I'm here on an H-1B visa but also have a green card application in progress.
Now I've been laid off. What happens?

A In most cases, you're out of luck. Your green card application is attached to
the employer who filed the documents for you, and if you're no longer employed
there, your application ends.

There is one exception, based on a recent change to immigration law. If you're
in the final stage of a green card application, adjustment of status, and that
adjustment has been pending for 180 days or more, the application may continue
if you find a similar job with a new employer.

Q Are new H-1B visas still being approved?

A In order to get an H-1B visa, some employers have to certify to the Labor
Department that they can't find a U.S. worker willing and able to take the job.
With tens of thousands of people unemployed in Santa Clara County alone, that's
a more difficult assertion to make than it used to be. But attorneys say that
for certain specialized positions, companies are still asking for the visas, and
the visas are still being approved.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                     Copyright 2002 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
