
                               1 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Supreme Court's conclusions in Arizona ruling

BYLINE: Matt O'Brien, mobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; National

LENGTH: 294 words


In a 5-3 ruling, the Supreme Court on Monday struck down parts of Arizona's
tough immigration law, SB 1070, but upheld a key provision allowing police to
question and detain people if officers have stopped them and have "reasonable"
suspicion they are illegal immigrants.

Here's what the court concluded:

Arizona police cannot make warrantless arrests and jail immigrants just because
they believe they are deportable

Arizona cannot make it a state crime for illegal immigrants to seek work or be
in the state without carrying federal documentation

Arizona police can question and briefly detain illegal immigrants they stop and
contact federal agents if they have reasonable suspicions they are in the
country illegally.

Who voted in the majority: Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Anthony Kennedy and Sonia Sotomayor

Who dissented: Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas wanted all of Arizona's
law upheld; Samuel Alito wanted two of the three provisions blocked by the
majority

Not participating: Justice Elena Kagan recused herself; she was solicitor
general for the Obama administration when it sued Arizona over the law

Reactions

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-San Francisco: "I remain concerned that the sole
remaining provision -- the requirement that police check the immigration status
of a person they've otherwise stopped or arrested -- raises serious
constitutional concerns that will result in civil rights violations against
citizens and immigrants alike."

House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas: "I am disappointed by the Supreme
Court's decision. ... Today's ruling essentially puts an end to immigration
enforcement since the states no longer can step in and fill the void created by
the Obama administration."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Arizona immigration ruling sends mixed signals to other states and police

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; National

LENGTH: 868 words


Monday's Supreme Court ruling striking down much of Arizona's immigration law
sends mixed signals to politicians in California and elsewhere experimenting
with their own immigration legislation and to police officers who pull over
someone they suspect is in the country illegally.

"What the court made very clear is that if states or local governments try to
enact their own immigration laws, they cannot do that," said Bill Ong Hing,
professor at the University of San Francisco School of Law. "States cannot have
their own little enforcement plans."

But by upholding the provision in Arizona's SB 1070 that allows police officers
to probe the immigration status of the people they stop, some fear that police
officers will interpret the ruling as a license to question immigrants, not just
in Arizona but throughout the country.

"The part of it that troubles me the most is allowing what we call the 'papers
please' provision," said U.S. Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland. "I'm hoping that
doesn't open the doors to legally sanctioned racial profiling."

Some in law enforcement echoed those concerns.

"You're going to see increased attention on people who are Latino or who look
Latino," said San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón, a former police
chief in the Arizona city of Mesa. "Immigration laws are extremely complex and
the average police officer is not going to be an immigration expert."

In California, where 58 county governments and sheriffs take widely different
approaches to immigration politics, the ruling could send a message to police
officers that checking a person's nationality is OK.

"They've already had the discretion of inquiring (about immigration status),"
said San Diego immigration control activist Ted Hilton. "Now they can take it a
step further and detain someone."

The court ruled that mandatory checks do not interfere with the federal
government's immigration enforcement because "consultation between federal and
state officials is an important feature of the immigration system."

However, the court said it could revisit the provision once more information is
available about how it is working.

"There is a basic uncertainty about what the law means and how it will be
enforced," wrote Justice Anthony Kennedy in the majority opinion.

Hilton drafted a state ballot measure that would have copied parts of the
Arizona law, but the initiative -- backed by the American Legion -- has failed
to get enough signatures before the deadline later this week.

While some imagined a wave of state and local immigration crackdowns copying
Arizona's, the ruling could also encourage liberal states, such as California,
to pass laws taking a more lenient approach to illegal immigration, said Stephen
Yale-Loehr, a law professor at Cornell University.

San Francisco and Richmond are among several cities that issue city ID cards to
anyone who asks, allowing undocumented residents to have a form of
identification.

"I think those are safe. They're not attempts to regulate immigrants," Hing
said.

Chief Justice John Roberts joined Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer,
Anthony Kennedy and Sonia Sotomayor in striking down much of Arizona's
2-year-old law, including provisions that made it a state crime for illegal
immigrants to live and seek work in the state and allowed police to arrest them
without a warrant.

Many were expecting a tougher decision from the Supreme Court, said Tamar Jacoby
of employer advocacy group ImmigrationWorks USA. The ruling is unlikely to open
the floodgates to another wave of crackdowns copying Arizona's, but it is also
unlikely to inspire a wave of more lenient legislation, she said.

"This puts the burden back on the feds," Jacoby said. "It says there's not as
much room as some people have been hoping for state action."

Dissenting Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomasand Samuel Alito wanted to
uphold more provisions of the Arizona law.

The mood had already changed before the ruling as fewer lawmakers had been
introducing tough immigration laws as in years past, fearful that they would
scare off investors and workers, Jacoby said.

"You have cooler heads emerging in the states," Jacoby said.

California lawmakers can lead the nation by creating a "firewall" against racial
profiling and immigration crackdowns, said Angelica Salas of the Coalition for
Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. One bill by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano,
D-San Francisco, would limit local jailers from keeping illegal immigrants for
federal agents if the immigrants aren't safety threats.

"California is leading the way from a different perspective," she said.
"California's doing the right thing in recognizing immigrants are part of the
fabric of their communities."

But some of those measures could be nixed on the same arguments the Supreme
Court used to overturn most of the Arizona law.

Assemblyman Manuel Pérez, D-Indio, earlier this year introduced a bill that
would allow California to grant legal residency and work permits to undocumented
agricultural and service workers, though the lawmaker later put the bill on hold
to study it more. The court would likely view such a law as interfering with the
federal government's role in regulating immigration, Hing said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A marker on the road signifies the border line between the United
States and Mexico at the border crossing in San Ysidro, California in this
September 27, 2011 file photograph. The Supreme Court upheld a key part of
Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants on Monday, rejecting the Obama
administration's stance that only the U.S. government should enforce immigration
laws in the United States. ( REUTERS/Mike Blake/Files )
People protest against the Arizona immigration law in front of U.S. Supreme
Court in Washington June 25, 2012. (REUTERS/Yuri Gripas)
Members of Promise Arizona, Leonila Martinez, left, Patricia Rosas, and Gustavo
Cruz, right, react to the United States Supreme Court decision regarding
Arizona's controversial immigration law, SB1070, as the ruling comes down at the
Arizona Capitol Monday, June 25, 2012, in Phoenix. The Supreme Court struck down
key provisions of Arizona s crackdown on immigrants Monday but said a
much-debated portion on checking suspects status could go forward.Monday, June
25, 2012, in Phoenix.(AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin)
Demonstrators stand outside the Supreme Court in Washington, Monday, June 25,
2012. The Supreme Court is meeting Monday to issue opinions in some of the
handful of cases that remain unresolved. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
Rosa Maria Soto, right, and Maria Durand, both from Arizona, cheer as they react
to the United States Supreme Court decision regarding Arizona's controversial
immigration law, SB1070, comes down at the Arizona Capitol Monday, June 25,
2012, in Phoenix. The Supreme Court struck down key provisions of Arizona s
crackdown on immigrants Monday but said a much-debated portion on checking
suspects status could go forward. (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Arizona immigration ruling key points

BYLINE: By Matt OBrien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; National

LENGTH: 272 words


In a 5-3 ruling issued Monday, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down much of
Arizona's tough immigration law, SB 1070, but upheld a key provision allowing
officers to question people about their immigration status.

Here's what the court concluded:

Arizona police cannot make warrantless arrests and jail immigrants just because
officers believe they are deportable

Arizona cannot make it a state crime for illegal immigrants to seek work or to
be in the state without carrying federal documentation

Arizona police can briefly detain and question someone they've stopped and
contact federal agents if they have reasonable suspicion they are in the country
illegally

Voted in the majority: Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Ruth Bader
Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Anthony Kennedy and Sonia Sotomayor

Dissented: Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas would have upheld all of
Arizona's law; Samuel Alito wanted to sustain two of the three provisions the
majority rejected.

Not participating: Justice Elena Kagan recused herself.

Reactions:

"I remain concerned that the sole remaining provision -- the requirement that
police check the immigration status of a person they've otherwise stopped or
arrested -- raises serious constitutional concerns that will result in civil
rights violations against citizens and immigrants alike." -- U.S. Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, D-San Francisco

"I am disappointed by the Supreme Court's decision. ... Today's ruling
essentially puts an end to immigration enforcement since the states no longer
can step in and fill the void created by the Obama administration." -- U.S.
House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Mercury News editorial: Supreme Court ruling on Arizona 'papers, please'
provision doesn't constitute endorsement

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 487 words


The Supreme Court's decision Monday striking down most of Arizona's draconian
immigration law was a relief, even if one of the most unnerving aspects of the
law survived this round in court.

The justices ruled that most of the law infringed on the federal government's
jurisdiction over immigration enforcement, even if the feds have fumbled their
role badly. But the court upheld the most controversial provision, which allows
officers to demand immigration papers from anyone they've detained for other
reasons and suspect is undocumented. That revives the specter of driving while
Hispanic and being taken into custody as an excuse to check immigration status.

The ruling could embolden more states to adopt similar policies, as Alabama,
Georgia and others did after Arizona's law was passed in 2010. But the court's
decision to allow the "papers, please" provision does not appear to be an
endorsement of it. In their 5-3 ruling, the justices made clear that they'll be
monitoring enforcement of the law, which has yet to take effect, to ensure it
doesn't lead to racial profiling or other constitutional violations.

Writing for the majority, Justice Anthony Kennedy said it wouldn't be
appropriate for the court to rule on that part of the law "before the state
courts had an opportunity to construe it and without some showing that
enforcement of the provision in fact conflicts with federal immigration law and
its objectives."

He added, "This opinion does not foreclose other preemption and constitutional
challenges to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect."

It's hard to imagine how this law could be enforced without racial profiling,
which is why immigration advocates have been so worried about it -- and why they
were angered by Monday's ruling. What characteristics, after all, would lead a
police officer to suspect that a person had entered the country illegally? We
doubt many Canadians or Swedes will be asked to prove they're here legally. We
suspect that's why the court left the door open to further challenges.

The bulk of the decision affirmed the widely held view that it's the federal
government's responsibility to craft and enforce immigration law. The court said
Arizona can't make it a crime for undocumented immigrants to apply for a job or
to fail to carry immigration papers, and that it can't arrest people solely on
suspicion that they are in the country illegally.

All along, Arizona lawmakers argued that they passed this law because the feds
had failed in their responsibility. They're right about that; the U.S.
government has failed. But that's not a good enough reason for states to step
in, as the high court affirmed.

The ruling should be another jolt to Congress and President Barack Obama to get
serious about long-range immigration reform. Courts can't fix everything.
Humane, practical and fair solutions to the mess we have today can only come
from the Capitol.



LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ana Maria Archila from Make the Road New York speaks to reporters
during a news conference in New York, Monday, June 25, 2012. The Supreme Court
threw out key provisions of Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigrants Monday but
said a much-debated portion could go forward that police must check the status
of people stopped for various reasons who might appear to be in the U.S.
illegally. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Contra Costa Times editorial: High Court made correct decision on Arizona's law

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


Two things were made abundantly clear by Monday's U.S. Supreme Court decision
regarding Arizona's immigration law. First, it is time for Congress and the
president to get serious about long-term immigration policy. Second, the
responsibility for doing so is firmly in their hands.

The high court's rejection of much of the Arizona law is based on what we
believe is the correct notion that immigration policy must be a function of the
federal government, not individual states.

The court ruled that even if the federal government has done a poor job of
enacting and enforcing immigration policy -- and, in our view, it certainly has
-- it still has sole jurisdiction in that arena.

While the ruling may offer temporary comfort to those in the federal government
who opposed the Arizona law, that comfort may be short-lived. The court's
decision clearly places responsibility for sane immigration policy in the
federal domain. To us, the notion of a patchwork immigration policy was silly
and unworkable. It simply must be a national policy.

However, that means that Congress and the president must now set about to
establish reasonable and rational policy. Yes, we realize that there is an
election in November and that it is unlikely that anything productive will be
done before then, but this decision should set up a serious immigration showdown
soon after the election regardless of who is elected president and which party
controls Congress.

The part of the law that the Supreme Court upheld was, indeed, the most
controversial. It allows police officers to demand immigration papers from
anyone they've detained for other reasons and suspect is undocumented.

This was the hot button for most activists who opposed the law, arguing that
allowing police this much latitude would almost certainly lead to racial
profiling. It is a reasonable fear. But the court's upholding of that provision
was more on procedural grounds than on constitutional merit.

The high court reasoned that since the law has yet to be applied, there is no
evidence that it has been misapplied. The court said it planned to monitor use
of the law to ensure that there was no racial profiling or other constitutional
violations in its application.

In fact, in crafting the majority opinion, Justice Anthony Kennedy fired a
warning salvo to those who would use the law for such purposes.

"This opinion does not foreclose other pre-emption and constitutional challenges
to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect," Kennedy wrote.

In other words, the court would be willing to reconsider its ruling on this
element if it is provided widespread evidence of nefarious enforcement and
manipulation of the law.

We find it difficult to disagree with the court's ruling in this case. There is
little argument on either side of this thorny issue that the immigration policy
we have today is a jumbled mess and that there is a pressing need to address it
head-on. But at least with this decision, the nation's highest court has clearly
established who is to blame for the mess and who is responsible for fixing it.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Oakland Tribune editorial: High Court made correct decision on Arizona's law

BYLINE: Oakland Tribune editorial © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


Two things were made abundantly clear by Monday's U.S. Supreme Court decision
regarding Arizona's immigration law. First, it is time for Congress and the
president to get serious about long-term immigration policy. Second, the
responsibility for doing so is firmly in their hands.

The high court's rejection of much of the Arizona law is based on what we
believe is the correct notion that immigration policy must be a function of the
federal government, not individual states.

The court ruled that even if the federal government has done a poor job of
enacting and enforcing immigration policy -- and, in our view, it certainly has
-- it still has sole jurisdiction in that arena.

While the ruling may offer temporary comfort to those in the federal government
who opposed the Arizona law, that comfort may be short-lived. The court's
decision clearly places responsibility for sane immigration policy in the
federal domain. To us, the notion of a patchwork immigration policy was silly
and unworkable. It simply must be a national policy.

However, that means that Congress and the president must now set about to
establish reasonable and rational policy. Yes, we realize that there is an
election in November and that it is unlikely that anything productive will be
done before then, but this decision should set up a serious immigration showdown
soon after the election regardless of who is elected president and which party
controls Congress.

The part of the law that the Supreme Court upheld was, indeed, the most
controversial. It allows police officers to demand immigration papers from
anyone they've detained for other reasons and suspect is undocumented.

This was the hot button for most activists who opposed the law, arguing that
allowing police this much latitude would almost certainly lead to racial
profiling. It is a reasonable fear. But the court's upholding of that provision
was more on procedural grounds than on constitutional merit.

The high court reasoned that since the law has yet to be applied, there is no
evidence that it has been misapplied. The court said it planned to monitor use
of the law to ensure that there was no racial profiling or other constitutional
violations in its application.

In fact, in crafting the majority opinion, Justice Anthony Kennedy fired a
warning salvo to those who would use the law for such purposes.

"This opinion does not foreclose other pre-emption and constitutional challenges
to the law as interpreted and applied after it goes into effect," Kennedy wrote.

In other words, the court would be willing to reconsider its ruling on this
element if it is provided widespread evidence of nefarious enforcement and
manipulation of the law.

We find it difficult to disagree with the court's ruling in this case. There is
little argument on either side of this thorny issue that the immigration policy
we have today is a jumbled mess and that there is a pressing need to address it
head-on. But at least with this decision, the nation's highest court has clearly
established who is to blame for the mess and who is responsible for fixing it.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

DMV position on driver's licenses for young illegal immigrants

BYLINE: bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 204 words


California's Department of Motor Vehicles has clarified its policy on issuing
driver licenses to young illegal immigrants who may be able to obtain work
permits under a new federal deportation relief program.

The agency last week said it would grant licenses but backtracked on Monday and
finally in the afternoon said legislation or a new regulation might be needed to
grant the licenses.

Here is the DMV statement:

"Following is an updated statement regarding the impact (of) the Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals program as it pertains to the issue of Driver Licenses
and ID Cards in California:

"As the DMV initially stated, it appears that young people who receive federal
deferrals will be eligible for California driver's licenses, but it remains
uncertain whether clarifying legislation or regulations will be necessary. This
is because under current state regulations, only certain types of federal
immigration documents support the issuance of a California driver's license.
Further state legislative or regulatory clarification may be needed if the
federal government's new deferral program results in the issuance of new or
different immigration documents."

Mike Marando

Deputy Director/Public Affairs

California DMV

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday

Driver's licenses for some illegal immigrants flares into burning question

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 840 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/22/2012, pg. 2A)
Because of an editing error, a story about the Department of Motor Vehicles'
position on granting driver's licenses to young illegal immigrants incorrectly
referred to a work visa as the document the state may recognize. The eligible
applicants will have work permits.

The state Department of Motor Vehicles is waffling on whether it will issue
driver's licenses to young illegal immigrants who qualify for an Obama
administration deportation reprieve.

Late Monday afternoon, the agency seemed to take a middle course between its
statement last week that it would issue drivers licenses and one early Monday
that it was "not absolutely certain" licenses could be issued.

The DMV position was: "It appears that young people who receive federal
deferrals will be eligible for California driver's licenses, but it remains
uncertain whether clarifying legislation or regulations will be necessary."

What that means, said Mike Marando, a top spokesman for the agency, is that if
the work permit the federal government issues to immigrants under the
deportation-relief program is new or different from the current one, state
legislation might be necessary for it to be a valid form of identification for
obtaining a driver's license.

On Wednesday, the first day of a federal program that set aside the deportation
threat and grants work permits for qualifying young illegal immigrants -- some
400,000 in California alone -- the DMV said those who have work permits can
apply for California driver's licenses.

"Do they qualify for a driver's license? The answer is yes," said Marando,
deputy director of communications for the state agency, on Wednesday night.

Then, the agency backtracked Monday morning: "The implications of the federal
government's decision are not completely clear because they only started
accepting applications," Marando said in an e-mailed statement.

Advocates on both sides of the politically charged illegal immigration debate
are demanding answers soon from Gov. Jerry Brown and the DMV.

"There's a way to solve it. The governor, I think, has the power to do that, but
he's been silent so far," said Lizbeth Mateo, an organizer for DreamActivist
California who is eligible for the new work permits.

The 27-year-old Los Angeles activist said driving is essential to get to most
jobs in California. She wants Brown to show the state to be "the leader in the
way undocumented youth should be treated."

On the other side is Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Hesperia, who says Brown
"should come out very clearly and explain why one of his agencies has decided to
just go rogue and hand out what was once one of the most secure documents in the
world."

Donnelly on Monday sent a formal inquiry demanding more information from the DMV
and warned that the license could become a "gateway ID" leading to other
benefits.

Fine print on every California license says it is "a license to drive a motor
vehicle; it does not establish eligibility for employment, voter registration,
or public benefits."

Still, Donnelly said it also "allows you to board a plane and do a whole lot of
other things, whether it says it on the back or not."

Another state legislator said he will soon introduce legislation to grant the
licenses if necessary.

"We've been preparing to do that," said Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles,
after talking with DMV officials. He has sought to give driver's licenses to all
Californians regardless of immigration status for more than 15 years

Since 1993, California has required proof of legal U.S. residency to get a
license, but it remains unclear whether state officials will interpret the Obama
administration work permits as proof of temporary U.S. residency.

DMV officials said they have long accepted as proof of legal presence a
temporary "employment authorization card" issued to some immigrants.

Virginia has already said it will issue licenses to those who get deferred
action, according to an Aug. 7 letter from its DMV commissioner to the American
Civil Liberties Union.

Arizona and Nebraska announced that they will refuse to grant any state
benefits, including driver's licenses to young illegal immigrants getting
federal work permits, and Texas Gov. Rick Perry's office said Monday that the
federal program does not affect the state's requirement that Texans prove legal
residency before obtaining a license, according to the Texas Tribune.

The Department of Homeland Security last week began accepting "deferred action"
applications from 16- to 30-year-old immigrants who meet certain criteria, but
left it for states to determine whether to grant other benefits.

"DHS doesn't comment on state-specific matters," said spokesman Peter Boogaard.

Among the other documents already accepted to obtain a California driver's
license are U.S. birth certificates, passports or permanent resident cards,
Canadian passports or birth certificates, American Indian cards, Northern
Mariana cards, refugee travel documents and an immigration judge's order
granting political asylum.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Itzel Guillen, left, sorts out some of the documents she needs to apply
for a work permit along with Lucero Maganda, right, at her home Wednesday, Aug.
15, 2012, in San Diego. Guillen and Maganda are among those hoping for the right
to work legally in America without being deported. The Obama Administration s
Dream Act," or the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, could expand the
rights of more than 1 million young illegal immigrants. (AP Photo/Gregory Bull)
Local immigrants, who wanted use only their first names (L to R) Nelson, Grecia
and Claudia who plan to apply for the "deferred action" program, stand together
after speaking in a news conference at the Catholic Charities of Santa Clara
County headquarters in San Jose, Calif. on Aug. 15, 2012. The three immigrants
worn graduation gowns to symbolize their education and career aspirations. Amid
warnings that it is not a permanent solution, the federal government launched an
immigration relief initiative Wednesday for more than 1.5 million young illegal
immigrants who could seek work permits and protection from deportation. (Dai
Sugano/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 31, 2012 Friday

Immigrant driver license bill goes to Gov. Brown

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; News

LENGTH: 508 words


After a late-night debate Thursday, the Legislature is handing to Gov. Jerry
Brown a bill to grant driver's licenses to young illegal immigrants granted
temporary work permits by the federal government.

The Assembly on Thursday night passed AB 2189 in a 55-21 vote after the Senate
approved the bill in a 25-7 vote Wednesday, adding to the more than 230 bills
that at mid-day Friday were on the governor's desk on the Legislature's final
day of its yearly session.

The passage marked a partial victory for outgoing Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los
Angeles, who has sought for years to grant driver licenses to all California
drivers regardless of their immigration status.

Also being debated Friday was a measure that would have the state ask federal
authorities not to deport law-abiding, tax-paying illegal immigrants.

The current driver license bill, originally sponsored by Assemblywoman Nancy
Skinner, D-Berkeley, is more limited than Cedillo's earlier attempts, granting
the licenses to immigrants 30 years or younger brought to the United States
illegally as children who are obtaining 2-year work permits and protection from
deportation from a new Obama administration relief program that began Aug. 15.
The requirements for the federal "deferred action" include graduating from high
school or being in school and having a record free of serious crimes.

"It really is about public safety," Cedillo said Thursday night, arguing that
everyone driving on California roads should be licensed and insured.

Democrats easily passed the bill with a few Republican supporters in each house,
but were angered when Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Twin Peaks, alluded to the
9/11 hijackers in his floor speech and said some of the driver's licenses could
be used as "gateway identification" for nefarious purposes.

Between 300,000 and 400,000 people in California are expected to be eligible for
the federal relief.

The state Department of Motor Vehicles originally said it could grant all of
them driver's licenses, but later backtracked and said the state might need
"clarifying" legislation specifically defining the federal work permits as one
of the documents that can be used to obtain a license.

Also being debated in the Legislature's final hours was a last-minute bill, SB
901, to request federal not deport illegal immigrants in California's if they
come forward to the state, pay income taxes, know English, have no felony
convictions and have lived in the state since at least 2008.

One immigration law expert said the bill written by Assemblyman Felipe Fuentes,
D-Sylmar, if passed, could have consequences its Democratic proponents didn't
intend.

"I like the theory, but I worry that if individuals are asked to divulge their
status to (Immigration and Customs Enforcement), the discretion might be
denied," said Bill Hing, a law professor at the University of San Francisco. "It
might expose someone to deportation."

The Assembly voted 42-29 to pass it on Friday afternoon and the state Senate was
expected to vote on Friday night before the midnight deadline.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday

John Horgan: State's adult illegal immigrants are an Obamacare challenge

BYLINE: By John Horgan San Mateo County Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 400 words


A year from now, the state of California will face a dilemma. That's when
decisions about medical insurance coverage under the new Affordable Care Act
will have to be considered for the first time.

Under the federal law, also known as Obamacare (which goes into full effect Jan.
1, 2014), all legal adult residents will have the responsibility to buy medical
insurance, regardless of personal health condition, age, etc.

The stated aim is to cover everyone, well, almost everyone. And therein lies the
state's problem. The legislation specifically forbids illegal immigrants from
taking part in the insurance program.

And that really complicates things here. The Public Policy Institute of
California estimates that 90 percent of the illegals in this state are adults,
or about 2.4 million individuals out of the total of 28 million adults, or
nearly one in every 11 of those age 18 and older.

They will be unable to buy medical insurance unless they already have coverage
through an employer.

That will put a distinct crimp in California's efforts to control health
care/insurance costs. San Mateo County authorities have indicated that, for now,
they are anticipating that the new law will have a neutral impact on their big
and growing public health care budget. That's too bad because we have been told
that the dramatic changes to come soon would be beneficial for such operations.

Still, we're going to have to wait to see how this all plays out. But don't be
shocked if there are some expensive and unintended consequences due to the
mandate, both here in the county and in the state at-large.

Save the date

The 23rd Peninsula Sports Hall of Fame induction banquet will be held June 11,
2013, at the San Mateo County Event Center.

The affair, begun in 1989 by The Times as part of its centennial observance, is
presented by the San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention & Visitors Bureau.

Ten individuals will be added to the Hall of Fame during the ceremonies.
Currently, more than 220 local sports luminaries are members of the Hall of
Fame, which is located at the San Mateo County History Museum in downtown
Redwood City.

The summertime induction dinner has been conducted in concert with the San Mateo
County Fair since 2011.

John Horgan's column appears on Thursday. Follow him on Facebook and email him
atjohnhorganmedia@gmail.com or reach him by regular mail at P.O. Box 117083,
Burlingame, CA 94011.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Human trafficking's global impact

BYLINE: By Katie Nelson Contra Costa Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Alameda County; News; Local

LENGTH: 345 words


Human trafficking is a global issue. Nearly every country faces cases of women,
men and children being exploited in some fashion. However, certain parts of the
world struggle more with preventing and dealing with human trafficking cases.

Countries with the highest rates of human trafficking

The National Human Trafficking Resource Center Hotline, based in the United
States, provides data on where cases of suspected human trafficking occur. Based
on the hotline's most recent data, countries with the highest rates of human
trafficking include Algeria, Cuba, Iran and North Korea. Countries displaying
serious signs of increasing numbers in human trafficking include Zimbabwe,
Vietnam, Thailand, Russia and China.

According to UNICEF, the number of child victims trafficked worldwide each year
for sexual exploitation or cheap labor is 1.2 million.

Human trafficking in Thailand

Thailand's relative prosperity attracts migrants from neighboring countries who
flee conditions of poverty and military repression. Significant illegal
migration to Thailand presents traffickers with opportunities to coerce
undocumented migrants or those living in poverty into involuntary servitude or
sexual exploitation.

Women and children are trafficked from Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, China and Russia
for commercial sexual exploitation in Thailand. Some women and girls from
Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam are trafficked through Thailand's southern border
to Malaysia for sexual exploitation. Ethnic minorities such as northern hill
tribe peoples who have not received legal residency or citizenship are at high
risk for trafficking internally and abroad.

The demand for sex drives the demand for child sex trafficking globally, while
poverty, domestic violence and abuse, discrimination and the desire for a better
life make children vulnerable. Children are especially vulnerable to being
trafficked because they are often less educated, easy to overpower and easy to
persuade that they must do what an adult tells them to do.

Source: U.S. State Department,www.polarisproject.org ,www.unicef.org

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 13, 2012 Friday

Illegal immigrants getting major review, new chance

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 932 words


In a policy change that Republicans call "backdoor amnesty," federal immigration
authorities in the Bay Area and across the nation are quietly dropping
deportation cases against illegal immigrants whose only offense is being here.

Between now and the middle of the summer, U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, known as ICE, says it will review some 300,000 pending deportation
cases nationwide.

It will focus on deporting immigrants with criminal histories and closing the
cases of students, veterans and other upstanding people unlawfully here but with
close family and community ties. In the first evidence of how the change is
playing out, immigration officials are dropping an estimated 10 to 15 percent of
the deportation cases on the dockets in Denver, as part of a pilot project to
see how the new policy would work. Authorities are also beginning to
administratively close some Bay Area cases, usually after the immigrant's lawyer
makes a request.

"It's happening every day, in all places around the country," said ICE
spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez.

The change comes as the immigration debate is likely to play a role in the
presidential race. While Latinos have expressed frustration at President Barack
Obama's record number of deportations, Republicans say the administration is not
doing enough and that the new policy undermines congressional authority.

ICE Director John Morton visited his agency's San Francisco branch office Oct.
31 to explain the new enforcement guidelines to the agents and federal lawyers
of the Northern California region.

The Obama administration has argued that its new approach, announced in a June
memo, is a smarter way of enforcing immigration laws.

The government has the funding to deport 400,000 people a year, and nearly
reached that record last year, but trying to arrest and expel the country's
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants would be costly and nearly impossible.

Before detaining or deporting an illegal immigrant, federal agents are now
supposed to more carefully evaluate if the person is a priority, such as a
criminal or someone who repeatedly violates civil immigration laws or who tried
to game the system.

Federal immigration lawyers are supposed to begin culling low-priority
deportations from the thousands of backlogged cases and asking judges to close
them.

The underlying message, according to lawyers briefed in November: Significant
changes are afoot.

"They don't want to be on the record saying they are massively reviewing cases,"
said Camiel Becker, a San Francisco lawyer who attended the briefing by the
region's top ICE lawyer and field director.

Administrative closure of a deportation case is not a path to citizenship, but
some whose cases are closed will be able to get work permits.

Immigration officers always had discretionary power to grant reprieves based on
special circumstances, Becker said.

"They took the position that nothing's changed, this power has already existed."

In truth, Becker said, a major shift is under way. Never before has ICE been
instructed to use its discretion so broadly.

"We're just starting to see how this is going to play out," said another Bay
Area lawyer, Zachary Nightingale. Immigration authorities are considering only
"the cleanest of cases," he said.

A two-month pilot program that began late last year in Denver and Baltimore
ended Friday.

The government essentially halted immigration court schedules and had judges in
those cities review every pending case to dismiss the low-priority ones. Based
on anecdotal evidence, judges are closing about 10 to 15 percent of Denver's
7,800 cases, according to Denver lawyer Laura Lichter, president-elect of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Until recently, deportation reprieves would typically arrive at the last minute
and only after political intervention or a public outcry.

Daly City resident Jose Librojo was granted a last-minute reprieve after packing
his bags in November. A Bay Area resident since he was 15, the 31-year-old
Filipino dental assistant and a few dozen friends arrived for his scheduled Nov.
12 deportation flight.

Only after he reached the airport did he learn that his deportation to the
Philippines was delayed for two weeks. The delay later was extended
indefinitely.

Librojo said he fits the prosecutorial discretion criteria: He has a clean
record, his family brought him here before he was old enough to make a choice,
and he has a U.S. education, a legal resident wife, and good work and community
credentials.

Still, he thinks his reprieve was an exception and had more to do with U.S. Sen.
Dick Durbin, D-Ill., calling his deportation an example of "broken immigration
laws" because Librojo has been a stellar employee and has lived in the U.S. for
most of his life without any trouble.

"They keep on detaining a lot of students like me that probably didn't commit a
crime," Librojo said. "I don't think they're enforcing the prosecutorial
discretion."

Highly charged immigration politics have slowed the changeover.

Republicans proposed a bill to stop it, the HALT Act, or "Hinder the
Administration's Legalization Temptation," but it has gained little ground since
August.

Also criticizing the policy is the immigration agents' labor union, the National
ICE Union, which argued in a written statement Tuesday that "some of the worst
criminals encountered by ICE will go free due to loopholes in the policy."

The statement does not say how that would happen, and the union has not
responded to numerous requests for comment.

Matt O'Brien covers demographics and immigration. Contact him at 925-977-8463.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Mercury News editorial: Enforcement-only approach to immigration has made
problems worse

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 517 words


U.S. Rep Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, always has worked for comprehensive
immigration reform. But at a House hearing Wednesday in Washington, she offered
a particularly compelling argument against the enforcement-only approach some
are promoting: It has actually made the nation's immigration problems worse.

Lofgren was speaking to the subcommittee on immigration about a proposal by Rep.
Lamar Smith, R-Texas, to make the E-Verify system mandatory. Employers use
E-Verify to check the legal status of job applicants, but as Lofgren explained,
it simply does not work. In a Department of Homeland Security study, more than
half of the undocumented workers checked by the system were verified as eligible
to work here. Why? Because the way Congress created E-Verify left it open to
fraud.

In 1986, Congress made it illegal to employ undocumented immigrants, requiring
employers to ask for paperwork to verify their eligibility -- and creating a
booming market for fake Social Security cards.

Then, in 1996, Congress created E-Verify, which is supposed to accept only
legitimate Social Security numbers. All that did was cause an explosion in
identity theft. Making E-Verify mandatory would only worsen this problem.

Some employers rely on immigrant labor by choice, but many because they can't
find citizens to do hard work on farms and the like. The availability of this
work will continue to encourage people to cross the border and to remain here.

"Our system is fundamentally broken," Lofgren told her colleagues. "For decades,
it has failed to provide legal pathways for American industries, like
agriculture, to meet their labor needs. If we now tighten the enforcement screws
yet again, without fixing the system, we are just going to drive a new and more
pernicious form of fraud. That's the lesson we must heed from history."

Lofgren also worries that Smith's proposal would lead to more off-the-books
employment. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that making E-Verify
mandatory would cost $17.3 billion in lost tax revenue over 10 years, as more
workers take to the underground economy.

The system could cost the federal government $1 billion to operate and small
businesses $2.6 billion to use. It would put farmers out of business.

And remember, it doesn't even work.

Mandatory E-Verify doesn't appear to have the votes to pass in this Congress.
But neither does real reform, largely because anything smacking of amnesty is
politically toxic. That is hurting employers, and it's a costly nightmare for
the Department of Homeland Security, which is supposed to enforce a system that
-- did we mention it doesn't work?

We're disappointed that President Barack Obama has failed to live up to his
campaign promise to tackle immigration reform. He has barely pressed on even
minimally controversial, business-friendly proposals, such as making it easier
for the smartest students from overseas to remain here to start their careers.

Perhaps after this election, reform will be possible. In the meantime, the least
Congress can do, as Lofgren says, is avoid making things worse with horrors like
E-Verify.



LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ** CAPTION CORRECTION, CORRECTS SPELLING OF IMMIGRATION IN OBJECT NAME
** Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers arrest a suspect during a
pre-dawn raid in Santa Ana, Calif., Wednesday, Jan. 17, 2007.The week-long
series of raids targeting five counties in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan
area resulted in the arrest of 338 illegal immigrants at their homes, while
another 423 were taken into ICE custody at county jails, said Virginia Kice,
spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. (AP Photo/Mark Avery)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

California immigration plan to legalize workers faces hurdles

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1297 words


In the past two years, Arizona and five other red states made national waves and
raised constitutional questions by passing laws designed to crack down on
illegal immigration. Now, lawmakers in the biggest blue state are poised to
focus the immigration spotlight in another direction.

A bill quietly moving through California's Legislature would grant state work
permits to tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who are already harvesting
fields, cleaning offices and preparing fast-food.

Frustrated that comprehensive immigration reform is a non-starter in Congress,
proponents say the bill would allow California to solve a problem worsened by
federal inaction.

"We believe we can become the model," said Manuel Pérez, a Democratic Assembly
member who represents the Coachella and Imperial valleys. "The state of
California, up until this point, really has been silent on this issue."

Pérez's bill, AB1544, which has already cleared a key Assembly committee, comes
as the U.S. Supreme Court deliberates the constitutionality of Arizona's
2-year-old immigration law, which directs local police and sheriffs to enforce
U.S. immigration laws.

During recent oral arguments, the court's conservative majority sent out strong
signals that it may support key elements of the Arizona law.

"If the Supreme Court says states can make some of their own policies -- if it
upholds that -- I would expect you would see not just the enforcement stuff, but
this kind of law as well," UC Davis economist Phil Martin, who studies
agriculture and immigration, said referring to AB1544.

Many states are likely to follow Arizona's tough approach, which was partially
inspired by California's voter-approved Proposition 187 in 1994. The law, which
would have kicked undocumented children out of school and denied their parents
most public benefits, was overturned by the courts because California was seen
as usurping the federal government's immigration authority.

But some states could also use a states'-rights argument to push their states to
the left on immigration.

The California bill is being opposed by suburban Republicans but buoyed by a
tenuous alliance between liberal Democrats and conservative rural business
interests.

Bipartisan cooperation would strengthen the message, but California Democrats
don't need Republican support to pass the bill, Pérez said.

Not long after Pérez and a conservative Central Valley Republican announced in a
joint statement that they were "tired of waiting for a federal solution" and
were introducing the bill together, the Republican, Assemblywoman Linda
Halderman of Fresno, erased her name from the legislation over objections she
has not publicly explained.

"The reality is we've gotten a little bit off track," said Barry Bedwell,
president of the California Grape and Tree Fruit League, which represents
farmers and still backs the bill. "We're now trying to really get back into
focus."

California's farmers and farmworkers and the politicians who represent them have
long battled one another over labor issues, but they agree on one thing: The
state's $37.5 billion agriculture industry is heavily dependent on illegal
immigrants. By many accounts, at least half and perhaps more than three-quarters
of California's farm workforce is undocumented.

"That puts everybody in a bad place," said David Puglia, vice president of the
Western Growers Association.

Pérez said his legislation was sparked by a round-table conversation with
farmers in his border district. Under his bill, illegal immigrants who pay a
state fee and prove they are trying to become proficient in English and that
they have been working in California for at least 150 days would be able to get
a permit authorizing them to live and work in the state.

"We're not importing folks from Latin America or Mexico," Pérez said. "We're
talking about workers who have been here now for a period of years, who have
raised their families here already."

But critics say state lawmakers have no business trying to tinker with the
federal immigration system.

"We want to stick to the rule of law," said Assemblyman Mike Morrell, R-Rancho
Cucamonga, the lone dissenter when the Assembly Labor and Employment Committee
voted 4-1 last month to move the bill forward.

Farm employers are split on the measure.

Already burned by Arizona's legislation, which has hurt its members there,
Western Growers hasn't taken a position on the California bill, although Puglia
said he understands where Pérez is coming from.

"Congress needs to get off its rear and do something," Puglia said.

California lawmakers are not the first to try to legalize undocumented workers.
Utah passed legislation in March 2011 that would legalize some immigrant workers
if the Department of Homeland Security granted a waiver -- which it never did.
The California legislation would require the same waiver.

Oklahoma state Sen. Harry Coates, a Republican, introduced a similar bill in
December after a state crackdown forced many illegal immigrant workers south to
Texas, hurting Oklahoma's construction industry.

But Coates said his bill is not getting anywhere because immigration is too
toxic in an election year.

"My colleagues don't want to touch a hot potato like this," Coates said. "Every
state's just trying to fend for themselves."

Pérez may have more luck in California, but the legislation could be merely
symbolic if the federal government refuses to authorize the plan.

Still, even a new law blocked by the federal government could force the country
into a larger discussion.

"I think," Puglia said, "this is about shining as many bright lights as possible
on the stagnation that surrounds the immigration debate in Congress."

California immigration bill

The bill: AB 1544, the California Agricultural Jobs and Industry Stabilization
Program
Author: Assemblyman Manuel Pérez, D-Indio
What it would do: Grant legal work and residency permits to illegal immigrants
in California who work in the agricultural or service industries and meet
specified criteria, such as a commitment to learning English. The bill would
require federal authorization before it's implemented. It would also require a
state report showing there are not enough legal residents to fill open farm and
service jobs.
Schedule: Introduced in January, passed through the Assembly Labor and
Employment Committee on a 4-1 vote in April; must be approved by an
appropriations committee before it reaches the Assembly floor.
Pro arguments: Regularizes a large workforce on which the California economy
already depends; reduces burdens on employers and creates a more humane system
for immigrants at risk of deportation.
Con arguments: Rewards lawbreakers who are in economic competition with legal
workers; conflicts with federal jurisdiction and creates a new bureaucracy; bill
goes too far by including the service industries, not just agriculture.


State immigration laws

Enforcement laws:

In the past two years, Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, South Carolina and
Utah have passed laws authorizing state powers and resources to combat illegal
immigration. Dozens of smaller immigration laws have been proposed or passed in
other states. After the Obama administration sued Arizona, arguing that
immigration policy is in the federal government's jurisdiction, the U.S. Supreme
Court is now reviewing the constitutionality of Arizona's law.

Softer approach:

In what was known as the "Utah solution," Utah in 2011 paired its enforcement
measures with the first state law to legalize its own undocumented immigrant
workers, but the law hinged on federal approval that was never granted. An
Oklahoma lawmaker introduced a similar bill in December. California's AB 1544,
inspired in part by the Utah bill, was introduced in January and sailed through
its first committee hearing last month.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A banner that reads, "Legalization Now! Immigration Reform, Good Jobs
and Education for All, " before the start of a May Day march in downtown Los
Angeles, California, on Tuesday, May 1, 2012. (Genaro Molina/Los Angeles
Times/MCT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday

Deportation review begins in Bay Area immigration court

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 556 words


The San Francisco immigration court partially closed Monday morning as a team of
federal lawyers pored over thousands of backlogged Bay Area deportation cases to
close those deemed low priority.

The two-week review in one of the nation's busiest immigration courts will
relieve some Bay Area residents who are here illegally but have strong community
ties and clean records.

But having their cases administratively closed -- set aside indefinitely -- also
will leave the illegal immigrants in limbo, allowing them to stay but not to
seek permanent legal residency. The review encompasses the state's coastal
counties from Monterey to the Oregon border.

"It's something that is kind of like a Damocles sword hanging over their heads,"
said private immigration lawyer Matthew Muller, whose San Francisco firm is
seeking what federal authorities call "prosecutorial discretion" for a few dozen
people.

"It's just a decision by the agency that you're not a priority right now," he
said. "In theory, they could certainly become a priority later."

A new U.S. president, for instance, could reverse the leniency. Republican
lawmakers have described the case closures as a "backdoor amnesty" encouraging
more illegal immigration.

The Obama administration announced last year that its immigration enforcers
would begin using more discretion, focusing resources on expelling criminals and
sparing some undocumented residents whose chief wrongdoing was coming here.

After the Obama administration deported a record 396,906 people last year -- and
a million since taking office -- the discretion policy is slowing deportations
but affects a minority of cases.

As of mid-April, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, said it had
reviewed 219,554 pending deportations and closed 2,722 of them -- roughly 1
percent.

It identified several thousand more -- about 7.5 percent of the total -- as
amenable to discretion.

The closed cases mostly involved longtime residents of the United States with an
American citizen family member and "compelling ties" to the country, according
to ICE. The second-largest group -- several hundred nationwide -- were children,
high school or college students or college graduates brought to the country as
youngsters.

With a few extraordinary exceptions, federal attorneys screening the Bay Area
cases this month are unlikely to grant relief to anyone without a near-perfect
record, Muller said.

"The cynical view is they're the people who would probably get relief anyhow,"
he said. "We're not expecting fireworks."

The Obama administration had case screenings in the Denver and Baltimore
immigration courts at the end of last year. The rolling reviews moved to
Detroit, New Orleans, Orlando, Seattle and New York City.

Then came San Francisco, where ICE attorneys will be weeding out low-priority
cases through June 15. The San Francisco court had more than 18,000 pending
cases as of last month.

Prosecutorial discretion -- first announced last June -- has not much reduced
the national backlog of more than 300,000 deportation cases, according to a
public records group at Syracuse University.

"The hope was this was going to speed the cases and bring down the backlog,"
said Susan Long, co-director of Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse. "We
haven't seen that, but maybe we're expecting too much in the short term."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 8, 2012 Friday

Illegal immigrant review finding few cases to set aside

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 617 words


As federal attorneys in San Francisco's busy immigration court prepare for their
second week of weeding out the least important deportation cases, Ulises Toledo
is among thousands in the Bay Area hoping to be deemed a low priority.

"I'm excited," Toledo said. "They're reviewing cases. Hopefully I'm one of those
they give a reprieve."

The deportation net swept up the 21-year-old Chabot College student in 2010
after he was stopped for driving without a front license plate.

His hopes may be thin: Fewer than 2 percent of the more than 232,000 cases
reviewed since November have been set aside under the Obama administration's new
policy of showing more discretion in pursuing immigration violators.

The figure is likely to be closer to 9 percent once the reviews are complete,
said authorities at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement who released the
statistics this week.

"It's not something that happens overnight," said ICE spokeswoman Gillian
Christensen.

Immigrant advocates say the policy has failed. They hoped many more undocumented
immigrants would be helped when the reviews were announced a year ago.
Republicans and other immigration control proponents believe the opposite: They
say that too many illegal immigrants are getting a pass.

Having a case set aside is not a path to citizenship. Administratively closing
low priority cases puts illegal immigrants in legal limbo -- they can stay but
not get green cards.

Closing low-priority cases helps immigration agents more quickly remove the
greatest threats to public safety, Christensen said.

The new approach, she said, is "dramatically changing the composition of the
immigration courts and helping to prevent future backlogs."

Most of the people getting reprieves are longtime U.S. residents with close
family and community ties and clean records, or students brought to the country
at a young age. Toledo, who came when he was 8 and is related to several U.S.
citizens, from his grandfather on down, believes he fits the bill.

ICE has been seeking to deport him to Mexico since Hayward police pulled him and
his girlfriend over one afternoon in 2010.

"Obviously I don't have a driver's license. I told him that," said Toledo, a
theater major at Chabot and a graduate of San Leandro High School.

Hayward police jailed him for several days, then took him to an Alameda County
jail, which handed him over to ICE. Such pickups have become more common since
2010 when all Bay Area counties joined the federal Secure Communities database,
which alerts immigration agents to every arrest.

The dragnet contributed to a record 396,906 deportations last year. Until
recently, ICE agents and attorneys rarely made distinctions among deportation
candidates, but that is changing.

Since the new focus on discretion, ICE has closed or dismissed 4,363 cases, just
under 2 percent of the total reviewed as of May 29.

Almost as many -- 3,998 people -- declined ICE's offer of prosecutorial
discretion, which can mean they are seeking to win their immigration case -- and
a chance at a green card and citizenship -- rather than have the case set aside
and live in limbo.

More than 12,000 were offered prosecutorial discretion but are either undergoing
a background check or haven't decided whether to accept. The total percentage
offered a reprieve is at 9 percent, according to the new statistics.

Some immigrant advocacy groups predict the number of cases actually closed will
not exceed 4 percent, not much higher than the number immigration judges
typically close each year.

The new policy began in November, and the case-by-case reviews accelerated on
Monday in the Bay Area when the San Francisco immigration court partially closed
for a 2-week scouring of cases.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where
he was pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and
placed into deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license
plate on Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its
second week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where he was
pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and placed into
deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license plate on
Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its second
week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where he was
pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and placed into
deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license plate on
Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its second
week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday

Thomas Sowell: The immigration ploy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


President Barack Obama's latest political ploy -- granting new "rights" out of
thin air, by executive order, to illegal immigrants who claim they were brought
into the country when they were children -- is all too typical of his short-run
approach to the country's long-run problems.

Whatever the merits or demerits of the Obama immigration policy, his executive
order is good only as long as he remains president, which may be only a matter
of months after this year's election.

People cannot plan their lives on the basis of laws that can suddenly appear,
and then suddenly disappear, in less than a year. To come forward today and
claim the protection of the Obama executive order is to declare publicly and
officially that your parents entered the country illegally. How that may be
viewed by some later administration is anybody's guess.

Employers likewise cannot rely on policies that may be here today and gone
tomorrow, whether these are temporary tax rates designed to look good at
election time or temporary immigration policies that can backfire later if
employers get accused of hiring illegal immigrants.

Why hire someone, and invest time and money in training them, if you may be
forced to fire them before a year has passed?

Kicking the can down the road is one of the favorite exercises in Washington.
But neither in the economy nor in their personal lives can people make plans and
commitments on the basis of government policies that suddenly appear and
suddenly disappear.

Like so many other Obama ploys, his immigration ploy is not meant to help the
country, but to help Obama. This is all about getting the Latino vote this
November.

The principle involved -- keeping children from being hurt by actions over which
they had no control -- is one already advanced by Sen. Marco Rubio, who may well
end up as Gov. Mitt Romney's vice presidential running mate. The Obama executive
order, which suddenly popped up like a rabbit out of a magician's hat, steals
some of Rubio's thunder, so it is clever politics.

But clever politics is what has gotten this country into so much trouble, not
only in regard to immigration but also in regard to the economy and the
dangerous international situation.

If Obama is re-elected, it is very unlikely that illegal immigrants will really
have to prove anything. The administration can simply choose not to enforce that
provision.

Whoever wants to come, and who has the chutzpah, will come. The fact that they
come across the Mexican border does not mean that they are all Mexicans. They
can just as easily be terrorists from the Middle East.

Only after the border is controlled can any immigration policy matter be
seriously considered, and options weighed through the normal constitutional
process of congressional hearings, debate and legislation, rather than by
presidential shortcuts.

Not only is border control fundamental, what is also fundamental is the
principle that immigration policy does not exist to accommodate foreigners but
to protect Americans -- and the American culture that has made this the world's
richest, freest and most powerful nation for more than a century.

No nation can absorb unlimited numbers of people from another culture without
jeopardizing its own culture. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, America
could absorb millions of immigrants. But the situation is different today, when
group separatism, resentment and polarization are promoted by both the education
system and politicians.

Thomas Sowell is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

Nation's first 'anti-Arizona' law likely headed to Gov. Jerry Brown's office

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; National; State

LENGTH: 993 words


California's Legislature is poised to become the first in the nation to pass an
"anti-Arizona" law instructing police to release illegal immigrants if they
haven't committed serious crimes -- instead of handing them over to the federal
government.

The law could put a Democratic state at odds with a Democratic president whose
administration has counted on local-federal law enforcement partnerships to find
and deport illegal immigrants with criminal records.

"We aren't usurping anything. It's a states' rights issue," said Assemblyman Tom
Ammiano, D-San Francisco, the sponsor of the bill that on Thursday passed the
state Senate 21-13.

California's push to the left on immigration policy comes less than two weeks
after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down parts of Arizona's strict immigration
law but upheld a key provision requiring Arizona police officers to check the
immigration status of the people they stop and reasonably suspect are in the
country illegally.

Ammiano's measure is also a reaction to a federal immigration enforcement
program, Secure Communities, forced upon all of California's counties two years
ago.

The Assembly approved the bill last year but must vote on it again in August
after the summer recess. But the big question is if the bill, AB1081, will be
signed or vetoed by Gov. Jerry Brown, who hasn't taken a position on the
legislation.

As attorney general, Brown signed the pact with the Obama administration
allowing federal immigration agents through the fingerprints-sharing Secure
Communities program to track down and pick up every deportable immigrant
arrested by local police in the state. It has resulted in more than 7,500
deportations from the Bay Area since 2010.

Ammiano's bill parallels an effort by the Santa Clara County Board of
Supervisors, which has pushed back against the program.

Supervisors last year said the county would detain illegal immigrants only if
the federal government paid for the cost to keep the inmates for an extra day or
two to give U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials time to pick them
up at the jail. ICE officials balked at the request, so now immigrants --
including those who have committed serious and violent felonies -- are released
to the community once they finish their sentences.

Lori Pegg, acting Santa Clara County counsel, said Ammiano's proposed
legislation "appears to be consistent" with the county's goal, which she said is
"to make sure that we are not inappropriately detaining individuals solely on
the basis of their immigration status."

Last year, the San Francisco Sheriff's Department said it would agree to detain
illegal immigrants arrested for misdemeanors, but only if they have a prior
felony or two misdemeanor convictions.

Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman, said the agency wouldn't comment on
California's pending legislation. But she defended the Secure Communities
program, saying it has proved to be the most valuable tool in allowing the
agency to focus on "criminal aliens" and those who repeatedly violate
immigration law.

But critics of the program say it's netting far too many non-criminals.

Ammiano's "Trust Act" would prohibit police and sheriff's departments from
holding immigrants if they are eligible for release from criminal custody unless
they have been convicted of a serious or violent felony.

It also requires local agencies to "adopt a plan" to guard against racial
profiling before complying with a federal immigration hold -- and also to guard
against mistakenly detaining U.S. citizens.

Police chiefs in Oakland, Palo Alto and elsewhere have backed the bill, but
sheriffs, who are responsible for county jails, have been less supportive. The
Assembly website lists dozens of supporters -- including cities, school
districts and numerous immigrant rights groups -- but just one opponent: the
California State Sheriffs' Association.

The Senate vote this week fell on partisan lines -- Democrats for, Republicans
against -- but one Democratic senator voted against the bill after speaking with
sheriffs in his Central Valley district.

"Why would we ask a sheriff's deputy in any of the 58 counties to make a
determination of what is a serious crime and what is not?" said state Sen.
Michael Rubio, D-Shafter. "Sheriffs would be put in a difficult position."

Sheriffs also oppose the mandate requiring local agencies to guard against
racial profiling and detaining U.S. citizens, said Curtis Hill, a former San
Benito County sheriff and lobbyist for the sheriffs' association.

"That's problematic for us because profiling is so subjective," Hill said. "That
sets up sheriffs and county general funds to get sued. We're going to get sued
based on federal immigration policy."

The California bill is unlikely to conflict with federal law as Arizona's did
because "even the federal government acknowledges these (immigration holds) are
'requests' ... so it's not as if they are refusing an order from the federal
government," said Aarti Kohli, a senior fellow at UC Berkeley's Warren Institute
on Law and Social Policy.

The bill flexes power that local and state governments already have, Kohli said.

Another immigration policy expert noted the California bill initially was a
reaction to Secure Communities but "has been reshaped as an antidote" to
Arizona's law.

"The Trust Act shows that different states want different policies in
immigration enforcement," said Kevin Johnson, dean of the UC Davis School of
Law. "It seems to me that we will have skirmishes like this until there is
comprehensive national immigration reform."

Staff writers Josh Richman and Tracy Seipel contributed to this report.

The

continued detention on an immigration hold would not violate any federal, state
or local law -- or any local policy.
It also would require any local government detaining a person on an immigration
hold to adopt a plan guarding against:
Detaining a U.S. citizen Racial profiling Discouraging crime victims and
witnesses from reporting crimes.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 13, 2012 Friday

San Mateo County admits mistakenly reporting arrested minors to ICE agents

BYLINE: By Bonnie Eslinger Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 721 words


Until early this year, San Mateo County reported the names of arrested minors
suspected of living illegally in the United States to federal immigration
authorities because it mistakenly enforced a law ruled unconstitutional nearly
20 years ago.

After being notified of its error in November, the county implemented a new
policy in March, said Stuart Forrest, chief of the county's probation
department, which oversees juvenile justice matters.

The new policy still gives juvenile probation officials broad discretion to
report youths, "guided by what best protects public safety and the best
interests of children."

And that galls immigrant advocates, who say the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) shouldn't be contacted at all when it comes to kids.

Supervisor Carole Groom, who sat on a subcommittee assigned to come up with a
new policy, said she was "shocked" to learn the county had been reporting all
arrested youths suspected of being undocumented.

"What we're trying to do is strike a balance between the public safety and the
best interests of the youth," Groom said. "Unless the youth presents a danger to
society, we would keep them here. Young people who commit a crime should stay in
their local community and either serve that time in the community or for
whatever action is taken."

Helen Beasley, an attorney with Community Legal Services in East Palo Alto, said
a coalition of advocates, including representatives from her office and the
Stanford Law School Immigrants Rights Clinic, contacted the county after hearing
from attorneys assigned to represent the youths that a high number of minors
were being reported to the federal immigration office. Last year, she said, her
office helped 35 reported youths avoid being deported.

A study of 2009 federal data revealed that San Mateo County had the second
highest number of immigration referrals in the state, with Orange County having
the most, she said.

"It was basically everybody being arrested," Beasley said. "They were booked
into juvenile hall and they were referred to ICE, even before they got an
attorney." Until this year, the probation department had not kept a record of
ICE referrals, Forrest said.

Forrest replied to the advocates' complaint with an Oct. 29 letter stating that
the county's policy was consistent with 834b of Proposition 187, approved by
voters to prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits and social
services. That provision directed law enforcement officials to "Notify the
Attorney General of California and the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service of the apparent illegal status" of persons arrested.

In a Nov. 30 response to his assertion, the advocates pointed out that 834b was
declared unconstitutional by a federal judge in 1995.

After legal review, the county conceded the legal advocates were correct,
acknowledged Forrest, who became the department's chief probation officer in
2009. "Juveniles were being reported, based on a law that was no longer in
effect."

The new guidelines now in effect state that the probation department "shall
report the juvenile's immigration status to Immigration and Customs Enforcement
when, in the judgment of the officer, (a) the juvenile presents a foreseeable
and/or articulable danger to public safety, or (b) reporting the minor's
immigration status serves the best interests of the minor."

A probation officer's decision to report someone also must be discussed with a
supervisor before any action is taken.

Asked what kinds of offenses might put a youth in the "danger" category, Forrest
ticked off a number of crimes, including assault with a deadly weapon, robbery
and "some kind of gang-related offense."

Supervisor Dave Pine, another subcommittee member, said he was troubled to hear
that the county referred "a lot of juveniles to ICE" when it was not legally
required to do so. Since the start of this year, under the new policy, two
youths have been reported, he said, a number he's much more at ease with.

"The advocates were justified in calling us out on the high numbers of cases we
reported prior to that time," he said. "It should be uncommon, but there are
certain circumstances where the balance of public safety justifies reporting."

Email Bonnie Eslinger atbeslinger@dailynewsgroup.com ; follow her
attwitter.com/bonnieeslinger .

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

U.S. Justice Department opposes undocumented immigrant's right to get California
law license

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 443 words


The Obama administration on Thursday said giving an undocumented immigrant a
California law license would violate a 1996 federal immigration law.

In a brief filed with the California Supreme Court, the U.S. Justice Department
opposed Chico-area law school grad Sergio Garcia's right to become a lawyer as
long as he remains an illegal immigrant. The state Supreme Court, which took up
the case earlier this year, had asked the federal government for its legal
opinion.

"In the view of the United States, (federal law) prohibits this court from
issuing a law license to an unlawfully present alien," government lawyers wrote.

Garcia, who has obtained his law degree and passed the state bar exam, is in
legal limbo while the Supreme Court considers whether it has the ability to give
him a law license. The State Bar Board of Examiners recommended licensing the
35-year-old Garcia, prompting the Supreme Court to take up the legal issue,
particularly whether it would conflict with federal immigration restrictions.

Jerome Fishkin, Garcia's lawyer, said he was "disappointed DOJ did not support
Sergio.

Sergio will keep pursuing his two dreams -- become a U.S. citizen and become a
California attorney," he added.

California Attorney General Kamala Harris has sided with Garcia's right to be a
lawyer, as well as a large coalition of civil rights groups and law professors.
Former California Supreme Court Justice Carlos Moreno backed Garcia in one of
the legal briefs filed with the court.

Garcia originally came to the United States as a toddler and returned to Mexico
at about age 8, returning here for good when he turned 17 to finish high school.
He has been waiting 18 years for his visa; his father and most of his siblings
are already U.S. citizens.

In an interview this summer with this newspaper, Garcia said he was hopeful the
Supreme Court would "let me move on with my life."

But Justice Department lawyers argue the 1996 law forbids granting undocumented
immigrants "certain public benefits," including professional licenses. In its
court papers, the government argues that "those provisions were plainly designed
to preclude undocumented aliens" from getting commercial or professional
licenses.

Harris, California's attorney general, had argued that admitting Garcia to the
bar would be "consistent with state and federal policy that encourages
immigrants, both documented and undocumented, to contribute to society."

The Supreme Court is likely to hear arguments in the case sometime in the fall.
Florida's state Supreme Court is considering a similar case.

Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236 or follow him
atTwitter.com/hmintz .

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sergio Garcia at Durham H.S. where he used to go to school in Durham,
Calif. Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented immigrant who is seeking
the right to practice law in a case now before the California Supreme Court. The
court recently took up the case, inviting the Obama administration to weigh in
on whether federal immigration law bars states from licensing illegal immigrants
for such professions as the law. (Patrick Tehan/Staff)
Sergio Garcia at Durham H.S. where he used to go to school in Durham, Calif.
Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented immigrant who is seeking the
right to practice law in a case now before the California Supreme Court. The
court recently took up the case, inviting the Obama administration to weigh in
on whether federal immigration law bars states from licensing illegal immigrants
for such professions as the law. (Patrick Tehan/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama is not bad man, but a bad president on immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navrrette Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


SAN DIEGO -- There was only one acceptable response from President Barack Obama
when he was grilled on his immigration policies by Univision's Jorge Ramos and
Maria Elena Salinas: "Lo siento" (I'm sorry).

Instead of going on the defensive and retreating into his usual fantasy world
where he and his administration do no wrong, and where it's those dastardly
Republicans who prevented him from keeping his promise to make immigration
reform a top priority, Obama should have offered up a mea culpa.

The president has made a mess of things. He broke campaign promises and, more
important, broke up hundreds of thousands of families by deporting parents, and
placing their U.S.-born children on this side of the border in foster care so
that other people could raise them.

He did all this not -- as some of his supporters argue -- to lay the groundwork
for comprehensive immigration reform. He did it to score points with
conservatives and win back independents by trying to prove that he heard their
concerns about illegal immigration, and that he was tough enough to address
them. And he did it to please two vital elements of the Democratic Party's base:
African-Americans and organized labor, both of whom claim that illegal
immigration takes jobs away from U.S. workers and keeps wages low.

But his immigration policies got away from him. He let the genie out of the
bottle by doing on a federal level what Arizona has done on a state level --
namely, rope thousands of local police officers into the enforcement of federal
immigration law. The program, Secure Communities -- which was started under the
George W. Bush administration -- was put it into overdrive by Obama with the
goal of expanding it nationwide by 2014.

By forcing local police to act as surrogates for immigration agents, the
administration was able to round up and deport more than 1.5 million people. But
it also eliminated police and prosecutorial discretion and ensured that people
who years ago might have been left alone -- for instance, victims of domestic
violence -- were arrested and deported.

Obama is not a bad person. But when it comes to immigration, and the pain
inflicted on the Latino immigrant community in this country, he's been a bad
president.

You'll never hear any contrition for this, from Obama or his surrogates. It's
not in the president's DNA to accept responsibility for his excesses, mistakes
or failures.

When pressed by Ramos and Salinas about his failures on immigration, Obama
trotted out all the old and familiar excuses, justifications and half-truths
that he and his surrogates have used for the past two years to explain away
their policy of "broken promises, broken families."

This included the assertions that have already been discredited, like the claim
that most of those who were deported had criminal convictions. Not so.

But what really was outrageous was when Obama blamed Republicans -- including
Sen. John McCain, who had to slug it out with members of both parties to get a
hearing for the bill he co-authored with the late Sen. Edward Kennedy -- for the
fact that as president, he didn't even propose an immigration reform bill to
Congress.

The real obstacle to immigration reform has always been Democrats who -- despite
their "fool-me-once, fool-me-twice" rhetoric aimed at Latinos -- love nothing
more than pleasing organized labor.

It's time to exit fantasy world. These are the realities underlying the
immigration debate, even if Obama will never admit them.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him
atruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 28, 2012 Friday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama's fantasy world on immigration

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 567 words


There was only one acceptable response from President Barack Obama when he was
grilled over his immigration policies by Univision's Jorge Ramos and Maria Elena
Salinas: "Lo siento" (I'm sorry).

Instead of going on the defensive and retreating into the fantasy world where he
and his administration do no wrong, and where it's those dastardly Republicans
who prevented him from keeping his promise to make immigration reform a top
priority, Obama should have offered up a mea culpa.

The president has made a mess of things. He broke campaign promises and, more
important, broke up hundreds of thousands of families by deporting parents, and
placing their U.S.-born children on this side of the border in foster care so
that other people could raise them.

He did all this not -- as some of his supporters argue -- to lay the groundwork
for comprehensive immigration reform. He did it to score points with
conservatives and win back independents by trying to prove that he heard their
concerns about illegal immigration, and that he was tough enough to address
them. And he did it to please two vital elements of the Democratic Party's base:
African-Americans and organized labor, both of whom claim that illegal
immigration takes jobs away from U.S. workers and keeps wages low.

But his immigration policies got away from him. He let the genie out of the
bottle by doing on a federal level what Arizona has done on a state level --
namely, rope thousands of local police officers into the enforcement of federal
immigration law. The program, Secure Communities -- which was started under the
George W. Bush administration -- was put it into overdrive by Obama with the
goal of expanding it nationwide by 2014. By forcing local police to act as
surrogates for immigration agents, the administration was able to round up and
deport more than 1.5 million people. But it also eliminated police and
prosecutorial discretion and ensured that people who years ago might have been
left alone -- for instance, victims of domestic violence -- were arrested and
deported.

Obama is not a bad person. But when it comes to immigration, and the pain
inflicted on the Latino immigrant community in this country, he's been a bad
president.

You'll never hear any contrition for this, from Obama or his surrogates. It's
not in the president's DNA to accept responsibility for his excesses, mistakes
or failures. Harry Truman said that the buck stopped here. Obama seems to think
the buck stops down the block.

When pressed by Ramos and Salinas about his failures on immigration, Obama
trotted out all the old and familiar excuses, justifications and half-truths
that he and his surrogates have used for the last two years to explain away
their policy of "broken promises, broken families." This included the assertions
that have already been discredited, like the claim that most of those who were
deported had criminal convictions. Not so.

But what really was outrageous was when Obama blamed Republicans  for the fact
that as president, he didn't even propose an immigration reform bill to
Congress. These are the same Republicans who were in the minority for the first
two years of his tenure, and couldn't have stopped immigration reform if they
wanted to.

It's time to exit fantasy world. These are the realities underlying the
immigration debate, even if Obama will never admit them.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Romney says he wouldn't repeal work permits for young illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Allison Sherry, Denver Post

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 616 words


Young illegal immigrants who receive temporary work permits to stay in the
United States under an executive order issued by President Barack Obama would
not be deported under a Mitt Romney administration, the GOP presidential hopeful
told The Denver Post on Monday.

"The people who have received the special visa that the president has put in
place, which is a two-year visa, should expect that the visa would continue to
be valid. I'm not going to take something that they've purchased," Romney said.
"Before those visas have expired we will have the full immigration reform plan
that I've proposed."

In June, Obama issued an executive order that will allow the so-called
"dreamers" - kids who were brought here by their illegal immigrant parents when
they were young - a temporary reprieve from deportation if they stay out of
trouble and meet certain requirements such as graduating from a U.S. high
school.

The Obama administration has sharply criticized Romney's earlier ideas for
immigration reform, which have called for all citizens living in the U.S.
illegally to self-deport.

Romney said in a sit-down interview with The Post aboard his campaign bus ahead
of a Denver rally that he would work with Congress in the first year to pass
permanent immigration reform legislation.

He didn't furnish specifics on that plan, but has said in previous interviews
that students who served in the military may get a path to citizenship.

"I actually will propose a piece of legislation which will reform our
immigration system to improve legal immigration so people don't have to hire
lawyers to figure out how to get here legally," Romney said. "The president
promised in his first year, his highest priority, that he would reform
immigration and he didn't. And I will."

Obama's order mirrors the "DREAM" Act, which has been dead on arrival in every
Congress that's tried to pass it. It was blocked by Senate Republicans two years
ago.

Romney also was hazy about the future of Colorado's medical marijuana industry,
which reaps more than $5 million a year in state sales taxes, saying his
administration would enforce federal drug laws, that prohibit marijuana for any
use.

"I oppose marijuana being used for recreational purposes, and I believe the
federal law should prohibit the recreational use of marijuana," he said.

Romney will spend Tuesday holed up preparing for the first presidential debate,
Wednesday at the University of Denver. He said he was looking forward to sharing
a stage with the president to clear up distortions of the last few months.

"I think what's going to happen in this debate is each of us will get the
opportunity to describe our pathway forward for America," Romney said. "And for
the last several weeks and months, the president has dramatically distorted my
own views. I look forward to the debate so people will understand what I
actually believe."

Romney said he knew not everyone was going to agree with him after Wednesday's
face-off.

"Do they want to continue with the status quo, which has lead to a circumstance
where we now have three years where each year the rate of growth in our economy
has slowed," he said. "The policies of the past are not working."

After the interview, Romney delivered an economic speech to a crowd of roughly
6,000 at the Wings Over the Rockies air and space museum in Denver's Lowry
neighborhood.

The Obama campaign dismissed Romney's speech by arguing his plan would ease
taxes on the wealthy and raise taxes for the middle class, a claim Romney
disputes.

"The economy is not in recovery," Romney said to a lively crowd packed in an old
hanger full of old airplanes. "We're not seeing a real recovery. The president's
policies have not worked."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt
Romney campaigns at Wings Over the Rockies Air and Space Museum in Denver,
Monday, Oct. 1, 2012. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)
Republican presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney
campaigns at Wings Over the Rockies Air and Space Museum in Denver, Monday, Oct.
1, 2012. (AP Photo/Charles Dharapak)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

A dizzying series of legal twists and turns: Foreign-born spouses caught in an
immigration maze of politics and policy

BYLINE: By Susan Ferriss and Amy Isackson The Center for Public Integrity,
California Report

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1214 words


Given the white-hot politics of immigration, it's perhaps not surprising that
President Obama instantly drew fire with a proposal in January to help
undocumented spouses of American citizens obtain legal status - without being
ousted from the U.S. for years as punishment.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas - the chairman of the House of Representatives
Judiciary Committee - accused Obama of "bending long established rules" and
pursuing a "backdoor amnesty."

"Who is the President batting for - illegal immigrants or the American people?"
Smith said in astatement .

Smith is no casual observer. He is the key author of the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, which established penalties
mandating years of exile for illegal immigrants before they can return to the
United States and legalize - even if they are married to an American citizen.
Marriage is one of the primary ways a person obtains legal status within the
largely family-based U.S. immigration system.

Republican members of Congress argued back then that more had to be done to
discourage illegal immigration. Too many immigrants were entering the country
unlawfully or overstaying visitor visas, members said, and were marrying U.S.
citizens or legal residents and staying. Too many relatives of legal residents
who were supposed to wait back home for visas, sometimes for many years, were
entering ahead of time, illegally, and staying, members added.



Since the 1950s, some illegal immigrants, based on a job or other ties, had been
able to plead for legal residency before immigration officials in the U.S. who
had the power to grant them that status. In 1994, Congress adopted a statute
that codified the ability of illegal immigrants with legitimate family
sponsorship to transition to legal status without having to leave the U.S. They
could complete their process by paying fees or fines, so long as they had no
serious criminal record.

In 1996, Congress upped the fine from $650 to $1,000, and passed the 1996
legislation in an effort to toughen the procedures. Members wanted U.S. consular
officers in the immigrants' homeland to screen applicants - and then mete out
years-long "bars" to applicants who had tried to enter the U.S. illegally.

Ultimately, Congress allowed people who had filed petitions for legal status
before April 30, 2001, to continue to seek legal status from within the U.S.
Then it closed that avenue for immigrants if they originally entered the U.S.
illegally - which meant the 1996 legislation started to be more strictly
enforced, even for those married to American citizens.

Here's how the 1996 bars work:

If illegal immigrants entered the U.S. unlawfully, they must return to their
home countries for a residency-application interview with U.S. consular
officers, who then must apply bars if merited.

The two most basic penalties are three-year bars from the U.S. to penalize
"unlawful presence" in the U.S. for more than six months, and 10-year bars for
unlawful presence in the U.S. of more than one year. Congress included a waiver
possibility to shorten the bar for unlawful presence for some.

But decisions on waivers have taken months, even years, to complete. Waivers
must be based on proof that the applicant's American sponsor is suffering
extreme hardship - like a serious medical condition - rather than just heartache
or financial loss.

If immigrants have a history of two or more illegal entries to the United
States, they aren't even eligible to apply for hardship waivers. Their penalty
is a lifetime bar, with a possible pardon if they remain outside the U.S. for 10
years, some have been told. If applicants are accused of having falsely claimed
to be a U.S. citizen to enter the U.S. or of lying to a U.S. official, they can
get a permanent lifetime bar.

Wayne Cornelius , an immigration expert at the University of California at San
Diego, called the bars "symbolic," and said there's no evidence they've played a
serious role in reducing illegal immigration. After the bars were adopted,
theestimated undocumented population in the U.S. rose from 8 million in 2000 to
a peak of 12 million in 2007.

Jessica Vaughan , policy studies director at the Center for Immigration Studies,
a Washington, D.C., group favoring less immigration, calls the bars
"proportionate to the offense." But she also doubts they've had broad deterrent
power.

"It is most definitely time to take a good, hard look at this section of the
law," Vaughan said.

Doris Meissner , who was Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner in
1996, said the impact of mandatory bars on American families is "crying out for
broader discussion." Meissner is now a fellow at the Migration Policy Institute,
a nonpartisan research group in Washington, D.C.

On Jan. 6 of this year, U.S. immigration officialsannounced President Obama's
proposal to implement regulatory changes that address some of these complaints.

The changes, officials said, would benefit the immigrant spouses and adult
children only of U.S. citizens - and only if these undocumented relatives are
eligible to apply for hardship waivers to overcome the bar for unlawful presence
in the U.S. for more than one year.

"The proposal will not change existing laws," Alejandro Mayorkas, director of
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, insisted in a press call. "The
[proposed] process would allow these individuals to have their waiver
applications processed in the United States - and receive a provisional waiver
determination before they complete the visa process at a consulate outside the
United States."

The benefit wouldn't be open to those whose previous offenses make them
ineligible to apply for a waiver right away - like those who had crossed the
border illegally more than once. Couples filing hardship waivers risk failing,
but officials said they expect many to succeed and avoid long separation.

Mayorkas said the administration was mindful, too, that families can face
"precarious" conditions when they travel abroad.

In 2011,U.S. citizen Jake Reyes-Neal , 21, was killed by thieves in an attack in
Juarez, Mexico, where the Colorado man had moved with his undocumented wife and
their baby to pursue a waiver at the U.S. consulate there.

Rep. Smith declined to comment on the concerns of citizens who face long
separation.

His staff pointed to his statement in January, when he said waivers were "not
intended to be applied to millions of illegal immigrants."

Other immigration hawks in Congress also declined comment, including Rep. Steve
King, R-Iowa, and California Republican Reps. Dana Rohrabacher, Brian Bilbray
and Elton Gallegly.

Anotice of intent to adopt the new Obama rule was published Jan. 9 in the
Federal Register. And theproposed rule was posted to the Federal Register April
2. A comment period ran from April 2 to June 1.

The final rule hasn't been published yet, and immigration officials say they
have no target date. When the rule is finally published, it will go into effect
30 to 60 days later.

If Obama isn't president when it goes into effect, a new president - Mitt Romney
- could undo the rule through the same rulemaking process. Place with body copy.
Can go at bottom if story is not paginated. If story is paginated, please put on
every page.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 9, 2012 Friday

Mercury News editorial: Immigration reform won't be enough to save GOP

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 465 words


It's fascinating to watch the GOP face up to the political reality that
Tuesday's election laid bare. A day earlier, Republicans who supported amnesty
for illegal immigrants would have been flamed as heretics. By Friday, a crop of
born-again reformers was supporting a path to citizenship. When Fox News' Sean
Hannity flips -- that is change for sure.

It's a validation of the power of voting. Just by showing up at the polls,
Latino voters are changing national policy. But immigration reform alone won't
solve the GOP's disconnect with minority communities. The party needs to rethink
a vision that portrays hardworking people with aspirations of a better life as
something to fear or disdain instead of welcome into the American family.

Without a real shift, the national GOP faces the same ignominious fate as
California's. The party here is now irrelevant. It has just 29 percent of
registered voters, not one statewide officeholder and is facing a Legislature
that, for the first time in more than 100 years, will have a supermajority of
Democrats.

This in a state that gave President Ronald Reagan nearly 58 percent of the vote
in 1984.

The party's decline here can be traced to its support in 1994 of the
mean-spirited Proposition 187, which denied health care and education to illegal
immigrants. Most of it was thrown out in court, but the GOP has continued to
scapegoat immigrants for societal problems and, by extension, insult Latinos --
who now make up 38 percent of the state's population and are voting in
increasing numbers.

In this trend, California is the future of the nation. Today, 16.7 percent of
the U.S. population is Latino; three-quarters of Latino voters supported Barack
Obama. By 2050, according to the Pew Research Center, Latinos will constitute 29
percent of the population. Do the math.

Republicans nationally also have taken a dismissive posture toward Latinos.
Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotamayor is the perfect example. Rather than seeing
her as a model of accomplishment whose views they disliked, many portrayed her
as an affirmative-action hire who would use racial pride as her guidepost on the
bench -- in other words, someone white Americans should fear.

It wasn't just Mitt Romney who labeled 47 percent of Americans as "takers." Fox
commentators embraced the figure through election night. It was stupid and
unnecessary.

Republicans' small-government philosophy is not inherently hostile to nearly
half of Americans. But that's how GOP leadership beholden to the tea party has
framed the rhetoric.

Obamacare and cap-and-trade both were Republican ideas before the party turned
on them. The past week's shift on immigration could signal a move to a more
inclusive GOP. We hope so. California and the nation need two strong parties for
government to work.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: People vote at a polling place in the heavily Latino East L.A. area
during the U.S. presidential election on November 6, 2012 in Los Angeles,
California. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

California sending new immigration perspective to Congress

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 728 words


As President Barack Obama promises a fight for comprehensive immigration reform
early next year, California is sending to the U.S. Capitol fewer seasoned
adversaries and more allies echoing his calls for swift action.

But the key demand of the emboldened immigrant rights movement -- citizenship
for nearly all illegal immigrants -- remains an uphill battle as groups opposing
a "blanket amnesty" promise to punish Republicans who stray too far from their
cause.

Republicans still solidly control the House of Representatives, but the
electoral shake-up in the California congressional delegation -- fueled by the
growing clout of Latino and Asian-American voters -- signals a moderating tone
on resolving the problem of 11 million immigrants living in the country
illegally.

"Both symbolically and substantively, having a very different California
delegation is going to make a huge difference in the prospects for immigration
reform," said Patty Kupfer of the liberal immigration lobby group America's
Voice.

Symbolizing the changed landscape, Congress is losing seven of the 18 California
Republicans who in 2010 opposed the Dream Act, a pathway to citizenship for
young illegal immigrants brought to the United States as children.

Four are retiring, some after redistricting and the state's new top-two
primaries hurt their re-election chances.

An additional three GOP stalwarts -- Sacramento County's Dan Lungren, San Diego
County's Brian Bilbray and the Inland Empire's Mary Bono Mack -- lost
hard-fought elections to liberal Democrats in redrawn districts where Latinos,
Asian-Americans and immigrant voters have growing sway.

And in the only district Republicans took from Democrats, San Joaquin Valley
Assemblyman David Valadao won with a moderate immigration message.

Even the Democrats who replaced Democrats with like-minded views on immigration
say they are making a humane overhaul a bigger priority.

"I do think it's clear from the results of the election that people in America
are ready for immigration reform," said incoming U.S. Rep. Eric Swalwell,
D-Dublin, a prosecutor who unseated fellow Democrat Pete Stark.

"(Our) inexperience in Washington as a new delegation will actually benefit the
immigration debate," Swalwell said. "We're not going to go to Washington and be
used to gridlock. We are problem solvers."

In San Diego County, restrictionist groups are lamenting the defeat of incumbent
U.S. Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Carlsbad, a founder of the hard-line Immigration
Reform Caucus whose hallmark cause was ramping up U.S.-Mexico border
enforcement.

"It is a loss," said Roy Beck, director of Virginia-based NumbersUSA, a group
smarting over losing nine strongly "anti-amnesty, tighter labor market" seats in
the House of Representatives.

Also gone is the less flamboyant but more powerful U.S. Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Simi Valley, the retiring chairman of the House Immigration Subcommittee. He
led a decades-long fight to exclude illegal immigrants from benefits, including
public education and birthright citizenship for their children, to keep them
from staying.

His replacement couldn't be more different: Assemblywoman Julia Brownley
sponsored California's Dream Act granting undocumented students access to
financial aid. She will be the first Democrat to represent Ventura County since
the 1940s.

In an interview, Gallegly rejected talk of a game-changing political landscape.
He warned against interpreting the record Latino turnout aiding Obama's victory
as a message to go softer on immigration.

"I think that's a huge myth," Gallegly said. "The Latinos that are legally in
this country, which is a major part of the heritage of California, are more
adversely affected by the impacts of illegal immigration than the Anglos are."

Beck acknowledged legislative relief for "the Dream kids" is growing more
likely, but, he said, "I feel quite certain that the American people will keep a
mass amnesty from happening."

Already marshaling against conciliatory Republicans is the same nationwide
network "we mobilized in 2007 to defeat Bush's amnesty, and in 2010 to defeat
the Dream amnesty," he said.

But Kupfer said immigrants and their advocates, after helping to secure Obama's
re-election, are also digging in.

"We're looking much broader than the Dream Act right now," Kupfer said. "We
don't want to stop anything short of citizenship for 11 million people."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Jan 25 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Letters from our readers Oakland Tribune © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News
Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 812 words


Companies failing returning veterans

A federal immigration audit last year revealed that Pacific Steel in Berkeley
had hired 200 illegal immigrants, many of whom had been working illegally at
Pacific Steel for more than a decade.

That same year, the national unemployment rate was about 9 percent, while the
unemployment rate for young veterans ages 18 to 24, had a jobless rate of 30.4
percent. For black veterans ages 18 to 24, the unemployment rate was a striking
48 percent.

The VA estimates that 107,000 veterans are homeless on any given night and that
1.5 million other veterans are considered at-risk of homelessness.

The contributing factor of these grim statistics? Companies such as Pacific
Steel, whose only glory is its shame.

Bill Abundis

Homeless Veteran Outreach Director, East County Veterans Antioch

Lobbyist's complaint an unfair attack

In his Jan. 13 letter, Carlos Plazola did not identify himself as a lobbyist
hired by out-of-town developers such as Michael Joe O'Donoghue. Plazola referred
to actual concerned Oakland residents as "obstructionists."

About 2006, Oakland, like many other cities, overbuilt. Supply and demand went
out of balance. Property values plummeted. Property tax receipts dropped. Cities
such as Oakland would end up with less money, a high rate of foreclosures and
vacancies, unfinished projects and a high crime rate.

We still have not recovered.

Repeating an experiment that has failed is insane. Developers will do what they
have always done -- i.e., take the money and run. They will siphon money to
politicians through political action committees, creating a situation where our
tax moneys serve Plazola's clients instead of serving the needs of Oakland's
residents.

Of course, Oakland has its problems. They will not be solved by developers
getting in bed with politicians. The situation is corrupt. Ultimately, the only
ones who can resolve Oakland's problems are the concerned Oakland residents
Plazola and his clients chose to disrespect.

We know Oakland is our special city, and we want to keep it unique. A garden is
unique -- an out-of-scale tower is not.

Orna Sassoon

Oakland

Developers motivated by color of money

In his recent letter, Carlos Plazola failed to mention that he is a longtime
lobbyist for wealthy development interests; that these same interests
contributed to the collapse of the housing market; and that the redwoods on the
Shilling Gardens property easily qualify for protected status as "heritage
trees," a legal designation for trees of extraordinary size and beauty.

Plazola is aware of all this. However, since the only thing green he respects
are the Benjamins in his wallet, he chooses to deny.

As a professional horticultural/arborist with more than 35 years' experience, I
wrote a letter (now on file with the city) to preserve these trees as special.

The Landmarks Commission almost unanimously agreed with me and rightly condemned
Plazola's motives as self-serving.

Over the years of my living here in Oakland, I've heard much talk from our city
officials about going "green." But when some rich, out-of-town developer dangles
a hefty campaign contribution to "bend" the system for selfish purposes, green
and the public weal go in the toilet.

I'm still waiting for the day that our elected government tells these
carpetbaggers no, and sends them packing. I won't hold my breath.

James J. Fenton

Oakland

Let's stop talking about Marines

This whole Marines video thing just makes me sad.

Sad to see our military brass and our civilian leaders forced to apologize yet
again. Sad to see our country's reputation dragged through the mud again.

Sad that pinhead whiners are calling for lynching a bunch of kids for acting
like a bunch of kids. Sad that pea-brained knuckle-draggers are desecrating the
flag by trying to use it as a gag to muffle the voices of their fellow citizens.

Sad that formerly respectable men such as Allen West are trying to sell the
un-American notion that some of us have more rights to speak freely than do
others.

Mostly, though, I am just sad for these young adults who are willing to put
their lives on the line for their country, but who forgot their common sense in
a moment of adolescent bravado and stupidity. There already has been too much
blather and drivel from the peanut gallery over this, so how about all of us
just shutting up?

Bob Baldwin

Berkeley

No sympathy for dead Taliban extremists

As a member of the military during the Korean War, I strongly disagree with the
blabbermouths who are denigrating the Marines who urinated on the dead bodies of
the Taliban heathens in Afghanistan.

These Taliban extremists are well-known for cutting the heads off people while
they are still alive. The people who are complaining -- most of whom have never
served in the military and been involved in combat -- are just plain wrong.

I support and stand by the Marines.

Rich Phillips

San Leandro

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: In the cross hairs of the word police

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 742 words


SAN DIEGO -- There is a campaign under way to shame media companies into
abandoning the term "illegal immigrant" and replacing it with kinder and gentler
euphemisms such as "undocumented worker."

The National Association of Hispanic Journalists -- which I've been a member of
for two decades, and which has rarely stuck its neck out to defend Hispanic
journalists, let alone immigrants -- has even gone so far as to suggest that the
phrase causes hate crimes.

The crusade against the "I-word" began in September when, at an online
journalism conference, freelance journalist and activist Jose Antonio Vargas put
media companies on notice. He said they would be monitored and when they used
"illegal immigrant" -- which he claims "dehumanizes" people -- the infraction
would be duly recorded.

Vargas -- who was born in the Philippines and last year revealed his status as
an illegal immigrant (he prefers "American without papers") -- identified The
Associated Press and The New York Times as "two main targets."

Both institutions have since defended the term and continue to use it. In
response, Univision attacked the Times as being behind the curve and out of
touch with Latinos.

Let's hear it for common sense. Media companies -- and the journalists who work
for them -- need to stand up to these pressure tactics and continue to use the
term. Here are 10 reasons why:

-- The wording is accurate. When you enter the United States without permission
or overstay a visa, you break a law. Vargas notes that "being in a country
without proper documents is a civil offense, not a criminal one." True. But the
word "illegal" simply means against the law, and civil laws can be broken just
like criminal ones.

-- The proposed change is, for the most part, about being politically correct.
And this is not a good spot from which to practice journalism. My profession
isn't about making folks comfortable. That's public relations. At its best,
journalism is about making them uncomfortable.

-- The word police simply want to sanitize the debate, so that immigration
reformers don't get their hands dirty by condoning illegal activity.

-- One way to sanitize is to minimize the offense. The idea is to advance the
argument that illegal immigration isn't really a crime, just an example of
desperate people doing what they have done for centuries -- chasing opportunity
to survive.

-- For those who are concerned that the word "illegal" stirs negative emotions,
many of those concerns can be addressed if we agree not to use it as a noun
(i.e., "the illegals") and if we completely refrain from using the much more
offensive term "illegal alien."

-- The charge that the term "dehumanizes" people is ridiculous. It describes an
action as much as it does a person. An illegal immigrant is someone who
immigrates illegally.

-- This debate distracts from the real issues -- i.e., the need for
comprehensive immigration reform, walls of separation between immigration agents
and local police, an end to do-it-yourself state immigration laws, and a return
to the days when deportation policies were not out of whack.

-- The issue also alienates supporters of comprehensive immigration reform and
other right-minded people who think we should have a more fair, more honest, and
more humane way of dealing with illegal immigrants but who also feel uneasy
about scrubbing the language and calling them anything other than "illegal
immigrants."

-- This is a squabble among elites. Ask an illegal immigrant if he cares what
he's called or whether he is more preoccupied with his day-to-day struggle to
work and provide for his family, avoid deportation and ensure that his children
get legalized, and you'll see that changing the language of the debate doesn't
even register.

-- Finally, the crusade highlights the hypocrisy of liberal Democrats who like
to think of themselves as progressives because they eschew a term such as
"illegal" but then turn around and support a Democratic president who has racked
up record numbers of deportations.

This whole discussion is a terrible waste of time. It's also a reminder that
those of us who support comprehensive immigration reform need to get our story
straight.

We have long argued that illegal immigrants should have the opportunity, via
earned legalization, to make amends for wrongdoing. Is the new argument that
those immigrants needn't bother because, on second thought, they did nothing
wrong?

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

Man who escaped from Santa Rita Jail back in custody, on immigration hold

BYLINE: By Paul Thissen Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 261 words


DUBLIN -- A day after escaping from Santa Rita Jail and spending about seven
hours on the lam, suspected burglar Jose Luis Gonzales Franco is back in
custody. And now federal immigration officials are looking at his case, too.

The 57-year-old, who had been arrested in Oakland on Dec. 28 on burglary
charges, is now in custody without bail on a federal immigration hold, according
to jail records. Officials still are not sure how he escaped Monday.

Specifics of the immigration hold were not available Tuesday, but it means
federal authorities believe Franco is "deportable," said Virgina Kice, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Kice said she could not comment specifically on Franco's case, including the
reason for the hold and why it came into effect the day after his escape
attempt, even though he had been in jail since December.

Additional charges relating to his escape have not yet been presented to the
Alameda County District Attorney's Office, said Sheriff's spokesman J.D. Nelson.

He could be charged with escaping from custody and theft, for the bicycle he was
found riding when he was captured Monday evening in Dublin, not far from the
jail, Nelson said.

The Sheriff's Office is still investigating how Franco escaped over a wall as he
arrived back at the jail after a morning court hearing, Nelson said.

A jail employee saw the inmate running away from the jail about 2 p.m., sparking
a hunt by officers on foot, including some with dogs, and by helicopter.

Contact Paul Thissen at 925-847-2122. Follow him at Twitter.com/pthissen .

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday

California immigration crackdown campaign to enlist American Legion members

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words


Continuing a 93-year fight to control immigration, American Legion leaders are
rallying military veterans to convince California voters they should require
police to enforce federal immigration law.

"This country is for people who are here legally, who are born here, not for
people who came here illegally, who kind of snuck in," said Bill Siler, adjutant
of California's American Legion branch.

The Concord resident is co-sponsoring an initiative to keep it that way and
plans to enlist help from the 88,780 Legionnaires statewide to help collect the
more than half-million signatures needed to put it on the November ballot.

Although better known for its veteran advocacy, devotion to flag etiquette,
baseball leagues and patriotic youth programs, the American Legion has lobbied
for stricter immigration rules since its founding after World War I.

The group in 1920 won 75 percent of the vote for its first California
proposition, strengthening state laws denying Japanese immigrants the right to
own land.

The Legion then helped persuade Congress to pass national immigration quotas in
1924 and has sought immigration moratoriums and heightened enforcement every
decade since.

"The American Legion, since its inception in 1919, has expressed concern that
legal and illegal immigrants arriving in this country in large numbers would be
unable to effectively assimilate into our society unless numerical quotas were
established and enforced," began one of five immigration-related resolutions the
group passed at its 2010 national convention.

This latest California volley aims, in part, to block liberal Bay Area counties
from interfering with federal immigration prerogatives. It would require all
counties to fully enforce Secure Communities, the network that alerts
immigration agents whenever police book a deportable immigrant at a city or
county jail.

"If they go to jail, it takes our taxpayer money to keep them here," Siler said.
"If they are here illegally, they should be deported."

The measure would also deny driver's licenses to undocumented immigrants, which
is already California law but in danger, according to proponents. And it would
order sheriffs of the 20 counties with the worst cross-border gang activity to
devote more resources to immigration enforcement.

Hundreds of the veterans voted to support it at their state convention in June.

"Hopefully they'll be the ones to get out the signatures to get it on the
ballot," Siler said.

If not, "I guess that will be the end of it."

Initiative author and co-sponsor Ted Hilton of San Diego has been drafting
immigration control ballot measures since the early 1990s.

Voters have not been supportive of such drives in recent years.

Hilton's 2009 proposal to revoke automatic citizenship for the U.S.-born
children of illegal immigrants failed to find enough signatures.

A Belmont Republican's 2010 initiative modeled on Arizona's immigration
crackdown found too few voters willing to put it on the ballot.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Claremont, last month fell about 57,000 signatures
short of qualifying a measure to revoke a law allowing financial aid for
undocumented college students.

But none of those had a veterans organization promising heavy involvement.

"We have over 490 posts, local units up and down the state," said Siler, a
69-year-old Vietnam War Navy veteran who joined the American Legion 33 years ago
and has managed the California branch for six years.

The Secretary of State's Office on Jan. 31 cleared the initiative for
circulation. Proponents need 504,760 registered voters -- almost six times the
Legion's declining statewide membership -- to sign the petition by June 28.

They call it the Protection Against Transnational Gangs Act and say it may block
Santa Clara, Santa Cruz and San Francisco counties from refusing to hold some
immigrant inmates for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"The criminal element, certainly they're going to go to states where there are
more sanctuary ordinances or to counties with policies like Santa Clara County,"
Hilton said.

Most immigrants living in the U.S. illegally are neither gang members nor
criminals and to call the immigration initiative an anti-gang measure may
confuse voters about what it would actually do, said Pratheepan Gulasekaram, a
Santa Clara University law school professor.

"It's a very shrewd move. Who doesn't want there to be less gang activity?"
Gulasekaram said. The added enforcement would cost millions of dollars annually,
according to the state's independent analysis.

Joining Siler and Hilton as a sponsor is conservative stalwart Tirso del Junco,
an 86-year-old retired surgeon who led the California Republican Party in the
early 1980s and was a University of California regent. He plans to tout the
measure at the Feb. 24 through 25 statewide GOP convention in Burlingame.

It will be a tough sell even if the measure makes the ballot, Gulasekaram said.

"This sort of stuff tends to get passed only when you have the right partisan
conditions, when you have a Republican-dominated electorate and a
Republican-dominated Legislature, which we don't have in California."

A federal appeals court in San Francisco temporarily halts the deportation of
seven illegal immigrants. Story,
Page 7

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bill Siler III, the departmental adjutant of California's branch of the
American Legion, is photographed in San Francisco, Calif. Monday, Feb. 6, 2012.
Siler, of Concord, is working on a newly approved initiative campaign for a law
ordering California police to enforce federal immigration law (Kristopher
Skinner/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Ninth Circuit Court asks Obama administration to clarify its deportation
priorities

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 440 words


In a direct challenge to the Obama administration, a federal appeals court
temporarily halted the deportation of seven immigrants until federal authorities
explain whether they should be deported.

"It has caused quite a stir," said San Jose immigration lawyer Bernadette
Connolly, whose client David Aranda Rodriguez is one of the seven who won the
unexpected reprieve Monday.

A panel of the San-Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 2-1
to give the Obama administration until March 19 to explain if Aranda Rodriguez
and the other immigrants deserve a break under a new enforcement policy known as
prosecutorial discretion.

The dissenting judge called putting the deportations on hold an "audacious
ruling" that exceeded the judges' authority.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton had announced in
June that immigration authorities would stop detaining and deporting some
illegal immigrants who have close family and community ties and no criminal
records.

Aranda Rodriguez fits that bill, said his lawyer.

The San Joaquin County construction worker and Mexican immigrant has lived in
the United States for more than two decades and cares for two U.S. citizen
children.

"He's the kind of person Mr. Obama and also the Morton memo is talking about. He
exemplifies that," Connolly said.

Aranda Rodriguez lost his case in the immigration courts before appealing to the
higher court.

Although the Obama administration has said it will review all 300,000 pending
deportation cases to find thousands it can close, its slow implementation has
caused some confusion.

The circuit court panel -- led by Judges William Canby and Raymond Fisher -- is
now prodding for more answers. The judges said they would wait for the Obama
administration to say whether Aranda Rodigruez and the other immigrants were
eligible for reprieves. The judges halted five cases, two of which involve
couples.

Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain's dissent called it an "audacious ruling" because the
executive branch has authority over how it chooses to prosecute cases.

"The majority thus needlessly catapults this court into a realm of
decision-making from which it is constitutionally walled off," he wrote.

Republican lawmakers echoed O'Scannlain's criticism in condemning the panel for
judicial overreach.

"The 9th Circuit has a history of legislating from the bench and now they have
turned the Obama administration's prosecutorial discretion guidelines into an
excuse for their judicial activism," wrote U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, in a statement released Tuesday.

The panel's rulings came on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

Mercury News editorial: New hope for immigration reform

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 329 words


The Sept. 11 attacks have taken a huge toll on our economy, the most obvious
being the changes they inspired in airline travel. But one of the most insidious
effects has been the backlash of immigration policies that have deprived the
innovation economy of fine minds from other countries. It's been especially
foolish to stop encouraging foreign students graduating from U.S. universities
to stay here to start their careers and businesses. (In Silicon Valley, as we
well know, those starts can be simultaneous.)

In his State of the Union address, President Barack Obama raised a wisp of hope
that immigration policies could change despite this being an election year -- or
perhaps because of it. It's one thing to fume about illegal border crossing.
It's another to be deliberately discouraging innovators and potential job
creators from coming or staying here. There are signs that Republicans will
support this type of immigration reform. And any progress is better than none.

Details are sketchy, but as they become clearer, we hope the president draws on
the good work by U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, on this issue. Looking out
for Silicon Valley companies that, in good times, run short of skilled workers,
she has sponsored a variety of legislation in recent years that could help
restore sanity to our immigration policies, at least regarding highly skilled or
educated workers.

For example, Lofgren would like to offer green cards to foreign students who
receive graduate degrees from U.S. universities in science, technology,
engineering and math. They're benefiting from our education system; why send
them back to India or China to compete against us? If they want to stay, we
should welcome them. Many of today's valley companies were started by
immigrants.

The harder political challenge will be dealing with immigrants who are here
illegally. Some want comprehensive immigration reform or none at all, but we say
fix what we can now. Our economy depends on it.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren during an interview with Mercury
News reporter at her San Jose office on August 13, 2007. (Joanne Ho-Young
Lee/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

High-tech new citizens bemoan long path to ceremony

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News; Local; Business

LENGTH: 830 words


Twenty-one years after he set foot in the United States, Facebook engineer Wei
Zhu was overjoyed to take his oath of citizenship Wednesday at a special Silicon
Valley immigration summit.

But why, he asked, did becoming American have to take him two decades?

"The path for me to become a citizen was really too long. It really shouldn't
have to be this long," said the 39-year-old Cupertino engineer, one of the
brains behind the social network's Facebook Connect application.

But even as the nation's top immigration official praised the select group of
accomplished immigrants in a ceremony at Moffett Field, many of the new citizens
and others expressed candid frustration at the bureaucratic hurdles that can
make it hard to settle in the United States.

One immigration lawyer stood up to describe the agency as incompetent. A
prominent venture capitalist said the "lifeblood of Silicon Valley" is getting
choked by immigration restrictions. A guest worker from India promised to leave
if he didn't get a permanent visa soon.

"Just let me get on a visa," Yogesh Agarwal said during a question-and-answer
session. If not, said the 29-year-old Sunnyvale resident whose H-1B work visa
expires next year, "I will probably go back to my country and start a business
there."

Summit host, U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Director Alejandro Mayorkas,
replied that he was trying his best to smooth the path for skilled immigrants
and the businesses that want to hire them.

With little chance that a divided Congress will pass new immigration laws,
Mayorkas said he was trying to work within the system to make the immigration
bureaucracy nimble enough to benefit the fast-changing tech and science fields.

Entrepreneur and academic Vivek Wadhwa, acknowledged at the ceremony with the
agency's "Outstanding Americans by Choice" award, called the immigration system
a "complete mess" that is draining the country of talent but said Mayorkas
wasn't to blame.

"I'm his biggest fan," Wadhwa told the audience of more than 150 business people
and attorneys. "He's doing whatever he can within his power to fix the system,
but he's handicapped."

It was immigration law, more than its administration, that most needs fixing, he
and others said.

Wei Zhu exemplified the frustrations. Born in a remote part of China, he came to
the West Coast as a 17-year-old in 1991, immediately enrolling in college and
delivering newspapers to help pay the bills. It took him about a decade to
finally get his green card, but then, in a complicated twist, he gave it up so
his fiancée could get hers.

"I was desperate, trying to figure a way so she could stay with me," he said. "I
gave them my green card."

He spent many more years trying to get a new one, losing entrepreneurial
opportunities because he had to stick with the big companies that sponsored his
stay.

Mayorkas hosted the Wednesday summit to discuss better utilizing existing
employment-based visas: B visas for business visitors, E-1 and E-2 visas for
traders and investors from countries that have signed special treaties with the
United States, L-1 visas for intracompany transfers, O-1 visas for workers with
"extraordinary ability" and the best known and most controversial: H-1B visas
for skilled workers in the technology field and other specialty occupations.

"Today is a very important step," said Mayorkas, who said he is launching a new
initiative -- called Entrepreneurs in Residence -- to bring more tech expertise
into a federal agency he acknowledged doesn't always fully grasp the high-tech
landscape.

Echoing his approach was U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who helped conduct
the morning ceremony granting citizenship to 21 tech workers.

"The Republicans have blocked reform, so we need to do what we can within the
law," Lofgren said in an interview.

The summit reflected a crowd that overwhelmingly favors a more liberal
immigration policy, especially for workers with demonstrated skills and advanced
education. Some speakers noted the political reality that not all Americans
share their preference for such an open immigration policy.

"This is a very political issue. We have to be cognizant of that," said venture
capitalist Shervin Pishevar, who tearfully described his own family's escape
from Iran when he was a boy. "Part of that is going to be marketing and winning
the hearts and minds of Americans."

Those who think the United States welcomes too many foreign workers have been
rallying behind a Texas woman who challenged President Barack Obama during a
nationwide Internet "hangout" on Jan. 30.

"My question to you is why does the government continue to issue and extend H-1B
visas when there are tons of Americans just like my husband with no job?" asked
Jennifer Wedel, whose husband lost an engineering job three years ago at Texas
Instruments.

Obama told her husband to send him his resume, and the president said, "I'll
forward it to some of these companies that are telling me they can't find enough
engineers in this field."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Facebook developer, Wei Zhu takes the oath of citizenship at a special
naturalization ceremony where he became a United States citizen at the Ames
Conference Center at Moffett Field in Mountain View, Calif. on Wednesday, Feb.
22, 2012. (Jim Stevens/Staff)
Facebook developer Wei Zhu holds his daughter Aurelia, 15 months, at a special
naturalization ceremony where he became a United States citizen at the Ames
Conference Center at Moffett Field in Mountain View, Calif. on Wednesday, Feb.
22, 2012. (Jim Stevens/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday

Opinion: A problem without a solution

BYLINE: By Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 732 words


SAN DIEGO -- Do you remember when some liberal Democrats -- in opposing
heavy-handed attempts by Republicans to regulate immigration policy in Arizona
and elsewhere -- used to whoop and holler about how states should not exceed
their authority and usurp the power of the federal government?

That argument is so 10 minutes ago.

Now, in California, some Democrats are even taking a page out of the
Republicans' playbook. They're trying to do what the federal government won't
do: create a guest worker program for agriculture and the service industries and
go so far as to give undocumented workers the equivalent of legal residency.

Hold on. I wasn't aware that legal residency was a state's to give. This isn't a
driver's license or fishing permit. Residency is a way to prevent people from
being deported and having their lives turned upside down.

States having this kind of power probably will come as news to the Department of
Homeland Security, which -- under the Obama administration -- has deported
record numbers of immigrants who lacked legal residency and probably will deport
many more regardless of what state governments do or don't.

It seems that there are those on the left who -- while they mean well and want
to achieve reasonable and humane immigration reform -- are just as much in need
of refresher courses in government and civics as some on the right.

For me, the frustrating part is that I agree with the objectives that the
reformers are trying to accomplish. We need some kind of guest worker program to
import foreign labor, and this need will only increase in the next few decades
as countries such as Mexico create more job opportunities for their own
citizens.

While guest worker programs almost always are problematic and often lead to
exploitation, they are necessary to fill the sort of jobs that Americans won't
take -- such as in agriculture.

Assemblyman V. Manuel Perez, D-Coachella, knows those jobs well. He represents
one of the poorest districts in the state, one that presses up against the
U.S.-Mexico border. Perez recently authored a guest worker bill as part of a
three-bill package that also enhances border enforcement and makes it easier for
immigrants to come to the United States legally.

For him and his allies in the Legislature, it's all about accepting reality and
admitting the degree to which the California economy has become dependent on
illegal immigrant workers. It's also about not wasting any more time expecting
lawmakers in Washington to tackle an issue that terrifies them.

"I don't think we can wait any longer," Perez said recently. "I think we have to
force the conversation."

The guest worker bill -- dubbed the Agricultural Jobs and Industry Stabilization
Act -- would create a program to bring in foreign laborers to fill jobs. If
passed, California would seek the permission of the federal government to allow
undocumented workers in agriculture and service sectors -- along with their
immediate family members -- to remain in the United States as long as they pay
fines for being here illegally, learn English, undergo background checks and pay
taxes. The fines would go to fund the program.

This is not a bad idea. It's simple and practical, and yet likely to have a
positive effect on the state economy. It is steeped in common sense, and puts
solutions ahead of ideology. In addition, it has the potential to improve
people's lives in a real and meaningful way, instead of just giving politicians
more to argue about.

In other words, it doesn't stand a chance. Call me cynical, but I think this
bill will never make it through the California Legislature. As I told Perez, the
fiercest opponents are likely to come from within his own party. In the Golden
State, Democrats control both chambers of the Legislature, the governor's
office, and most statewide offices. If they want a bill to become law, it will.
If they don't, it won't. And when proposals are shot down, there's no sense in
blaming the Republicans who languish in the minority.

Here's the key. Guest worker programs inevitably are opposed by labor unions,
which are heavily allied with the Democratic Party and which peddle the fairy
tale that U.S. workers will do the jobs that now go to foreign laborers.

When it comes to immigration reform, Democrats need to understand they can't fix
the problem because they are the problem.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 26, 2012 Monday

East Bay same-sex couple fights deportation

BYLINE: By Jennifer Modenessi Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 786 words


Brian Willingham may have been able to prevent his husband Alfonso Garcia's
deportation for now, but the Orinda couple's fight against his expulsion is far
from over.

An immigration judge on Thursday postponed Garcia's removal to Mexico until
October. The move, done at the judge's discretion, would allow seven months for
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, or USCIS, to review the
marriage-based visa petition Willingham filed for his spouse earlier this year.

The problem is, their marriage isn't officially recognized because of the
Defense of Marriage Act. DOMA, a federal law passed in 1996, defines marriage as
the legal union of one man and one woman. While it has been called unfair by
President Barack Obama and ruled unconstitutional by judges, including San
Francisco U.S. District Court Judge Jeffrey White, it is still in effect.

So unlike opposite-sex binational couples facing deportation hearings,
Willingham, 37, and Garcia, 35 -- who wed in New York last year -- are not
allowed a postponement or termination of deportation proceedings to pursue a
green card for Garcia.

"There is an unlimited number of visas available for husbands and wives of U.S.
citizens," Willingham said, his arm around his spouse. "There is no quota or
limit on that -- unless you're gay."

The couple returns to court in October, when the judge and government attorney
will check in to see what's happened with their marriage-based petition.

If laws change before then, the petition may be approved and a green card
granted for Garcia, Willingham said. Or the government could hold it in
abeyance, which means they would neither approve nor deny it.

"It's the same kind of petition that any American citizen would file," said the
couple's attorney, Lavi Soloway. "Our objective is for Brian and Alfonso to be
treated the same way as other couples in this situation would be treated."

If Garcia is deported, he will not be able to return legally to the United
States for 10 years.

Since being brought to the United States by his parents from Michoacan, Mexico,
when he was 14, Garcia has called the East Bay home.

He lives with Willingham and their dog Maggie in a former hunting cabin in the
East Bay hills. Tucked away from the hustle and bustle of urban sprawl, their
peaceful refuge is a far cry from a Dublin jail where Garcia found himself last
year after a routine traffic stop.

Pulled over on the Bay Bridge for excessive speed, Garcia was fingerprinted.
Within hours, he'd been placed on an immigration hold. Although his sister, a
U.S. citizen, had filed a petition for Garcia's green card more than a decade
ago, his paperwork has languished in a system that considers applications made
by family members a low priority.

With little explanation, he was taken to jail in Oakland before being
transferred to Santa Rita Jail. He tried to sleep by positioning himself under
security cameras and was transferred to solitary confinement for his safety.

The imprisonment also took a toll on Willingham, whose voice broke recalling
Garcia, hungry from missing so many meals due to constant transfers, being given
a small orange and eating it, peel and all.

Garcia was then shipped to San Francisco, where he saw his spouse for 10 minutes
and was soon flown to a detention facility in Arizona. He was released a few
weeks later. Willingham found him near a Greyhound station.

They spent several weeks trying to get back to normal, then joined Stop The
Deportations -- The DOMA Project, an advocacy group cofounded by their attorney
to help raise awareness about what they and others are going through. "It's like
they've set up two systems of government," Willingham said about their legal
plight. "One for opposite-sex couples and one for same-sex couples."

But he realizes they are not the only ones facing these hurdles. Thousands of
gay binational couples are living together in the United States.

"We might be the people on the news this week going through this issue, but
there are about 40,000 couples who face this same issue," he said.

Amos Lim, co-founder of Out4Immigration, a volunteer group tackling immigration
laws and their effects on the LGBT community, said cases similar to Willingham
and Garcia's have been dropped, but it's been at the discretion of prosecutors
and judges. Many same-sex binational couples leave the country or maintain
long-term relationships, visiting each other once a year. Things haven't
changed, Lim said, and people's lives continue to be torn apart.

While Willingham acknowledged that there are many other benefits denied to
same-sex spouses, right now he's only concerned about one -- a visa for his
husband.

"All we're asking for," he said, "is equal treatment like any married couple."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

Many Bay Area deportation cases will be dropped in June

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 769 words


The federal government will begin closing hundreds of Bay Area deportation cases
in June, allowing some illegal immigrants a partial reprieve if they have strong
community ties and no criminal record.

The Executive Office for Immigration Review this summer will suspend the daily
schedule of the San Francisco immigration court, one of the busiest in the
nation, to allow a team of federal attorneys to scour the entire caseload for
low-priority deportation cases to drop, according to a statement from the
Department of Homeland Security obtained by this newspaper.

Among those who could benefit from the court review are students brought to the
United States illegally at a young age who are otherwise upstanding residents.
Although their deportation cases will be halted, the reprieve does not grant
them legal residency or citizenship and authorities have the ability to seek
their deportation later.

Following up on a six-week pilot program in Baltimore and Denver, immigration
authorities will begin suspending cases at immigration courts across the
country.

Of more than 11,000 cases reviewed in the pilot program, judges dropped about 16
percent in Denver and about 10 percent in Baltimore.

The San Francisco court alone has about 17,000 pending cases.

"San Francisco has one of the biggest caseloads in the country," said private
immigration lawyer Randall Caudle.

"It forces them to pull all the pending cases and review them. That could be a
little chaotic."

But some private lawyers say many of those most likely to have their cases
closed would be better off trying to get a full immigration hearing.

"It's not a solution just to take somebody and tell them we're going to put your
case on hold," said Laura Lichter, incoming president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, which met with federal authorities about the
court reviews Thursday.

"I've got a real concern about people trying to really rocket through this
procedure." Lichter defends immigrant clients in Denver and said only the
clearest cases were closed.

"It's the people who have the middling cases, who aren't likely to win,
otherwise good people, they should be taken off the top and they're not," she
said. "They're just normal people trying to work and support their families."

Some judges will be reassigned to hear the cases of detained immigrants.
Attorneys from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, will devote time to
reviewing backlogged cases, administratively closing low-level cases and
pursuing those they consider more serious.

The program will begin late April in Detroit, New Orleans, Orlando and Seattle.
It will move to New York City in May, San Francisco in June and Los Angeles in
July, according to the statement and lawyers briefed on the process.

Smaller courts will shut down their regular schedules for two weeks for the
review, and larger courts will devote some judges to the review and others to
their regular caseload.

The Republican chairman of the House Judiciary Committee criticized the
court-by-court review Thursday, saying it rewards lawbreakers by allowing them
to remain here.

"The Obama administration's decision to expand its backdoor amnesty plan to
cities across the United States endangers Americans and insults law enforcement
officials," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, in a prepared statement.

The Obama administration has deported a record 397,000 people last year -- but
deportation filings dropped by a third in the last quarter of 2011 from the same
time in 2010, according to records obtained by New York-based Transactions
Records Access Clearinghouse.

The "substantial drop" partly resulted, public records researchers believe, from
ICE Director John Morton's June 2011 memo ordering his agents to use more
discretion in whom they choose to deport.

The Obama administration also announced in August that it would review all
300,000 pending deportation cases to target criminals, public safety dangers and
egregious violators of immigration law.

Caudle said some government immigration lawyers in the Bay Area have begun
closing or terminating sympathetic cases on their own, something that would
rarely have happened a year ago.

"It looks like the ICE attorneys here are at least trying to exercise
discretion," he said.

San Francisco immigration attorney Mark Silverman said one rationale for showing
more discretion and closing low-priority cases is to save money and resources.
Another motivation is political.

"Clearly the administration is trying to show they're doing something for
immigrants because there's a lot of disenchantment with the Obama
administration," Silverman said.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers arrest suspected illegal
immigrants in Santa Ana, Calif., 2007. (AP Photo/Mark Avery)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday

Supreme Court to hear Arizona immigration case this week

BYLINE: By Michael Doyle McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: POLITICS; Crime; News; National

LENGTH: 569 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigration politics will hit the Supreme Court this week as
justices consider how much border-control clout the states can deploy.

The court must decide whether Arizona went too far with a crackdown that
includes ordering police to routinely check the legal residency status of people
they stop. The court's ruling answer this election year could ignite Capitol
Hill, other states and, especially, Hispanic voters.

"This is a huge case, of great importance," said Andrew I. Schoenholtz, a
visiting professor of law at the Georgetown University Law Center.

Arizona v. United States, the case being heard Wednesday, carries well beyond
the notoriously porous Southwest border. South Carolina, Idaho, Florida and 13
other states have allied themselves with Arizona, arguing for the power to
impose certain immigration measures if they choose. House Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi and 16 other House Democrats from California take the opposite position.
On both sides, dozens of friend-of-the-court briefs press different points.

The court's decision is likely to come in June, as the campaign season is
heating up and about the same time as the court is expected to rule on the Obama
administration's signature health care law. While a decision to uphold the
strict Arizona law would be a legal defeat for the Obama administration, some
scholars predict it could help the president politically by boosting turnout
among the nation's 21 million voting-age Hispanics.

"Fear is a remarkable mobilizer," said Gary Segura, a Stanford University
pollster and political science professor.

Citing failures by Congress to deal effectively with immigration and the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States, Arizona
legislators included several far-reaching provisions in the 2010 law. The most
controversial, and the one that may cause the court the most difficulty, deals
with checking U.S. residency status.

Under the Arizona law, police who detain people for other reasons must check
their residency status if the officers have a "reasonable suspicion" that they
are illegal immigrants. When someone is arrested, residency status must be
confirmed before the person is released.

The law also makes it a state crime to be in the United States without
authorization, as well as a state crime for an illegal immigrant to work or seek
work without authorization.

The Supreme Court, in a 5-3 decision last year, upheld a separate Arizona
provision that suspends or revokes the business licenses of employers that
knowingly hire illegal immigrants.

Some states and localities have become very aggressive. Alabama legislators last
year passed a law that bans illegal immigrants from attending the state's public
colleges and universities, requires elementary schools to check their students'
residency status and bans illegal immigrants from renting property, among other
provisions.

Justice Elena Kagan will not participate as her former solicitor general's
office colleagues try to block Arizona's law. If the eight remaining justices
are deadlocked, the 9th I.S. Circuit Court of Appeals decision striking down the
Arizona provisions would prevail, although no national precedent would be set.

The hourlong oral argument in the Arizona immigration case is the last one
scheduled for the Supreme Court term that began last October. Justices usually
deliver their final opinions in the last week of June.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Mercury News editorial: Obama's new immigration policy -- Dream Act lite -- is a
step forward

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 438 words


President Barack Obama's announcement Friday that his administration would, in
the spirit of the Dream Act, stop deporting some young immigrants was sensible,
compassionate, fiscally responsible and long overdue.

His opponents, predictably, went berserk. But Republicans have blocked the Dream
Act in Congress, and the president was right to use his authority to provide
some help to young people who are American in every sense but on paper.

The new policy does not grant a path to citizenship, as the Dream Act would do.
However, it allows those younger than 30 who were brought here illegally as
children to avoid deportation and to apply for a work permit. The new rules
apply only to those who have been here five years or more, have no criminal
record and are in school, have a high school diploma or have served in the
military.

This is certainly good politics for the president, who has struggled to explain
to Latinos and other voting blocs his failure to make immigration reform a
priority. But more important, it is the right thing to do -- both for the
individuals caught in a legal limbo and for the country as a whole.

These young people had no choice in coming to the United States, and it's beyond
cruel to send them back to a country with which many have no connection.

This policy will help the country hold onto the best and brightest immigrants --
those who have worked hard for an education or are sacrificing to serve in the
military. Our nation needs them, as Obama put it in his Rose Garden statement
Friday, "to staff our labs, start new businesses and defend our country."

Using scarce tax dollars to deport them is utterly senseless.

There is no way the federal government could round up the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in this country and send them back to their homelands.
Giving prosecutors the authority to not pursue deportation of young people
educated in America leaves more resources for deporting criminals. It's smart
policy in a time of constrained resources.

As many as 800,000 immigrants may be eligible to take advantage of this,
although it's unclear how many will. If Mitt Romney is elected, he could easily
rescind Obama's order come January, so some may be fearful of coming forward
now.

Obama's announcement also should increase the pressure on Congress to end the
Republican filibuster and send the Dream Act to the president's desk. As Obama
put it, "These kids deserve to plan their lives in more than two-year
increments."

There's no real hope of that happening before November. But for now,
undocumented youths and their families at least know somebody in Washington
cares.



LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lorena Tule-Romain, right, tries to hold back tears of joy, as Ramiro
Luna talks to the media following the announcement by President Barack Obama
that his administration will stop deporting and begin giving work permits to
younger illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children and have since led
law-abiding lives. Luna and Tule-Romain, and other Dream Team members and
supporters, gathered at the offices of Domingo Garcia in Dallas, Texas, Friday,
June 15, 2012. (Brad Loper/Dallas Morning News/MCT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Contra Costa Times editorial: Obama's new immigration policy -- Dream Act lite
-- is a step forward

BYLINE: Contra Costa Times Editorial

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


President Barack Obama's announcement Friday that his administration would, in
the spirit of the Dream Act, stop deporting some young immigrants was sensible,
compassionate, fiscally responsible and long overdue.

His opponents, predictably, went berserk. But Republicans have blocked the Dream
Act in Congress, and the president was right to use his authority to provide
some help to young people who are American in every sense but on paper.

The new policy does not grant a path to citizenship, as the Dream Act would do.
However, it allows those younger than 30 who were brought here illegally as
children to avoid deportation and to apply for a work permit. The new rules
apply only to those who have been here five years or more, have no criminal
record and are in school, have a high school diploma or have served in the
military.

This is certainly good politics for the president, who has struggled to explain
to Latinos and other voting blocs his failure to make immigration reform a
priority. But more important, it is the right thing to do -- both for the
individuals caught in a legal limbo and for the country as a whole.

These young people had no choice in coming to the United States, and it's beyond
cruel to send them back to a country with which many have no connection.

This policy will help the country hold onto the best and brightest immigrants --
those who have worked hard for an education or are sacrificing to serve in the
military. Our nation needs them, as Obama put it in his Rose Garden statement
Friday, "to staff our labs, start new businesses and defend our country."

Using scarce tax dollars to deport them is utterly senseless.

There is no way the federal government could round up the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in this country and send them back to their homelands.
Giving prosecutors the authority to not pursue deportation of young people
educated in America leaves more resources for deporting criminals. It's smart
policy in a time of constrained resources.

As many as 800,000 immigrants may be eligible to take advantage of this,
although it's unclear how many will. If Mitt Romney is elected, he could easily
rescind Obama's order come January, so some may be fearful of coming forward
now.

Obama's announcement also should increase the pressure on Congress to end the
Republican filibuster and send the Dream Act to the president's desk. As Obama
put it, "These kids deserve to plan their lives in more than two-year
increments."

There's no real hope of that happening before November. But for now,
undocumented youths and their families at least know somebody in Washington
cares.



LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Oakland Tribune editorial: Obama's new immigration policy -- Dream Act lite --
is a step forward

BYLINE: Oakland Tribune Editorial

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


President Barack Obama's announcement Friday that his administration would, in
the spirit of the Dream Act, stop deporting some young immigrants was sensible,
compassionate, fiscally responsible and long overdue.

His opponents, predictably, went berserk. But Republicans have blocked the Dream
Act in Congress, and the president was right to use his authority to provide
some help to young people who are American in every sense but on paper.

The new policy does not grant a path to citizenship, as the Dream Act would do.
However, it allows those younger than 30 who were brought here illegally as
children to avoid deportation and to apply for a work permit. The new rules
apply only to those who have been here five years or more, have no criminal
record and are in school, have a high school diploma or have served in the
military.

This is certainly good politics for the president, who has struggled to explain
to Latinos and other voting blocs his failure to make immigration reform a
priority. But more important, it is the right thing to do -- both for the
individuals caught in a legal limbo and for the country as a whole.

These young people had no choice in coming to the United States, and it's beyond
cruel to send them back to a country with which many have no connection.

This policy will help the country hold onto the best and brightest immigrants --
those who have worked hard for an education or are sacrificing to serve in the
military. Our nation needs them, as Obama put it in his Rose Garden statement
Friday, "to staff our labs, start new businesses and defend our country."

Using scarce tax dollars to deport them is utterly senseless.

There is no way the federal government could round up the estimated 12 million
undocumented immigrants in this country and send them back to their homelands.
Giving prosecutors the authority to not pursue deportation of young people
educated in America leaves more resources for deporting criminals. It's smart
policy in a time of constrained resources.

As many as 800,000 immigrants may be eligible to take advantage of this,
although it's unclear how many will. If Mitt Romney is elected, he could easily
rescind Obama's order come January, so some may be fearful of coming forward
now.

Obama's announcement also should increase the pressure on Congress to end the
Republican filibuster and send the Dream Act to the president's desk. As Obama
put it, "These kids deserve to plan their lives in more than two-year
increments."

There's no real hope of that happening before November. But for now,
undocumented youths and their families at least know somebody in Washington
cares.



LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday

Hayward woman's deportation delayed at last minute

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


A Hayward woman who says she was raped in El Salvador persuaded federal
officials Thursday to halt her deportation to the Central American country after
a public outcry.

Federal immigration agents tracked down Blanca Medina in December, five years
after she skipped a 2006 immigration court hearing in South Texas. She was due
to be deported early Friday morning but the Department of Homeland Security is
now asking a judge to reopen her case.

The last-minute turnaround came after her attorney set up an online petition
that he says drew some 118,000 signatures supporting her plea for political
asylum in the United States.

"We're just asking for a day in court," said the lawyer, Matthew Muller.

A rule prohibits immigrants from making asylum claims 180 days after missing a
court hearing. Muller says even convicted felons and terrorists get more leeway
in blocking deportation to countries where they have "reasonable fear" their
lives are in danger.

Federal agents had said Medina missed her chance. U.S. Border Patrol agents
arrested her near the Texas-Mexico border in 2005 and she was ordered to appear
before an immigration judge in 2006.

"In the ensuing five years, there is no indication Ms. Medina contacted the
immigration court or filed an application for an immigration benefit to seek
redress in her case," said spokeswoman Virginia Kice of U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, in a written statement.

Medina declined to be interviewed this week, but the housekeeper says in court
documents that she fears returning to El Salvador after four violent rapes by
different men.

She was raped a fifth time in Mexico while being smuggled into Texas and suffers
from post-traumatic stress disorder that contributed to her missing the court
hearing, Muller said.

"It is a medical condition, it's not just a bald assertion people make," he
said. "It's hard for her to conceive of returning to that country."

Kice said the government considers Medina a deportation priority because she's
an "immigration fugitive," someone who has ignored a judge's deportation order.
Immigration judges last year ordered more than 24,000 people deported "in
absentia" after they failed to show up at hearings.

The 30-year-old Salvadoran did not qualify for a new Obama administration
deportation relief directive protecting young illegal immigrants from getting
expelled from the United States because she crossed the border as an adult, not
a child. Nor did she qualify for earlier relief directives that exclude people
deemed immigration fugitives.

The immigration agency held her as a flight risk in West County Jail in Richmond
for several weeks in May, but Medina returned home to Hayward with her husband
and 5-year-old daughter, a U.S. citizen. Then she was ordered to bring her
luggage to San Francisco International Airport late Thursday for deportation.

ICE officials asked Thursday to reopen her case after Muller brought thousands
of petition signatures to their San Francisco office. The decision is in the
hands of the Texas immigration judge who originally signed her deported order.
That judge is likely to hand the case over to the San Francisco court, Muller
said, and for now the deportation is delayed.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Charles Krauthammer: Obama's imperial presidency, revisited

BYLINE: By Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 640 words


WASHINGTON -- Though overshadowed by the shocking Supreme Court decision on
health care, the court's Arizona immigration decision, issued three days
earlier, remains far more significant than appreciated. It was generally viewed
as mixed or ambiguous because the Justice Department succeeded in striking down
three of the law's provisions. However, regarding the law's central and most
controversial element -- requiring officers to inquire into the immigration
status of anyone picked up for some other violation -- the ruling was
definitive, indeed unanimous.

No liberal-conservative divide here. Not a single justice found merit in the
administration's claim that this "show me your papers" provision constituted an
impermissible pre-emption of federal authority.

On what grounds unconstitutional? Presumably because state officials would be
asking about the immigration status of all, rather than adhering to the federal
enforcement priorities regarding which illegal aliens would not be subject to
deportation.

For example, under the Obama administration's newly promulgated regulations,
there'll be no more deportation of young people brought here illegally as
children (and meeting certain chronological criteria). Presumably, therefore,
the Arizona law is invalid because an officer might be looking into the status
of a young person the feds now classify as here legally.

Beyond being logically ridiculous, this argument is ''an astounding assertion of
federal executive power," wrote Justice Samuel Alito in a concurrence. The Obama
Justice Department is suggesting that ''a state law may be pre-empted, not
because it conflicts with a federal statute or regulation, but because it is
inconsistent with a federal agency's current enforcement priorities. Those
priorities, however, are not law. They are nothing more than agency policy."

And there's the rub: the Obama administration's inability to distinguish policy
from law. This becomes particularly perverse regarding immigration when, as
Justice Antonin Scalia points out, what the administration delicately calls its
priorities is quite simply a determination not to enforce the law as passed.

This is what makes so egregious the Obama claim that Arizona is impermissibly
undermining federal law. "To say, as the court does," writes Scalia regarding
those parts of the law struck down by the majority, "that Arizona contradicts
federal law by enforcing applications of the Immigration Act that the president
declines to enforce boggles the mind."

Consider this breathtaking cascade: An administration violates its
constitutional duty to execute the law by deliberately refusing to enforce it.
It then characterizes its nonenforcement as simply establishing priorities. It
then tries to strike down a state law on immigration on the grounds that it
contradicts federal law -- by actually trying to enforce it!

The logic is circular, oxymoronic and the very definition of executive
overreach. During the Bush-43 years, we were repeatedly treated to
garment-rending about the imperial presidency, to major hyperventilation about
the ''unitary executive." Yet the current administration's imperiousness has
earned little comparable attention.

Obama adopts a policy of major nonenforcement of the immigration law -- a
variant of the very Dream Act he could not get through even a Democratic
Congress -- and promulgates it unilaterally, while his Justice Department claims
the right to invalidate state laws that might in some way impinge on that very
nonenforcement.

The Republican presidential campaign centers on the ineffectiveness of this
administration: failure at home, passivity abroad. A fine electoral strategy.
But as citizens we should be grateful. Given the administration's extravagant
ambitions, incompetence is its saving grace.

Charles Krauthammer is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this March 8, 2012 file phoo, Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia
speaks at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn. Scalia drew unusually
critical attention during this past Supreme Court term for comments he made in
court and in his writing that seemed to some more political than judicial. (AP
Photo/Jessica Hill, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

California's 'Trust Act' bill limiting deportations

BYLINE: Bay Area News Group staff

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; State

LENGTH: 377 words


Limiting local deportation actions

The state Senate and Assembly have passed a first-in-the-nation measure that
would limit local law enforcers' compliance with federal immigration rules
requiring them to report to immigration authorities all arrested people
suspected as illegal immigrants.
After Senate approval Thursday, final Assembly approval is expected in August,
which would send the measure to Gov. Jerry Brown's desk.
AB-1081, "The Trust Act," declares that the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement's reliance on local law enforcers to detain illegal immigrant
suspects for deportation review:
Shifts a federal responsibility to local police, "undercutting community
policing strategies" Drains local resources because the federal government does
not pay the full cost of detaining suspects Requires no warrant, proof or
probable cause and have been wrongly placed on U.S. citizens. Harms community
policing because immigrant residents who are crime victims or witnesses are less
likely to report crimes or cooperate with police when that could result in their
deportation.

The legislation would require that:

n No one shall be detained on the basis of an immigration hold after becoming
eligible for release from criminal custody, unless, both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
The individual has been convicted of a serious or violent felony, according to a
criminal background check or documentation provided by U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, and The continued detention on an immigration hold would
not violate any federal, state, or local law, or any local policy.

It also would require any local government detaining a person on an immigration
hold to adopt a plan guarding against:
Detaining a U.S. citizen, Racial profiling, and Discouraging crime victims and
witnesses from reporting crimes.

Legislation sponsors:

Introduced by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, and co-sponsored by
Democratic Assembly members Luis Alejo, Salinas; Susan Bonilla, Concord; Gilbert
Cedillo, Los Angeles; Mike Eng, West Hollywood; William Monning, Santa Cruz; V.
Manuel Perez, Indio; Nancy Skinner, Oakland; and Yoriko Yamada, Vacaville; and
Democratic state Senators Ron Calderon, Montebello; Loni Hancock, Oakland; and
Leland Yee, San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday

Interactive map: Young illegal immigrants in U.S. who could benefit from new
Obama immigration policy

SECTION: POLITICS; News

LENGTH: 124 words


More than 1 million immigrants who are younger than 31 and were brought to the
country illegally when they were children could immediately qualify for
two-year, renewable work permits and protection from being deported when a new
policy takes effect Aug.15.

That includes 46,000 in the Bay Area and another 19,000 here who are children
younger than 15 who could benefit when they grow older, according to the
estimates by the Immigration Policy Center, an advocacy and research group based
in Washington, D.C.

View number of potential beneficiaries based on current congressional districts.

Related: 65,000 Bay Area immigrants could benefit from deportation policy, study
states
Data Center: Number and origin of immigrants eligible for work permits

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Contra Costa: Rep. Miller to host DREAMERS Deferred Action Summit at DVC

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 157 words


PLEASANT HILL -- Those interested in applying for protection from deportation
under a new immigration relief program are invited to attend a DREAMERS:
Deferred Action Summit on Saturday at Diablo Valley College.

Rep. George Miller, D-Martinez, will host the event, which will include resource
tables and assistance for applicants from federal immigration officials. The
Immigration Policy Center estimates 5,300 immigrants in Miller's 7th
Congressional District will be eligible to apply for the deferred action for
childhood arrivals status immediately, according to a news release.

The event is from 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. Saturday in The Forum, near free parking
lot 3 at the college, 321 Golf Club Road in Pleasant Hill. The program is from
11 a.m. to noon.

Optional reservations or more information are available by calling 510-262-6500
or by visitinggeorgemiller.house.gov/dreamers . Additional details are
atwww.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals .

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Mike Honda: U.S. must push forward with progress on immigration

BYLINE: By Mike Honda Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 695 words


This week, America's immigrant youth come forward to apply for a two-year
renewable stay of deportation and work authorization, known as "deferred
action." As a result of President Barack Obama's administrative decision to
provide deferred action to high-achieving and hardworking immigrant youth, an
estimated 1.7 million undocumented young people will benefit, including over
104,000 Asian and Pacific Islanders. In California, that means approximately
412,560 bright young immigrants are eligible, more than any other state.

While deferred action does not provide a road map to legal residency or
citizenship, we must use this is a steppingstone to build support for
comprehensive immigration reform.

Why? First, our country has failed to tackle comprehensive immigration reform
for over a decade, and misguided policies among states are proliferating,
leaving a large segment of the immigrant community in dire straits. Congress has
the moral and political imperative to avoid patchwork state measures and act
swiftly. We must reform our nation's broken immigration system in a fair and
sensible way, for our communities, our businesses and our security. The deferred
action policy starts us in that direction. Later will come the reunification of
families, an end to discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender immigrants and families, and the reduction of backlogs.

Second, we must recognize the American spirit of entrepreneurialism and
opportunity represented in those creating the groundswell for deferred action.
Immigrant youth mobilized a vision and put a human face to immigration. From
campaign organizing, "coming out" rallies and sit-ins, to promoting legislation,
providing resources and halting the deportation of deferred-action-eligible
youth, they mobilized communities and exposed the realities of the immigrant
story. Thanks to their efforts, deferred action offers organizers some relief in
the fight for a broader reform package that includes loved ones ineligible for
deferment.

Third, the deferred action policy offers a glimpse of the potential possible
after passing the related, but more comprehensive, Development, Relief and
Education of Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, bipartisan legislation that failed to
pass in 2010. It would have granted a conditional six-year path to legal,
permanent U.S. residence for immigrant youth brought here as children (some of
the youth eligible for deferred action). Specifically, the bill applies to youth
who completed high school, demonstrated good moral character and completed at
least two years of higher education or U.S. military service. Congress missed an
opportunity here because the economic benefits to passing DREAM are notable,
especially amid austerity budgeting.

If Congress goes beyond deferred action and passes the DREAM Act, it will
convert these undocumented students into a taxpayers who will contribute
trillions of dollars to our economy. Their earning power over the next 40 years
is $3.6 trillion, according to the University of California at Los Angeles.
While deferred action policy falls short of the DREAM Act, we will still witness
the productive contributions of young immigrants. Deferred action beneficiaries
will use their work authorization and college degrees, tenacity, creativity, and
innovation to make our economy stronger. America taught them that education and
hard work are vehicles for overcoming a life in the shadows. Let's not go back
on that promise.

This is a momentous week for immigration reform advocates in Congress. We will
work with President Obama to ensure successful implementation of the deferred
action program. Wednesday marks a significant and emotional day for undocumented
youth. Their perseverance in bringing immigration reform to the forefront of the
legislative agenda is inspiring. As a nation we are taking a step forward in a
collective fight for immigration reform that respects the dignity of immigrant
communities and recognizes their contributions to making our country great.

Mike Honda, D-Campbell, represents the 15th Congressional District in the U.S.
House of Representatives. He wrote this article for this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hayley Arana, 2, stands with hundreds of people and her mother Cynthia
Diaz in hopes to get a passport for her mother, Tuesday, Aug. 14, 2012, in
Houston. Diaz is applying for a Passport, Arana was born in the U.S., and hopes
for the DREAM Act to pass so she can become a U.S. citizen. (AP Photo/Houston
Chronicle, Nick de la Torre)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Santa Clara sheriff wades into Capitol immigration debate

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; State

LENGTH: 523 words


Taking an immigration stance at odds with most other California sheriffs, Santa
Clara Sheriff Laurie Smith has urged Gov. Jerry Brown to sign a bill that would
permit jailing immigrants for deportation only if they are charged with serious
crimes.

In an Aug. 23 letter to Brown made public Wednesday, Smith endorsed an immigrant
rights bill that has ired her counterparts in the California State Sheriffs'
Association.

The Trust Act -- AB 1081 -- would prohibit police from holding legal and illegal
immigrants at jails for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement unless they are
charged with serious or violent felonies. Approved last week by both houses of
the Legislature, the bill sponsored by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco,
would counteract the federal Secure Communities program that alerts federal
agents whenever local police book a deportable immigrant.

Smith said in the letter that Secure Communities has "diminished trust" of
police that Ammiano's bill would help restore.

"Immigrant victims and witnesses of crime have told me they are afraid to come
forward to cooperate with local law enforcement," Smith wrote. She said
government statistics show that 69 percent of those deported through the program
have been "noncriminals" or people convicted of traffic violations and other
low-level crimes.

About 80,000 people have been deported from California through Secure
Communities since Brown, as attorney general, signed the state-federal
partnership in 2009.

Several hundred immigrant rights activists in Sacramento on Tuesday called on
Brown to support the bill, which he has until Sept. 30 to sign.

Most of California's 58 sheriffs, who run the county jails, support the federal
partnership and want Ammiano's bill vetoed.

"We are actively, unalterably and vigorously opposed," said Nick Warner, a
spokesman for the sheriff association. "It has constitutionally elected and
sworn peace officers ignoring law and policy requests from the federal
government."

Warner said he was unaware Wednesday of Smith's position and did not know of her
letter.

Smith did not return a call and email seeking comment Wednesday. She is one of
several sheriffs attending a conference this week at Placer County's Squaw
Valley hosted by the sheriffs' association, said Santa Clara County Sheriff's
Sgt. Jose Cardoza.

"I'm sure that individual sheriffs probably have a variety of opinions," said
Marin County Sheriff Robert Doyle, who opposes the bill. "My opinion is I don't
think the state should be in the business of regulating immigration."

Santa Clara County became one of the only counties in the country to defy the
Secure Communities program last year when supervisors passed an ordinance to
refuse most requests by the federal government to hold deportable immigrants in
the County Jail.

Sheriff Smith had strongly opposed the ordinance, saying it went too far by
releasing even those with the most serious criminal records unless the federal
government paid for their detention. In contrast, the Trust Act, she wrote,
"allows local control and provides a mechanism to prevent serious felons from
being released" into the community.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith, October 2011. (Gary Reyes /
Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

New immigration laws help foreign entrepreneurs get a start

BYLINE: By Karl Baker The Seattle Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 725 words


SEATTLE -- In the 1920s, architects designed the 23-story art deco Exchange
Building in downtown Seattle to house a stock exchange. Those plans ended when
the U.S. stock market crashed in 1929.

More than 80 years later, the building will finally host an exchange company --
an online one. Denis Kiselev, an entrepreneur from Russia, is setting up shop
there with the help of a new U.S. immigration policy.

His startup company, SnapSwap, was able to sponsor his H-1B visa

"I was lucky because until recently only well-established companies like
Microsoft were able to sponsor working visas for employees," Kiselev said.
"Immigration opened a special door for startup companies."

SnapSwap will be a place to trade gaming currencies such as those used in the
virtual economies of "World of Warcraft" and other multiplayer, online video
games.

"What we're doing is a trading platform, like the New York Stock Exchange for
games," said Kiselev.

Kiselev set up the business inside U.S. borders because the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS) agency last year eased visa restrictions on
immigrant entrepreneurs, but the road still isn't easy.

Tahmina Watson, a Seattle-based immigration lawyer, says that although immigrant
entrepreneurs can now get H-1B visas, it is extremely difficult for these
business owners to remain in the U.S. beyond the six years typically allowed.

She wants Congress to pass new legislation, called the Startup Act 2.0, which
she says would give immigrant entrepreneurs one path to permanent residency.

"It's desperately needed for the United States," she said. "(It's) the beginning
of addressing a group of immigrants that do not have a good-fit visa option."

A coalition consisting of U.S. Sens. Marco Rubio, R-Fla.; Chris Coons, D-Del.;
Jerry Moran, R-Kan.; and Mark Warner, D-Va., are sponsors of the act.

But John Miano, a fellow at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington,
D.C., says legislation like Startup Act 2.0 has not been properly thought out.

"A lot of (the startups) are going to fail. Then what are you going to do? Throw
them out?" he said. "We'd be better off making the business climate better for
people here."

At 47, Kiselev isn't new to the startup game.

While a financial consultant in Moscow the past five years, he dabbled as a
part-time tech entrepreneur.

He also worked at the Russian central bank during that country's shift away from
a communist economy in the 1990s.

"It was a kind of startup, because when I was hired for the central bank it was
an age when the banking system in Russia was only developing," he said.

Kiselev came to Seattle at the end of February, initially on a short-term visa
to attend a four-month entrepreneurs workshop and mentoring program, organized
by a company called The Founder Institute.

Institute mentors rejected his first three ideas, so he came back with an idea
inspired by his son.

"He is 11 years old and he plays computer games. One day when I was trading at
my trading desk in Europe, he came to me and asked, 'Can I use your credit card
to buy gold?' " Kiselev said.

After a moment of confusion, Kiselev realized it wasn't the precious metal his
son was after, but the virtual gold used in the game "Diablo."

"I said you have your big account on the 'World of Warcraft,' there is plenty of
gold there, Go trade it from one game to another," Kiselev said.

But there was no company that provided a platform for gamers to trade this
virtual currency.

By June, Kiselev had raised $200,000 for the project, and with the move to a new
country with his wife and son behind him, he's aiming to launch SnapSwap in
October.

The long-term strategy, Kiselev said, is to convert his H-1B visa into permanent
residency.

Under current law, he can do that with what's called "a national interest
waiver."

On its website, the Citizenship and Immigration Services says that in order to
qualify for a national-interest waiver, an applicant must "have exceptional
ability" whose "employment would greatly benefit" the U.S.

Kiselev perceives the challenge through the lens of a financial analyst.

It's just another dimension of the uncertainty inherent in starting a business,
he said.

"This is a risk that I take as an entrepreneur," he said.

(Contact reporter Karl Baker:kbaker2@seattletimes.com )

(Distributed by Scripps Howard News Service,www.scrippsnews.com )

AP-WF-09-06-12 1752GMT

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

San Jose-based Mi Pueblo Foods threatened with boycott over immigration status
checks

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 250 words


The Bay Area's biggest Latino grocery chain is trying to avert a threatened
boycott after it began checking the immigration status of all its new hires
through a federal work-verification program.

"This is a decision that doesn't come easily," said spokeswoman Perla Rodriguez
of the 21-store Mi Pueblo Foods chain. "The immigrant community, that's the core
of who we are."

The company joined the E-Verify network a few weeks ago at the recommendation of
the Department of Homeland Security, which uses the database to inform companies
if their prospective employees are living and working in the country legally,
Rodriguez said.

It was a tough decision for the popular San Jose-based supermarket chain to join
the voluntary program but "as employers we don't make the laws, we have to abide
by them," Rodriguez said. She added that the immigration checks only affect new
hires, not existing employees.

A union that has been trying to organize the chain's 3,300 workers is planning
to protest Thursday morning outside the company's original San Jose store and
also threatening a customer boycott.

"I don't see what the benefit is to them, as an employer or a PR-type thing," to
check the immigration status of the mostly Latino workforce, said spokesman Mike
Henneberry of United Food and Commercial Workers Local 5. "It's voluntary. They
don't have to do it."

Founded in 1991 by Juvenal Chavez, a former Stanford University janitor, the
company now has stores from Vallejo to Salinas and the Central Valley.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

One-quarter of U.S. tech startups founded by immigrants, study finds

BYLINE: By Sarah McBride Reuters

SECTION: BREAKING; Technology; News; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 375 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- A new study showing that immigrants founded one quarter of U.S.
technology startup companies could fuel calls to relax immigration rules ahead
of next month's U.S. presidential elections, where the economy and immigration
are key issues.

The study "America's New Immigrant Entrepreneurs: Then and Now," shows that 24.3
percent of engineering and technology startup companies have at least one
immigrant founder serving in a key role.

The study paid particular attention to Silicon Valley, where it analyzed 335
engineering and technology start-ups. It found 43.9 percent were founded by at
least one immigrant.

"High-skilled immigrants will remain a critical asset for maintaining U.S.
competitiveness in the global economy," wrote the authors of the study,
sponsored by the Kauffman Foundation, a non-profit organization that promotes
entrepreneurship.

One of the authors, Singularity University's Vivek Wadhwa, called for a visa
designed for entrepreneurs.

"If we had a startup visa, we would have tens of thousands of new startups
nationwide," he said via email.

In recent years, the number of start-ups overall in Silicon Valley has
mushroomed, as entrepreneurs have found it easier to access "seed" or early
capital, the study found.

Those opposed to relaxing immigration rules, including many unions, argue that
immigrants displace higher-paid U.S. workers in key technology professions such
as software engineering.

And while many lawmakers support allowing more immigrant entrepreneurs into the
country, powerful Washington lobbies do not want to relax rules for one group
without addressing the broader issue of illegal immigration.

Immigration is a flashpoint among Hispanic voters, a key voting block that both
President Barack Obama and his Republican rival Mitt Romney are courting.

President Obama recently told TV network Univision he considers the lack of
comprehensive immigration reform his "biggest failure" during his first term in
office.

Romney has promised to put in place an immigration reform system and has said he
believes the Republican party is the "rightful home" of Hispanic voters.

Some 40 million people living in the U.S., or 13 percent of the population, were
born overseas, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A new U.S. citizen holds an American flag during a naturalization
ceremony beneath the Statue of Liberty during ceremonies marking the 125th
anniversary of the Statue at Liberty Island in New York, October 28, 2011.
REUTERS/Mike Segar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Oct. 4 Readers' letters: Immigration legislation veto, Yahoo CEO and candidate
ensorsements

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 814 words


Brown will lose immigrants' support

The action of Gov. Jerry Brown vetoing important pro-immigrant legislation
highlights two things. First, we immigrants and our allies should not consider
Democrats our natural allies. Passing legislation that improves the lives of
everyone, especially the most vulnerable, is viewed as a core value of
Democrats. Vetoing legislation like the Domestic Worker Rights Bill and the
Trust Act is not in line with so-called Democrat core values. Most important,
the veto highlights our commitment and power that we have to organizing our
community and push legislation all the way to the governor's desk. We will
continue organizing and win justice for all communities with values of love,
justice and righteousness!

Cesar Juarez

Community organizer San Jose

Elect Nai Hsueh to water district board

In light of the recent controversies involving the Santa Clara Valley Water
District Board of Directors, ranging from reckless spending at taxpayers'
expense to a grand jury investigation, it is time for new leadership. Nai Hsueh
is an ethical leader who will implement the changes needed to restore integrity,
credibility and fiscal responsibility to the water district board. She brings 31
years of experience and expertise with the water district, retiring as its chief
operating officer in 2009. With her commitment to environmental stewardship,
it's no surprise that she's endorsed by the Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra
Club. Nai represents the interests of the environment and the community, not
special interests. Vote Nai Hsueh for Santa Clara Valley Water District Board of
Directors.

Brian Conroy

Campbell

Yahoo CEO should stay at home a while

After giving birth to a baby boy (congratulations!), Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's new
CEO, plans to return to work within one or two weeks and in the meantime work
from home. Is that an indication of her dedication to her job and her incredible
energy and capabilities? Or is it a sign of poor judgment (work is more
important than a new baby at home), lack of confidence in her team to handle
matters without her (or worse, lack of a team that can handle matters without
her), or a belief that the company simply cannot function without her? Either
way, as a shareholder I would be worried; even in Silicon Valley, this is an
extreme example for out-of-whack work-life balance. Give your full attention to
your new son for a few weeks, Marissa. He, you and Yahoo will be better off.

Michael Weber

Sunnyvale

Proposition 37 deserves your vote

Thanks for debunking the false claims being made by the No on 37 campaign --
which is being bankrolled by the pesticide and junk-food industries.

While an attempt is made to falsely equate the campaigns, at careful inspection,
it becomes clear Proposition 37 proponents -- which would label genetically
engineered foods (GMOs) -- have been completely honest.

There is a growing body of research that links GMOs to a variety of potential
health risks, increased pesticide use, biodiversity loss, the emergence of
"super bugs" and "super weeds" and the unintentional contamination of
conventional crops.

Proposition 37 would simply provide a label -- as is required for 3,000 other
ingredients.

Should voters trust corporations with a long history of deception and
endangering public health, or Proposition 37 supporters like the American Public
Health Association, United Farm Workers, Sierra Club, California Nurses
Association and the Organic Consumers Association?

Vote yes on 37.

Tarah Locke

Santa Cruz

Stop the cycle of political payback

If Mitt Romney wins the presidency, will Democratic legislators make denying him
a second term their top priority, bringing the federal government to a
screeching halt for another four years? And if they are successful in 2016, how
long does it go on? Rewarding either party for such a strategy is unthinkable.
This has to be nipped in the bud.

William Gascoyne

San Jose

Put Bonnie Mace on Evergreen board

I am supporting Bonnie Mace's candidacy for the Evergreen Elementary School
Board because our board needs leaders focused on what is right for our children.
Our board needs members who are in touch with the community. Our board needs
people who bring everyone together with practical and collaborative solutions
for improving our children's education.

Bonnie Mace is such a person.

Bonnie has more than a decade of community service experience, which she will
use to ensure that the board's decisions reflect the thinking of our community.
She will put kids first and work tirelessly to ensure that Evergreen's students
get the quality education they deserve. Bonnie will be an outstanding steward of
our district's financial resources and will help expand community partnerships
to bring additional funding into our district.

Bonnie Mace has my wholehearted support. Vote for Bonnie Mace for Evergreen
School Board on Nov. 6.

Pat Waite

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Immigration a wedge between Obama, Romney

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 1253 words


California has almost as many immigrants as swing-state Ohio has people -- more
than 10 million. So the way the president implements immigration policy over the
next four years could have a profound impact on families around the state.

President Barack Obama and GOP opponent Mitt Romney agree on one thing: The
United States is a "nation of immigrants." But as last week's fiery presidential
debate drove home, the two candidates have clear differences in how they would
deal with a Byzantine immigration system that both welcomes and deports hundreds
of thousands of people each year.

"Comprehensive immigration reform" through federal legislation has been debated
for so long that many political skeptics doubt it will ever happen. So
increasingly, the sometimes unilateral role the president plays in creating
immigration policy is emerging as the most salient issue to many immigrants.

Presidents can do a lot on the immigration front even if Congress refuses to
take up the issue of comprehensive reform, said Pratheepan Gulasekaram, a
professor at Santa Clara University School of Law.

The Obama administration, for instance, has "far outstripped its predecessors in
terms of year-on-year deportations," Gulasekaram said. It has also, however,
used its executive discretion to do something no president has ever done before:
grant deportation relief to a whole class of illegal immigrants who are 30 or
younger.

Ju Hong is one of those immigrants. The 22-year-old UC Berkeley graduate is one
of an estimated 350,000 young illegal immigrants in California eligible to apply
for the new "deferred action" program, which grants two-year work permits and
protection from deportation.

In the heat of the campaign, Democrats have pointed to the program as a
compassionate temporary solution exposing the need for immigration reform amid
partisan gridlock. And they've tried to paint Romney as an extremist for linking
himself to the movement that strives to make illegal immigrants "self-deport" by
depriving them of benefits and liberties.

Republicans, in turn, have portrayed Obama as an opportunist for failing to
achieve the reforms he promised Latinos in 2008 and then offering the sudden
relief measure just months before the Nov. 6 election.

Hong is enthusiastic about his pending relief from a decade-long fear of
deportation, but he's also frustrated that Obama deported record numbers of
people during the past four years and failed to achieve broader reform.

Hong, who came from South Korea to the United States on a tourist visa with his
family when he was 11, worries about his mom and older sister, who are
ineligible for the youth-focused reprieve.

"Vote, because I can't" is the message he is sharing in online essays and with
everyone he knows. "I tell people my immigration story. There's always the
question, what can we do to help? And I say, 'Vote. Vote for someone who really
cares about immigrant communities.'"

But Hong admits that even if he could vote, he is too frustrated with both
presidential candidates and their parties to have a clear favorite in the
election.

For his part, Romney has pledged to honor the work permits granted by Obama, but
says he would discontinue the program as soon as he is inaugurated and work for
some kind of immigration reform in his first year. But he's also promised to
veto the Dream Act, an Obama-backed, once-bipartisan measure that would grant a
path to permanent residency and citizenship -- not just limbo status -- to
youths brought here in their childhood. At last week's presidential debate,
however, he said he would endorse a similar measure helping a smaller number of
young illegal immigrants who join the military.

Scared of Romney's rhetoric but unable to trust Democrats, Hong believes some
kind of humane reform could come under either an Obama or Romney presidency --
if immigrant communities fight hard enough.

Gulasekaram, for one, believes Obama's discretionary move made perfect sense. He
was one of nearly 100 law professors who urged Obama to issue the order just
weeks before the surprise June 15 announcement in the White House Rose Garden.

But John Yoo, a UC Berkeley law professor who worked for the Bush administration
and authored memos authorizing the use of harsh interrogation techniques on
suspected terrorists, called Obama's relief measure "a serious breach of
presidential duty" in a recent paper.

Such presidential orders are appropriate to protect national security, but not
to guide domestic policy, Yoo argued.

Illegal immigration has dropped sharply during the Obama administration, largely
for economic reasons. But Fremont resident Swati Vishwanathan believes the issue
continues to cloud what should be a much broader debate that includes policies
that hurt legal immigrants.

"I do have sympathies for people who are here in that difficult situation, but
that is irrelevant to our problem," said Vishwanathan, who has lived in the U.S.
on a temporary spousal visa since 2007 with her husband, a Dell worker, and
their young son. The family is waiting in a long line of Indian immigrants
seeking permanent U.S. residency.

"We just kept replaying the part" focusing on immigration in last week's
presidential debate, she said.

"We were just amazed by how President Obama and Mitt Romney kept skirting the
real issue," she said. "Neither of them had creative ideas about how to solve
the green-card logjam."

Romney has promised to seek more visas for highly educated workers and to enact
immigration reform in his first year. But, Vishwanathan said, his remarks might
be as much bluster as Obama's unrealized pledges from 2008 or Bush's bipartisan
immigration plan in 2000.

Still, Vishwanathan said, she's leaning toward favoring Romney.

But her opinion, she quickly added, won't make much of a difference. Like Hong
and more than half of California's immigrants, she cannot vote.

Dueling immigration views

Highlights of President Barack Obama's immigration plan:

Push Congress to pass the Dream Act, allowing a path to citizenship to illegal
immigrants who came to the U.S. as children.

Continue to grant temporary work permits and defer deportations of young illegal
immigrants.
Expand electronic verification of workers' immigration status.
Continue enforcement programs that have led to record-high deportations,
prioritizing the removal of "gangbangers" and other public safety threats.
Push Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform.
More information:www.barackobama.com/immigration


Highlights of Mitt Romney's immigration plan:


Get some kind of immigration reform done in his first year; proposals include
more visas for high-skilled workers and "stapling" green cards to advanced U.S.
degrees in science and math; lessening regulations on businesses that want to
hire seasonal agricultural workers; and completing Southwest border fence.
Promote "self-deportation" by making it difficult for illegal immigrants to get
work or public benefits.
Make electronic verification of immigration status mandatory for all employers.
Veto the Dream Act, if passed, but support a separate version offering path to
citizenship to young illegal immigrants who join the military.
Oppose general amnesty for the estimated 12 million immigrants living in the
U.S. here illegally.
Suspend Obama's 2012 "deferred action" reprieve for young illegal immigrants,
but honor the two-year work permits already granted.
Allow states such as Arizona to take immigration enforcement into their own
hands.
More information:http://www.mittromney.com/issues/immigration

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ju Hong poses for a photograph in Alameda, Calif., on Friday, Oct. 19,
2012. Hong is originally South Korea and a recent UC Berkley graduate applying
for deferred action. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Swati Vishwanathan and son Utkarsh Vishwanathan, 3, of Fremont, pose for a
photograph in Fremont, Calif., on Friday, Oct. 19, 2012. Vishwanathan is
originally from India and is here in the U.S. with her husband who has a H-1B
visa. (Anda Chu/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

Berkeley turns cold shoulder to ICE

BYLINE: By Judith Scherr Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words


BERKELEY -- The city's police will no longer hand prisoners over to federal
immigration authorities under an action approved Tuesday night.

The City Council voted unanimously not to respond to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement requests to take charge of Berkeley prisoners suspected of violating
federal immigration law.

"To our knowledge, this is the strongest language (opposing the policy) in the
country," said George Lippman, chairman of the city's Peace and Justice
Commission.

In adopting the new policy, the council turned down a proposal by Police Chief
Michael Meehan that would have raised the bar for turning suspects over to ICE.
Meehan wanted police to limit compliance with ICE requests to cases where the
jailed suspect -- either an adult or a minor -- was accused of a serious felony
and also had been convicted of a serious crime in the past.

The ICE program rejected by the council, known as Secure Communities, identifies
immigrants in U.S. jails who can be deported under immigration law. The program
depends on information shared among local and federal law enforcement agencies.

When Berkeley police make an arrest, they fingerprint the suspect and send the
prints to the county sheriff's office, which then forwards them to the FBI.

The FBI sends the prints to ICE, which determines, through an automated system,
whether to ask Berkeley police for custody of the suspect. ICE then expedites
deportation of many of these suspects.

Councilman Jesse Arreguin said handing suspects over to ICE goes against
principles long established in Berkeley. "The City Council's been on record for
two years, raising concerns about Secure Communities," he said, pointing to
council resolutions asking the state to opt out of the program and the Obama
administration to put an end to it.

"This is all consistent with the City of Refuge policy that says that our city
officials and police officers won't be involved in the enforcement of federal
immigration law," Arreguin said.

Nadia Kayyali of the Bill of Rights Defense Committee, addressed the council,
arguing that turning over suspects to ICE "throws out the notion that people are
innocent until proven guilty."

Berkeley's participation in Secure Communities over the past two years, has
resulted in turning over to ICE an average of two people each month. These are
often people police have picked up for crimes such as public intoxication or
minor drug or parole violations, according to National Lawyer's Guild Attorney
Sharon Adams, who obtained the information through a Freedom of Information
request.

Police Chief Meehan proposed the more restrictive policy, so that people
suspected of low level crimes would not be sent to ICE and face deportation, but
he defended the idea that Berkeley should cooperate with ICE with respect to
suspects accused of serious crimes.

"My own opinion is that law enforcement should not be party to immigration
enforcement, with the exception of dangerous people" he said. "That's why we've
tailored this policy so narrowly. My responsibility as chief is to make sure ...
that our efforts are focused on public safety. And I don't think it's in the
interest of public safety to release someone who has shown a propensity to go
out and hurt somebody, when we have the option to prevent that."

Council members pointed out that, in the end, the policy would be mostly
symbolic, since suspects generally spend little time in Berkeley jails and are
quickly moved to county facilities, where the sheriff fully cooperates with
federal immigration requests.

But Lippman and other activists at the council meeting said they're already
working on the county level to change policies there. "Berkeley won't stand
alone," Lippman said.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

Berkeley turns cold shoulder to ICE

BYLINE: By Judith Scherr Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words


BERKELEY -- The city's police will no longer hand prisoners over to federal
immigration authorities under an action approved Tuesday night.

The City Council voted unanimously not to respond to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement requests to take charge of Berkeley prisoners suspected of violating
federal immigration law.

"To our knowledge, this is the strongest language (opposing the policy) in the
country," said George Lippman, chairman of the city's Peace and Justice
Commission.

In adopting the new policy, the council turned down a proposal by Police Chief
Michael Meehan that would have raised the bar for turning suspects over to ICE.
Meehan wanted police to limit compliance with ICE requests to cases where the
jailed suspect -- either an adult or a minor -- was accused of a serious felony
and also had been convicted of a serious crime in the past.

The ICE program rejected by the council, known as Secure Communities, identifies
immigrants in U.S. jails who can be deported under immigration law. The program
depends on information shared among local and federal law enforcement agencies.

When Berkeley police make an arrest, they fingerprint the suspect and send the
prints to the county sheriff's office, which then forwards them to the FBI.

The FBI sends the prints to ICE, which determines, through an automated system,
whether to ask Berkeley police for custody of the suspect. ICE then expedites
deportation of many of these suspects.

Councilman Jesse Arreguin said handing suspects over to ICE goes against
principles long established in Berkeley. "The City Council's been on record for
two years, raising concerns about Secure Communities," he said, pointing to
council resolutions asking the state to opt out of the program and the Obama
administration to put an end to it.

"This is all consistent with the City of Refuge policy that says that our city
officials and police officers won't be involved in the enforcement of federal
immigration law," Arreguin said.

Nadia Kayyali of the Bill of Rights Defense Committee, addressed the council,
arguing that turning over suspects to ICE "throws out the notion that people are
innocent until proven guilty."

Berkeley's participation in Secure Communities over the past two years, has
resulted in turning over to ICE an average of two people each month. These are
often people police have picked up for crimes such as public intoxication or
minor drug or parole violations, according to National Lawyer's Guild Attorney
Sharon Adams, who obtained the information through a Freedom of Information
request.

Police Chief Meehan proposed the more restrictive policy, so that people
suspected of low level crimes would not be sent to ICE and face deportation, but
he defended the idea that Berkeley should cooperate with ICE with respect to
suspects accused of serious crimes.

"My own opinion is that law enforcement should not be party to immigration
enforcement, with the exception of dangerous people" he said. "That's why we've
tailored this policy so narrowly. My responsibility as chief is to make sure ...
that our efforts are focused on public safety. And I don't think it's in the
interest of public safety to release someone who has shown a propensity to go
out and hurt somebody, when we have the option to prevent that."

Council members pointed out that, in the end, the policy would be mostly
symbolic, since suspects generally spend little time in Berkeley jails and are
quickly moved to county facilities, where the sheriff fully cooperates with
federal immigration requests.

But Lippman and other activists at the council meeting said they're already
working on the county level to change policies there. "Berkeley won't stand
alone," Lippman said.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday

Some immigrants charged in Alameda County courts could avoid deportation under
DA's new guidelines

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 824 words


In a new strategy to stop minor crimes from triggering deportations, Alameda
County's district attorney has instructed prosecutors to allow some immigrants
to avoid convictions that could get them expelled from the country.

District Attorney Nancy O'Malley's new policy makes Alameda one of a handful of
counties in the nation, including Santa Clara, where prosecutors are openly
considering the threat of deportation in evaluating how they seek guilty pleas
for low-level crimes.

Some legal immigrants caught committing minor crimes might be able to avoid
mandatory deportation in exchange for longer jail sentences or other penalties
under O'Malley's new plea bargain guidelines.

"We're not talking about giving alternative charges to serious and violent
felons," O'Malley said in an interview. "We're looking at this in minor crimes,
such as misdemeanor petty theft and minor drug convictions."

According to federal laws made more strict in the 1990s, legal immigrants who
have not obtained U.S. citizenship are forced to leave the country if they are
convicted of certain crimes. Illegal immigrants, while always subject to
deportation, can also face more severe consequences if convicted of a crime that
bars them from ever returning.

Defense attorneys say the new policy could benefit some illegal immigrants,
though O'Malley said the focus is on legal immigrants. O'Malley said she is
following the lead of a 2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that said "deportation is
an integral part -- indeed, sometimes the most important part -- of the penalty
that may be imposed on noncitizen defendants who plead guilty" to certain
crimes.

The new guidelines follow similar rules that Santa Clara County District
Attorney Jeff Rosen issued last fall.

Rosen crafted his policy not long after defeating incumbent District Attorney
Dolores Carr, who had vowed not to alter pleas for immigration-related reasons
but was accused during the campaign of doing just that to help a Stanford
University foreign student whose lawyer was a campaign contributor.

Now, Santa Clara prosecutors uniformly treat immigration consequences as a
normal part of negotiations over criminal cases to avoid the "shattering,
life-altering consequences" of deportation when such a punishment far exceeds
the crime, said assistant district attorney David Angel.

In Santa Clara, as in Alameda, the policy mostly benefits legal immigrants or
illegal immigrants who already had some chance at legal residency.

For the most part, "if someone's not here legally it's not going to help them,"
because they are already subject to deportation, Angel said.

The policy has helped Santa Clara avoid costly trials against immigrants who are
more likely to settle if their guilty plea doesn't force them to leave the
country, according to a Georgetown Law Journal study being published next month.

"For years, there had been a perception and ethic among prosecutors that a
criminal defendant's immigration status was irrelevant to negotiations on the
case," said Ray Keller, a senior assistant public defender for Alameda County.
"There were many defendants charged with relatively minor crimes who would be
convicted, pay a fine, be on probation, and then discover they would be deported
after living legally in the country for 20 years and raising a family here."

It is unclear how many criminal cases Alameda County's new guidelines will
affect, but since 2010 more than 1,700 people who were first arrested by local
police in Alameda County have been deported. Of those, 73 percent had been
convicted of a crime; about 29 percent had been convicted of crimes that U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement labels as the most serious.

O'Malley downplayed the significance of her new guidelines, saying it was always
"very rare" for a truly minor conviction to lead to deportation. "No specific
formula" will dictate how her office prosecutes defendants who are not citizens,
but prosecutors are being trained to understand complex immigration consequences
and to incorporate that knowledge into bargaining for a guilty plea, she said.

For example, jail sentences could be reduced by a day to avoid mandatory
deportation that comes with a yearlong sentence, or a defendant accused of
dealing drugs could plead guilty to a lesser charge of possession, said Raha
Jorjani, an in-house immigration consultant for the Alameda County Public
Defender's Office who urged the district attorney to craft the new guidelines.

Citing the "dramatically raised" stakes of an immigrant's conviction because of
laws enacted in the 1990s, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2010 that defense
attorneys must inform an immigrant if a conviction could result in deportation.
The highest court took up the case after a truck driver and legal immigrant,
Jose Padilla, had pleaded guilty in Kentucky to a felony drug charge, unaware
that the conviction would force him to return to Honduras after decades living
in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

Santa Clara County District Attorney Jeff Rosen urges for change to immigration
policy

BYLINE: By Tracey Kaplan tkaplan@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 1002 words


Martin Moreno roughed up his ex-girlfriend like an "animal" until police
arrested him at gunpoint, according to a witness. Juan Flores bashed a man in
the head with a beer bottle, producing a wound that required 25 stitches. And
Francisco Gomez twice punched a 2-year-old with his closed fist -- hard enough
to trigger a brain hemorrhage.

All three were in this country illegally and could have been deported under
federal law if Santa Clara County had been willing to hold them for immigration
agents. Instead, they were treated like U.S. citizens and released either on
probation or on bail under a county policy that effectively bars all immigration
"holds." Since then, they've thumbed their noses at the criminal justice system
and gone on the lam.

Armed with disturbing examples like these, District Attorney Jeff Rosen is
urging the county board of supervisors to rescind one of the nation's most
lenient immigration policies. Rosen contends the year-old county policy
unnecessarily endangers the community by allowing illegal immigrants with a
history of violent or serious crimes to be released rather than held for U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE.

The county's policy must change, Rosen argues, "to protect public safety,
protect taxpayer's dollars and protect victims' rights."

Tinkering with immigration policy is a touchy matter in a county where one in
four residents was born in a foreign country. Staunch advocates of the county
policy, including ambitious local politicians and some defense attorneys, argue
that engaging local authorities in immigration enforcement undermines immigrant
communities' trust in the police, making people afraid to report crimes as a
witness or even a victim. They also point to abuses of authority by ICE and note
that many defendants were brought to the U.S. when they were young children and
have deep roots here.

But the prospects for at least tweaking the policy are greater now that its main
proponent, Supervisor George Shirakawa, is under heavy fire for charging
thousands of dollars of questionable expenses on his taxpayer-funded credit
card.

The board of supervisors is expected to vote whether to change the policy early
next year, after a group of law enforcement officials, including Rosen, Acting
Public Defender Molly O'Neal and Sheriff Laurie Smith, recommends a course of
action. Smith supports honoring ICE detention requests for illegal immigrants
with a history of violent or serious crimes; O'Neal is open to discussing the
issue but has concerns.

The issue exploded last year when Santa Clara County became only the second
jurisdiction in the nation after Chicago's Cook County to release illegal
immigrants with a history of committing serious or violent crimes onto the
streets, unless ICE pays to detain them.

ICE has balked at the request, so these individuals are let out of jail, either
on bail or once they finish their sentences.

Even San Francisco County has retreated from its similarly lenient policy after
undocumented juveniles it protected from deportation went on to commit
well-publicized killings. It now honors ICE detention requests for felons only.

Rosen advocates allowing ICE to interview and possibly deport offenders with
violent or serious criminal histories, those convicted of any felony except drug
use or drug possession, as well as those who have either injured someone while
driving under the influence or have multiple DUI convictions. He also wants to
turn over gang members.

To support his position, Rosen studied detention requests from October 2011
through February. Included among the 110 offenders who fit Rosen's criteria and
were released into the community: six felony sex offenders or child molesters,
eight residential burglars, 10 inmates with documented gang affiliations and 12
drunken drivers who injured a victim or had repeated offenses. Some of the 110
were ordered by the courts to stay away from victims who were afraid of them,
and 30 of them skipped town.

So far, only Supervisor Mike Wasserman, the lone vote against the policy last
year, has come out in support of Rosen's proposal. Other supervisors said it was
premature to comment until the group of law enforcement officials makes its
recommendation.

Rosen said it costs county taxpayers more to defy ICE than it would to hold
illegal immigrants for up to 48 hours until agents arrive to interview them. For
instance, it costs about $6,705.72 to supervise a convicted offender on
probation for three years, compared with $407.58 to hold them for two days.

That does not factor in the cost of having to keep immigrants in jail while
their cases are pending, rather than allowing them to bail out. But Rosen argues
that ICE already pays the county Department of Corrections about $1 million a
year under the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program to incarcerate
"undocumented criminal aliens."

Aside from cost considerations, Rosen can try to make the case for honoring ICE
detention requests by recounting the grisly facts behind some of the statistics.

There's Moreno, who failed to appear in April at his preliminary hearing on
charges he savagely beat an ex-girlfriend in the parking lot of a bar on Alum
Rock Road. A motorist who stopped in the middle of the night to help the woman
said, "The guy was an animal, he was throwing her, like, boom" into the car.

Instead of remaining behind bars pending resolution of his case, as he would
have been on an immigration hold, he allegedly jumped bail, started using an
alias and is suspected of violating a restraining order another woman took out
against him by appearing in her living room uninvited in the night, according to
court documents.

Unlike in San Francisco, none of the 110 defendants who have been released
despite detainer requests from ICE have gone on to commit other serious or
violent crimes. But Rosen fears it's only a matter of time.

"There's no poster child -- yet," Rosen said.

Contact Tracey Kaplan at 408-278-3482. Follow her atTwitter.com/tkaplanreport .

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jeff Rosen, Santa Clara County District Attorney, gives his reaction to
the media after Will Lynch was acquitted of two felony assaults at the Santa
Clara County Hall of Justice in San Jose, Calif. on Thursday, July 5, 2012.
Lynch was accused of allegedly assaulting the Rev. Jerold Lindner two years ago
at the Sacred Heart retirement home in Los Gatos, where Lindner is listed as a
child molester. Lynch alleges the priest sexually molested him and his
4-year-old brother more than 35 years ago. (Gary Reyes/ Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 23, 2012 Friday

High-skill green cards get lame-duck push in Congress

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; Science; News;
National; Local; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 792 words


In the first test of a new political climate on immigration reform, the
lame-duck House of Representatives is renewing a push to eliminate America's
random visa lottery and replace it with a bill favored by thousands of Silicon
Valley immigrant workers: one that would give green cards to foreigners with
advanced U.S. degrees in science, engineering and math.

House Republicans say they are wasting no time putting the bill up for a Friday
vote after a similar measure failed in September. The maneuver follows a
vigorous debate in the conservative movement over how to warm up to a growing
Latino and Asian-American electorate that was pivotal in re-electing President
Barack Obama.

Republicans are even adding a provision they once opposed to allow the spouses
and minor children of legal immigrants to join their family members in the
United States instead of waiting for years in their home countries.

The election "put a spotlight on immigration issues," said Brian Berg, head of
the Silicon Valley chapter of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers, which supports the GOP approach. "While this is not a comprehensive
immigration bill, it's certainly a very important one."

Some Democrats, however, are deriding the new push as a deceptively limited
measure that will pass the GOP-led House but fail in the Senate, where majority
Democrats would be reluctant to give the GOP what it wants now because it needs
conservative votes to enact broader reforms next year.

Republicans are "trying to pretend they're pro-immigrant by this bill, knowing
that it goes nowhere," said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, the top Democrat
on the House immigration subcommittee.

Passage of the visa swap would fulfill a goal of reigning House Republicans to
gut the annual "diversity visa lottery," which randomly awards 50,000 green
cards for permanent residency to people from countries with low rates of
immigration to the United States as long as they have a high school degree.

Those green cards would instead go to immigrants with much higher education
credentials -- a master's or doctorate in the so-called STEM fields: science,
technology, engineering and math.

The high-skill STEM visas have bipartisan consensus in Congress, but most
Democrats have been unwilling to sacrifice the two-decade-old visa lottery to
get them. One problem, said Lofgren, is that the Republicans' swap would
actually cut immigration, since there are not enough foreigners with advanced
degrees who want to emigrate to fill all the high-tech slots once a backlog is
taken care of.

For many people in Africa who are not already in the upper classes, cutting off
the diversity visa takes away "one of the few options that individuals have to
legally enter the United States," said Joe Sciarrillo of the San Francisco-based
African Advocacy Network.

"The diversity visa is more open and egalitarian in terms of who qualifies for
it," Sciarrillo said. "A single mother with a high school degree in Eritrea has
as good a shot as an elite businessman."

Technology worker lobbyists in Silicon Valley and elsewhere have been pushing
for a compromise, hoping to persuade lawmakers that the visa lottery has
achieved its original purpose of diversifying the immigration pool.

"The visa lottery has done its job," says a report being released Monday by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, or IEEE. "It is that rarest of
things: an act of Congress which so plainly achieved its purpose that it is no
longer necessary."

The group's report concludes that the lottery over the past 20 years helped open
the doors to Africans and Eastern Europeans who had been excluded from America's
family-focused immigration, but now the program is outdated. For instance, 2,800
Nigerians won a diversity visa last year by the luck of the draw; but there were
also more than 3,000 highly educated Nigerian foreign students in the United
States who would have benefited from a STEM green card.

It is better policy to give the green cards to those with the highest skills
whom American universities have already invested in, said IEEE's Berg, a
Saratoga resident. The chapter counts nearly 12,000 members.

"There are so many who are in college who, once they get their advanced degree,
they're stuck," Berg said. "They have to leave."

The House voted 257 to 158 in favor of a similar bill on Sept. 20, but the vote
was structured in a way that required a two-thirds majority, allowing
Republicans to blame Democrats for its defeat just weeks before the presidential
election.

This Friday, however, the vote will need only a majority and is likely to coast
through the House, facing its bigger obstacles in the Senate.

"It's really just an effort to try to divide people once again," Lofgren said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

Chart: Immigration views of California representatives in Congress

BYLINE: Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 27 words


New members of Califonia's congressional delegation differ from their
predecessors on immigration policy. Click here to read the full Bay Area News
Group article.



LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 30, 2012 Friday

Mercury News editorial: GOP's visa bill not real reform; Congress needs to pass
comprehensive measure

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 459 words


In their first postelection crack at immigration policy, House Republicans
seemed to have forgotten the message they got so recently from their
overwhelming rejection by minority voters. They passed a bill Friday that would
actually limit legal immigration.

Seriously?

The bill has no chance in the Democratic Senate, nor should it. It would do one
good thing: increase the number of visas for immigrants with advanced degrees in
science, technology, engineering and math. But it would do this by eliminating a
lottery that provides 55,000 green cards a year to people from countries,
including many in Africa, with low immigration rates.

It's not necessary to eliminate one form of legal immigration to increase
another. That's why it's so puzzling that the GOP, after appearing eager to shed
its mean-spirited image on this issue, would push this bill through. Yes, the
United States has to increase the number of visas for highly educated immigrants
and make them easier to get. But that should be part of comprehensive
immigration reform, and it should not lower the overall level of immigration, as
the bill passed Friday would do.

San Jose Rep. Zoe Lofgren, one of the Democrats' leading voices on immigration,
told us she is "cautiously optimistic" Congress can pass a comprehensive bill,
one that both helps businesses compete and includes multiple ways for people
from all walks of life to make this country their permanent home.

A central provision must be a path to citizenship for the 11 million
undocumented immigrants already here. Voters rejected Mitt Romney's idea of
"self-deportation" -- making life so difficult for immigrants that they leave.
Mass roundups of 11 million people would simply be impossible. Creating the
opportunity for immigrants to earn legal status is the only realistic strategy.

Legislation should also offer a green card to all master's and doctoral students
graduating from nonprofit U.S. universities with a science, technology,
engineering or math degree, and to many entrepreneurs, as Lofgren has proposed.
These talented, driven individuals should be welcomed to start their businesses
and careers here, creating jobs in America.

And the country still needs a Dream Act. An executive order from President
Barack Obama now allows many young people brought here as children to stay
without fear of deportation, but the law must change to provide certainty. Kids
in school or the military need a fast track to citizenship.

True reform also has to include a guest worker program and increase the number
of H-1B visas while fixing abuses in that system.

There's only one way a comprehensive bill can pass, however. A majority of
lawmakers finally has to accept the fact that immigrants don't hurt America.
They strengthen it.



LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (L-R) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart
(R-FL), Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Rep.
Darrell Issa (R-Vista) and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) talk to
reporters after the House passed the STEM Jobs Act November 30, 2012 in
Washington, D.C. The act would allow foreign students who graduated from U.S.
colleges and universities with degrees in science and technology to obtain green
cards to become permanent legal residents. President Barack Obama said he would
not sign the bill unless it was part of larger and more comprehensive
immigration reform legislation. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: The immigration reform shuffle

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 631 words


SAN DIEGO -- Recently, dozens of representatives from the business, religious
and law enforcement communities convened in Washington to declare that
comprehensive immigration reform must be the first piece of business for the new
Congress.

I agree with the goal, and the timetable. And I even thought about joining those
stakeholders at their meeting. Then I realized that I could learn more about the
reality of immigration reform from talking to my gardener.

More on what we talked about later.

But first, if the follies and foibles of states such as Arizona taught us
anything, it's that the solution to our immigration problem must come from
Washington. And yet, as should be clear to those of us who keep a close eye on
the immigration debate, the last place likely to produce a workable solution to
this issue is Washington.

Our nation's capital is full of people -- in government, media and advocacy
groups -- who are sure they have all the answers. They aren't about to entertain
the possibility that when it comes to immigration, they know less than the folks
who live in Brownsville, Texas, or Pueblo, Colo., or Tucson, Ariz.

In Congress, neither Democrats nor Republicans like this debate, which is why
they've consistently put it on the back burner. Democrats have to keep the peace
between the labor movement, much of which is not enthusiastic about legalizing
the undocumented, and Latinos, most of whom are. Republicans have to referee the
battle between business, which wants workers, and nativists who worry that
immigrants are hurting the country.

Still, the legislative branch runs on pressure points. Kick off a debate on
immigration and you can be sure that the special interests are going to have
their interests served.

Last year, while Congress was debating a bill by House Judiciary Chairman Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, that would have made it mandatory for employers to check the
immigration status of potential hires through E-Verify -- the federal
government's less-than-perfect electronic employment verification system -- I
visited an avocado grove north of San Diego. The farmer told me that the bill
would kill his industry because most avocado pickers are undocumented. But he
wasn't worried, he said, because "we have people in Washington working on that
for us." The farm lobbyists did their magic. And before long, Smith had inserted
new language carving out a special exemption giving agribusiness a three-year
waiver on the verification requirement.

This is Congress' survival tactic when dealing with thorny issues. Lawmakers try
to look like they're doing something when they're really not doing much of
anything.

None of this seemed to matter much to my gardener. He's a legal resident, but he
has family, friends and neighbors who are undocumented. Like a dozen other
immigrants I've interviewed over the past year or so, he doesn't care about
citizenship or voting. What he cares about -- and what he says a lot of his
undocumented brethren care about -- is a different piece of paper: a driver's
license. Without one of those, Latino immigrants in California risk having their
car towed whenever they're pulled over by police for running a stop sign or
having a busted taillight. And if they're undocumented, they're likely to be
deported.

This isn't federal business. States issue driver's licenses. But perhaps
Congress could make the process smoother. Besides, what good does it do if
Democrats and immigrant advocacy groups take a hard line on Congress granting
citizenship, and the entire debate over legalization comes unraveled because of
it?

But this is just a conversation with a gardener. What does he know? The smart
folks in Washington are mulling over the immigrant experience in America. He's
living it.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday

George F. Will: The door-opener to America

BYLINE: By George Will Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 782 words


At the end of this year in which election results reinserted immigration into
the political conversation, remember that 2012 is the 150th anniversary of "the
first comprehensive immigration law." This is how the Homestead Act of 1862 is
described by Blake Bell, historian at the Homestead National Monument of America
near Beatrice, Neb., one of the National Park Service's many educational jewels
that make the NPS one of just two government institutions (the other is the U.S.
Marine Band) that should be exempt from any budget cuts, for all eternity.

In 1862, the grim year of Shiloh and Fredericksburg, Congress would have been
forgiven for concentrating only on preventing national dismemberment. Instead,
while defiantly continuing construction of the Capitol dome, Congress continued
nation-building. It passed the Pacific Railroad Act to provide for the movement
of people and goods to and from the new lands in the West, the Morrill Act to
build land-grant colleges emphasizing agriculture and, most important, the
Homestead Act, whose provisions were as simple as the problem it addressed was
stark.

What today is called the Great Plains was at that time identified on maps as the
Great American Desert. Under the act, $18 in fees entitled homesteaders to farm
160 acres to which they would acquire title for no further cost after five
years. Or after six months if they paid $1.25 an acre. (Union soldiers could
deduct their time in uniform from the residency requirement.) The act was
intended to attract immigrants from abroad -- immigrants who would put down
roots. For this purpose, it provided all requirements for citizenship.

Until then, Bell writes, the states had been "the primary overseers of
immigration." And as an immigration commissioner of New York later testified to
Congress, large numbers of immigrants would "come regularly to this country
every spring" but would take themselves and their earnings back to Europe in the
autumn, not paying taxes and depressing American wages.

The Naturalization Law of 1802 required immigrants to receive certificates
("first papers") proving that they had declared upon arrival their intention to
become citizens. After five years, an immigrant could take the certificate and
two witnesses to a courthouse and be naturalized. This law addressed the worry
that Europe was deliberately exporting the wretched refuse of its teeming shores
-- people of (in a Kentucky congressman's words) "the most turbulent and
factious tempers," accustomed to monarchies and sorely in need of
Americanization.

By 1850, the United States had acquired, by hook or by crook (including Indian
"removal" and the morally dubious but indubitably beneficial war with Mexico),
vast quantities of land. Most of it was uninhabited, unless you counted, as few
did, Indians. In 1862, with many citizens fighting, noncitizens were needed to
(in an Illinois congressman's words) "go upon these wild lands" to increase the
nation's wealth.

Bell calls the Homestead Act "an accommodating immigration law" because its
requirement that the land be farmed for five years was the amount of time
required to become a citizen, and because it began the assimilation of
immigrants into American law.

The spirit of the act was optimistic. As The New York Times said, it would
attract "the common people of Europe" who are free from the prejudices of "the
aristocratic and snobocratic classes."

Under the Homestead Act, which continued in effect in Alaska until 1986, more
than 270 million acres -- approximately 422,000 square miles or 2.5 Californias
-- were privatized. The truth-tellers at the National Archives say most
homesteaders came from near their homesteads -- Iowans moved to Nebraska,
Minnesotans to South Dakota, etc. Furthermore, speculators, railroads and other
sharpies snapped up most of the land: Of 500 million acres dispersed by 1904,
only 80 million went to homesteaders. Small farmers settled more land under the
act in the 20th century than in the 19th.

Still, Bell rightly notes that the act was an immigration law in effect as well
as intent. By 1870, the foreign-born population of Wyoming and Montana was 39
percent, of Dakota Territory's, 34 percent, of Nebraska's, 25 percent. And the
peak years of national immigration, 1905-14, were the peak years of homestead
claims.

Skeptics will say that the Homestead Act which welcomed immigrants to a sparsely
populated continent is irrelevant to today. Skeptics should consider not only
that immigration is still an entrepreneurial act but also that as the
entitlement state buckles beneath the weight of an aging population, America's
workforce needs replenishing.

Contact George Will atgeorgewill@washpost.com .

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

Silicon Valley foreign worker search speeds up after lull

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1009 words


Technology firms have tripled their recruitment of foreign workers this spring
after a hiring lull of several years -- a development that is reigniting the
debate over immigration rules affecting those workers.

American companies sought more than 32,500 temporary H-1B visas, available for
skilled workers, since the annual recruiting period began in April. That is
about triple the number sought by the same time last year.

"The demand for the visas is going up," said Emily Lam of the Silicon Valley
Leadership Group, a business advocate.

The H-1B program remains perennially debated, with businesses arguing they need
the skilled workers and opponents saying the foreign recruits displace American
workers and undercut wages. Currently, 85,000 such visas may be granted each
year, with 20,000 set aside for foreign students graduating from U.S.
universities. Many businesses argue for a higher cap.

Even the reason for the springtime spike in visa petitions is a matter of
controversy.

"I don't necessarily think it's an indication that tech hiring as a whole is
picking up," said H-1B opponent Kim Berry, president of the Programmers Guild.
"Without knowing who is requesting or what skills they are requesting, it's hard
to say anything."

The government won't reveal those details until the end of the year, but several
job market reports have confirmed a surge of tech hiring in the Bay Area.

Both President Barack Obama and his likely GOP opponent, Mitt Romney, have
talked this year of the need to "staple" a green card to the diplomas of the
best foreign students, ensuring they stay and contribute to the U.S. economy.
Obama has not articulated any major changes to the H-1B program. Romney's
economic plan proposes raising the visa caps for highly skilled foreign workers.

Demand is not high enough to repeat what happened in 2007 and 2008, when the
65,000 visas available each year ran out in a few days and many more applicants
lost out. That flood of petitions forced U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services to dole out the visas in a lottery.

The recession temporarily ended the visa crunch, slowing recruitment to a
trickle, although the cap has always been reached by the end of the year.

Sign to Congress

Lam said this year's uptick signals a better economy but should also be a sign
to Congress to make it easier for high-skilled workers to come here.

"The urgency is becoming more clear," Lam said. "If we don't do this now, those
people will take the jobs elsewhere, and in the end, America's going to lose out
on something it's always benefited from, which is the best and brightest wanting
to come here."

Berry disagrees, saying many companies recruit the workers because they are
cheaper, not better, despite a rule requiring they be paid the prevailing wages.

"When you're looking to pinch pennies, you can get an H-1B," he said.

Unlike a green card, which allows permanent residency in the United States, an
H-1B lasts for three years and can be extended to six. The visa is for
professional workers in fields such as computer programming and medical work.

Silicon Valley companies including Intel, Oracle, Google, Apple and
Hewlett-Packard rank among the top employers nationwide in the number of
temporary foreign workers they sponsor. Several of those companies declined to
comment about the issue this week.

But in a lobbying trip to the nation's capital last month, sponsored by Lam's
group, dozens of Bay Area executives pushed lawmakers to expand high-skilled
immigration -- not just the temporary H-1B visa, but also visas that lead to
permanent legal residency.

"They have been consistently calling for this for over a decade now," Lam said.
"A lot of these folks they're trying to recruit have unique, singular skills."

Along with the roughly 32,500 H-1B petitions that companies filed in the month
since the April 2 start date, an additional 13,700 petitions have been filed for
foreign workers with advanced degrees. Those H-1B visas don't fall under the
annual 65,000 cap; they have a separate 20,000 cap. The advanced-degree
petitions also have nearly doubled over last year's numbers.

Amid the recruitment spike, several lawmakers from both parties are appealing to
Silicon Valley with bills for high-skilled immigrant workers, entrepreneurs or
university graduates.

The latest came Tuesday when U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, introduced
legislation to add 55,000 permanent residency visas -- the green cards -- for
foreign students who earn graduate degrees from U.S. universities in science,
technology, engineering or mathematics, known as the STEM fields. Many of those
students must otherwise compete for H-1B sponsors after graduation if they want
to stay.

Bipartisan appeal

To offset the added visas, Cornyn's bill would eliminate the "diversity lottery"
that randomly distributes 55,000 green cards to people from countries that do
not have high rates of immigration to the United States.

Such proposals favoring highly educated immigrants have bipartisan appeal.

One advocate for lowering immigration said he would rather see fewer visas
altogether but said Cornyn's plan to allot them to students with master's and
doctorate degrees is better than distributing visas randomly.

"The visa lottery is a totally unjustified program, one of the stupidest ways
you could pick immigrants," said Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C. "This is clearly better than just adding
those STEM visas and leaving the visa lottery in place."

Berry was less supportive, arguing that Cornyn's bill could lead to U.S.
universities degenerating into visa mills.

The Silicon Valley Leadership Group has not weighed in on Cornyn's bill, but Lam
said, "We are definitely for the concept of increasing the availability of visas
and green cards" for science and technology graduates.

H-1B VISAS

Companies seek these visas to allow for the placement
of highly skilled foreign workers.

32,500: Number sought this year
10,200: Number sought by this date last year
65,000: Number sought by this date in both 2007 and 2008

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

H-1B work visas run out

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 431 words


Highly skilled foreigners still hoping to get an H-1B visa to work in the United
States this year are out of luck because the visas have run out.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services announced Tuesday that it received
enough visa applications to fill its annual cap of 85,000 visas Monday, about
five months earlier than the cap was hit last year.

Higher visa demand this season signaled a tech hiring surge to some.

"H-1Bs are a good indicator of how the economy is doing," said Florida
immigration lawyer Ashwin Sharma. "You only hire an IT consultant when there's
work available, and it's work that has to be estimated six months in advance. If
companies are taking that risk, there's a belief that the economy is back and
there's money to be made."

Employers looking for professionals in "specialty" fields from technology to
teaching in the past 10 weeks filed tens of thousands of petitions to sponsor
foreign workers on the three-year temporary visas.

Many H-1B candidates are still waiting to find out if the U.S. government
approved their visas. Workers who win a visa can begin their jobs in October.

"I am really looking forward to getting the visa and getting the chance to work
in Silicon Valley," said one 24-year-old software developer being recruited by a
Redwood City startup.

Speaking by phone from his home in Bangalore, India, the graduate of the Indian
Institute of Technology said he is anxiously waiting to hear back on the status
of the application the company filed for him a week ago. He asked that his name
not be used for fear the attention could jeopardize his chances.

It took nearly seven months last year and almost the entire year in 2010 for
employers to seek enough workers to hit the yearly cap. That was a big change
from pre-recession years when the 85,000 visas -- including 20,000 set aside for
people with advanced degrees -- ran out in less than a week.

This year, it took 10 weeks to reach the cap, the quickest since before the
recession. The advanced-degree cap was reached Thursday and the total cap
reached Monday.

Companies that didn't file a visa petition before this week must wait until
April 2013 to try again and won't be able to employ an H-1B worker until October
2013.

Many candidates for H-1B visas already live in the United States, said Pushpa
Unni, who works at a Fremont-based consulting firm that assists with
applications.

Of the 52 applications she helped file this year, Unni said, most involved
foreign students graduating from California universities with a master's or
bachelor's degree who want to stay in the region to work.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Mi Pueblo markets came under U.S. immigration audit, company says

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 622 words


Federal immigration agents launched an audit of the 21-store Mi Pueblo
supermarket chain in mid-August after hearing complaints about suspected illegal
immigrant workers, the company announced Friday.

The audit of I-9 forms, known as a "silent raid," was the reason the San
Jose-based grocer voluntarily joined the federal E-Verify system a short time
later to check the immigration status of all new hires.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has audited more than 6,500 worksites
nationwide since 2009, but "most companies choose not to talk about it because
it is confidential," said company lawyer Julie Pace. She led a news conference
Friday to dispel rumors she said were spreading fear and division.

The announcement comes days before a threatened boycott is to begin at noon
Monday, led by a union trying to organize Mi Pueblo's more than 3,000 workers
and demanding that the company stop using E-Verify.

The union said Friday it is backing off on the E-Verify demand amid news of the
ICE audit but is proceeding with the boycott because Mi Pueblo refuses to sign a
labor agreement. Supermarket workers are even more upset about how this was
handled than they were before, said Gerardo Dominguez, campaign coordinator for
the Justice for Mercado Workers Coalition. It is seeking to unionize thousands
of workers at Latino and Asian groceries around the state.

"People are very anxious, very nervous, very upset," said Dominguez. He said one
worker recently quit because he was feeling too much stress.

In a video shown to employees earlier this week, Mi Pueblo founder and CEO
Juvenal Chavez revealed the audit for the first time and said he would have to
dismiss any workers found to have invalid work documents.

"The possibility of losing one of our employees will hurt my heart," he said,
according to a transcript of the video obtained by the union and translated into
English from Spanish. "And it will feel like losing a family member."

Labor activists have faulted Chavez, a U.S. citizen who is himself a former
illegal immigrant from Mexico, for betraying the Latino immigrant community that
sustains his business, but the company has fought back the attacks on its
reputation and hired an Arizona legal team and immigrant rights activist Lydia
Guzman to help manage the crisis.

Pace, the lawyer, spoke to reporters Friday in front of posters depicting what
she called "immigration reform butterflies" that emphasize the need for the
"left wing" and the "right wing" to come together.

"Companies get caught in the middle" of immigration enforcement stings and the
audits have particularly hurt Latino businesses, she said. It could take months
or more than a year for the government to complete its audit, she said.

The government can fine companies for hiring illegal workers, but Case said it
is not a crime for the company to hire workers who used counterfeit forms that
looked genuine.

"We can't discriminate" or scrutinize workers just "because they have brown skin
or speak Spanish or have a Spanish surname," she said.

Chavez, a former janitor, founded his first Mi Pueblo in 1991 and built a chain
across the Bay Area and into the Central Valley. City leaders have lauded Mi
Pueblo for revitalizing shopping centers with its festive supermarkets and
bakeries.

The chain's original East San Jose store at King and Story roads was bustling
Friday morning. Most shoppers said they were unaware of the immigration problems
or the boycott plan.

As he pushed a cart out of the store, shopper Carlos Carranza, 19, said he had
not heard of the boycott but he faulted the government for any hardships the
audit brings to workers.

"The company has nothing to do with it," the San Jose resident said. "They're
just doing their job."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Mi Pueblo markets came under U.S. immigration audit, company says

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 621 words


Federal immigration agents launched an audit of the 21-store Mi Pueblo
supermarket chain in mid-August after hearing complaints about suspected illegal
immigrant workers, the company announced Friday.

The audit of I-9 forms, known as a "silent raid," was the reason the San
Jose-based grocer voluntarily joined the federal E-Verify system a short time
later to check the immigration status of all new hires.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has audited more than 6,500 worksites
nationwide since 2009, but "most companies choose not to talk about it because
it is confidential," said company lawyer Julie Case. She led a press conference
Friday to dispel rumors she said were spreading fear and division.

The announcement comes days before a threatened boycott is to begin at noon
Monday, led by a union trying to organize Mi Pueblo's more than 3,000 workers
and demanding that the company stop using E-Verify.

The union said Friday it is backing off on the E-Verify demand amid news of the
ICE audit, but is proceeding with the boycott because Mi Pueblo refuses to sign
a labor agreement. Supermarket workers are even more upset about how this was
handled than they were before, said Gerardo Dominguez, campaign coordinator for
the Justice for Mercado Workers Coalition. It is seeking to unionize thousands
of Latino and Asian grocery workers around the state.

"People are very anxious, very nervous, very upset," said Dominguez. He said one
worker recently quit because he was feeling too much stress.

In a video shown to employees earlier this week, Mi Pueblo founder and CEO
Juvenal Chavez revealed the audit for the first time and said he would have to
dismiss any workers found to have invalid work documents.

"The possibility of losing one of our employees will hurt my heart," he said,
according to a transcript of the video obtained by the union and translated into
English from Spanish. "And it will feel like losing a family member."

Labor activists have faulted Chavez, a U.S. citizen who is himself a former
illegal immigrant from Mexico, for betraying the Latino immigrant community that
sustains his business, but the company has fought back the attacks on its
reputation and hired an Arizona legal team and immigrant rights activist Lydia
Guzman to help manage the crisis.

Case, the lawyer, spoke to reporters Friday in front of posters depicting what
she called "immigration reform butterflies" that emphasize the need for the
"left wing" and the "right wing" to come together.

"Companies get caught in the middle" of immigration enforcement stings and the
audits have particularly hurt Hispanic businesses, she said. It could take
months or more than a year for the government to complete its audit, she said.

The government can fine companies for hiring illegal workers, but Case said it
is not a crime for the company to hire workers who used counterfeit forms that
looked genuine.

"We can't discriminate" or scrutinize workers just "because they have brown skin
or speak Spanish or have a Spanish surname," she said.

Chavez, a former janitor, founded his first Mi Pueblo in 1991 and built a chain
across the Bay Area and into the Central Valley. City leaders have lauded Mi
Pueblo for revitalizing shopping centers with its festive supermarkets and
bakeries.

The chain's original East San Jose store at King and Story roads was bustling
Friday morning. Most shoppers said they were unaware of the immigration problems
or the boycott plan.

As he pushed a cart out of the store, shopper Carlos Carranza, 19, said he had
not heard of the boycott but he faulted the government for any hardships the
audit brings to workers.

"The company has nothing to with it," the San Jose resident said. "They're just
doing their job."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday

Foreign aid dwarfed by funds sent home by immigrant workers

BYLINE: Peter Passell, Foreign Policy

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 1235 words


Everybody knows that the tens of millions of migrants from developing countries
(documented and undocumented) who work in Europe, North America and the Persian
Gulf send home a lot of money. What most don't know, though, is that the sums
are triple the development aid budgets of the rich donor countries, and growing
rapidly. Nor are many people aware that remittances have morphed from an
afterthought to a key component in strategies for transforming poor countries
into successful "emerging market" economies. Indeed, it's becoming clear that
Lant Pritchett, a brand-name economist now at the Center for Global Development,
was ahead of his time in arguing thatthe best thing rich countries could do for
the developing world is to let their migrants do the heavy lifting .



Start with the numbers . Remittances to developing countries, which were below
$100 billion as recently as 2002, reached $372 billion in 2011. Not
surprisingly, India and China topped the list of recipients with $64 billion and
$62 billion respectively, followed by Mexico ($24 billion), the Philippines ($23
billion), Egypt ($14 billion), Pakistan ($12 billion), Bangladesh ($12 billion)
and Nigeria ($11 billion).

What may surprise, though, is that the impact on these large countries with
relatively large economies was dwarfed by consequences for a dozen small
countries that are effectively remnants of colonial empires or economic
satellites of the oil states. Think Tajikistan, Moldova and the Kyrgyz Republic,
ex-Soviet republics that each receive more than one-fifth of their incomes from
migrants. Or Lesotho (29 percent of GDP), which is surrounded on all sides by
South Africa. Or Lebanon, which derives 20 percent of its income abroad, mostly
from the Gulf. There's a three-way tie for most dependent Latin American
country, by the way, with El Salvador, Haiti, and Honduras each pulling in about
15 percent of their income from migrants living in the United States.

The flows are volatile. Changes in oil prices affect the gush of money sent from
Russia and the Gulf, for example, while the global recession (in particular, the
collapse of the construction industry) took a hefty chunk out of remittances
from Europe and the United States. But that hit was cushioned in part by the
strength of the dollar and euro through the recession, which meant the money
that was sent paid more bills in local currency back home. Note, too that the
average rate of growth in remittances is so rapid that the cycles are
overwhelmed by the trend.

Of course,the primary beneficiaries are the migrants' families . But the
long-term effect on economic growth is considerable, and for a variety of
reasons. China had a big head start in this regard. Overseas Chinese provided
huge amounts of capital -- and more important, the mix of technological and
managerial knowhow and experience in international trade -- to power China's
takeoff in the 1980s.

India is far behind, in part because a large percentage of overseas Indians are
semi-skilled workers in the Gulf. Ironically, India's well-developed financial
markets have also played a role: That has made it possible for affluent overseas
Indians to invest in stocks and bonds back home rather than in new businesses.
But there's little doubt that the Indian-American high-tech connection is
beginning to pay off, both in terms of direct investment and in the ease of
technology transfer. Though hard to quantify, the success of India's North
American diaspora clearly offers aid and comfort to interests back home that are
fighting to open the country to foreign business -- anuphill struggle in a
country long dominated by politicians and bureaucrats who have much to lose in a
more competitive, less regulated economy.

Savings rates in Asia are very high -- embarrassingly high in the case of China,
which saves more than it can easily invest at home and thus depends on big trade
surpluses to sustain growth in output and employment. But Latin America,where
domestic savings rates are anemic , is an entirely different story. Today,
migrant remittances are mostly fueling consumption -- poor people need to eat
more than they need to save. But that could change as Latinos in the United
States climb the economic ladder. Their money could supplement the availability
of capital back home, especially for small business start-ups from Mexico to
Brazil that are now largely shut out of the credit markets.

Actually, the poorest countries are starving for capital for public
infrastructure as well as for private business. Hence the new interest in
"diaspora bonds " -- government-issued debt denominated in local currencies that
is marketed to expats to finance specific projects. There's no magic here:
Migrants know as well as other potential investors (maybe better) that such
bonds carry the risk of default as well as the risk that currency depreciation
will eat into their principal. Still, the bonds make sense, at least in theory,
both because they appeal to migrants' patriotism and because currency risk
matters less to migrants since their relatives could always use the local cash.

Thus far, diaspora bonds have worked best where special means of raising capital
are needed least (see India and Israel). Butthe World Bank is pressing the issue
, and there's hope the bond approach could make a difference, in particular, in
sub-Saharan Africa.

What we know for certain, though, is that more remittances are better than less
-- and that Pritchett's exhortation to let migrants help their home countries by
doing the jobs nobody wants in rich countries was on the mark. Migration policy
is not about to be liberalized in the United States or Europe -- indeed, net
migration could well remain negative, as chronic unemployment (not to mention
xenophobia) dogs the developed world. Even Saudi Arabia, the second-largest
national source of remittances after the United States, is making serious noises
aboutforcing employers to substitute unproductive Saudi labor for Asian and Arab
workers .

But there is one, widely ignored way to increase the sums going back to
developing countries. The great bulk of remittances are sent home in sums of a
few hundred dollars. Andthe costs of sending the cash is startlingly high -- as
much as 30 percent in some remittance "corridors." In part, that's because the
real cost of wiring $20,000 across borders is hardly different than wiring $200.
However, it's also a function of competition, or lack thereof.

The World Bank maintains a website in eight languagesin which the fees charged
by every major financial institution in every international cash corridor are
posted . Unfortunately, though, the people who need the information the most are
also the people least likely to use websites, and also the least likely to have
the time to cross a city to find a cheaper service.

Governments generally aren't inclined to lean on financial providers to offer
more competitive service; this is a large and profitable business that knows how
to push back. But it may be an arena in which NGOs could make a difference,
publicizing abuses and praising do-gooders in cities and neighborhoods where
immigrants have economic power by virtue of numbers. Paring the average fee from
around eight percent by a single percentage point would mean an extra $3 billion
for recipient countries --roughly the aid budgets of New Zealand, Austria, and
Finland combined .

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

Letters for Wednesday, Dec. 21

BYLINE: Letters from our readers Contra Costa Times © Copyright 2011, Bay Area
News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 704 words


Health care for undocumented

In a recent letter printed in the Times, Mary Jo Welti repeats a common
misconception in relation to undocumented immigrants when she wrote that "they
get free health care in just about any state simply by showing up at the
emergency ward of the nearest hospital."

In reality, all hospital emergency rooms receiving federal funds are subject to
the Federal Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act. That act requires seeing
and attempting to stabilize all patients who present themselves.

Undocumented immigrants are not eligible for public medical benefit programs,
such as Medi-Cal. The only services that are paid for by public funds are
life-threatening emergencies and childbirth.

There are many important reasons why undocumented immigrants should be covered
under truly universal health care.

Betty Brown

Kensington

Brown is a retired public health nurse.

Class warfare won't help state

The "middle class" in America doesn't describe a "class of people" like the
Occupiers and Marxists say as they try to create "class warfare."

It describes relative income levels, so of course young people at the beginning
of their careers, the disabled, retiring seniors, and now the increasingly
unemployed would be living on less income.

However, America's education system and its freedom offers every individual the
chance to get a job or start a business. If good enough, they can move up the
ladder to "middle income" earnings and often to "upper income" earnings before
they retire.

California's "middle income" (and our "upper income") groups are shrinking not
from "class warfare," but from our corrupt and incompetent politicians. They
have raised our taxes and imposed draconian regulations that have made many of
our businesses, jobs and tax revenues flee the state.

They have made California rank as "the worst state in the nation to do business
in" and have bankrupted us. Voters can save California if we will just replace
these politicians with fiscally responsible ones.

Pete Laurence

Clayton

No surprise that GOP voters oppose tax hike

It is excellent news that in a recent California poll, 64 percent of people said
they are willing to pay higher taxes to support public schools, and that those
in favor included people of all genders, races, ages, income, and educational
levels.

As the Times reported, though, there was one group that didn't want to pay more
to support public education: conservative Republicans. Only 34 percent of them
would cooperate.

That's no surprise.

Conservative Republicans have always hated schools and public education. Why?
Because they know that the better educated and more intelligent people are, the
less likely they are to ever vote Republican.

Dan Robertson

Crockett

Paying fair share in federal taxes

It is distressing to see myths and half-truths in support of any point of view,
such as paying one's fair share. While it is true that about 40 percent of
Americans don't make enough to pay income taxes, income taxes account for only
41.5 percent of federal revenues.

Payroll taxes account for 40 percent, and practically all workers and their
employers pay those in Medicare taxes on every dollar of wages and Social
Security taxes on every dollar of wages up to $106,800.

Nor is it true that the rich are mostly small-business owners. In fact, only 2
percent of all those reporting business income in 2009 would be in the top two
income brackets and affected by proposed tax increases.

Income for the wealthiest has gone up more than 300 percent in the past 10
years, while wages for the rest of us have stagnated. Having the top wage
earners pay more is paying their fair share!

Jerri McNair

Walnut Creek

Occupiers hurt working truckers

The Occupy movement is hurting those they claim to want to help. Shutting down
our ports is counterproductive. It hurts the 99 percent the Occupiers claim to
want to help.

Most of the truck drivers are independent contractors earning about $100 per
run, and they try to make as many runs as they can.

The longshoremen are covered by unions, and they get paid whether the ports are
shut down or not.

If the Occupy groups want to really make a difference, then they should go out
to sea and stop the ships from coming in.

Karen Hughes

Antioch

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

Critics decry federal immigration arrests in South Bay

BYLINE: By Sean Webby and Tracy Seipel Staff writers

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; Local

LENGTH: 920 words


In an apparent end-around Santa Clara County's new immigration policy, federal
agents swooped into the South Bay last week, arrested 63 undocumented residents
recently released from jail and are now seeking to deport them.

The action comes two months after the county enacted a sweeping policy to reduce
its role in aiding the federal deportation effort, and provoked outrage among
community activists.

"This is a vindictive PR stunt that shows that ICE is perfectly willing to
sacrifice San Jose and Santa Clara County's effort to build trust with immigrant
communities just so they can save some face," said Raj Jayadev, director of
Silicon Valley De-Bug, a community organization for young adults.

In a 3 to 1 vote, county supervisors in October said the county would agree to
detain illegal immigrants who had a history of committing serious or violent
crimes. But supervisors said the county would only do so if the feds paid for
the cost to keep the inmates for an extra day or two until Immigration and
Customs Enforcement officials picked them up at the jail. ICE officials balked
at the request, so these individuals are released to the community once they
finish their sentences.

While 18 of the 63 arrested in the four-day operation had DUIs on their records,
some carried more serious offenses, including for child molestation, spousal
abuse and cocaine possession. One also had a previous conviction for kidnapping.

The provocative operation potentially adds fuel to the burning debate over how
aggressively to target illegal immigrants and has pitted local officials against
each other. District Attorney Jeff Rosen and Sheriff Laurie Smith have
criticized the new policy, saying it could endanger the public.

"Those convicted of serious and violent felonies, including convictions for
child molestation and kidnapping, who are undocumented should be deported,"
Smith said.

Rosen said the 63 people arrested are "the kinds of offenders that represent a
threat to the safety of our community and it's those kinds of offenders that I
would like us to hold for ICE."

Federal law enforcement authorities said that last's week's action was not an
end-run around the county's new policy and that they arrest people routinely for
violating immigration laws.

The last time they enacted a similar "fugitive" operation targeting criminal
aliens with serious criminal backgrounds in Santa Clara County was late
September. But they noted that was part of a national operation done in
conjunction with other Northern California counties.

In this most recent case, one official who asked not to be named, said, "we
identified people recently incarcerated in Santa Clara County Jail and we
determined that they met our enforcement priorities."

The official said federal authorities use a range of databases and sources to
acquire more information about the arrestees' criminal and immigration arrest
history to help determine if the person is a deportable alien and where that
person might go after they've been released from custody.

"We develop the leads and seek to locate these people though those efforts," he
said, adding that while last week's operation was successful, it would have
netted more people if the county had allowed ICE to pick up the detainees at the
jail.

"It's much harder to find these people once they're released," he said. "And if
we have to go out and pick them up, there's a greater risk to the them, the
officers and the public in general."

Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave Cortese, one of three supervisors who voted
with Supervisors George Shirakawa Jr. and Ken Yeager to impose the policy, said
the ICE arrests prove that the feds don't need the county's help.

"We've been saying all along that it's absurd for them to ask us to detain
people 48 hours after they've done their time and are supposed to be released,"
Cortese said.

"They can pick people up whenever they want; they have their own arrest powers
and I think the fact that they just arrested 63 people proves that."

Emphasizing the potential danger of those they are trying to deport, ICE
officials said those picked up during last week's operation included:


     ·    A Mexican national convicted of felony possession of heroin for sale
          sentenced to six months in prison;



     ·    A 49-year-old male Mexican national convicted in 2011 of child
          molestation;



     ·    A 29-year-old male Mexican national with prior convictions for
          kidnapping and cocaine possession;



     ·    A 48-year-old woman from Mexico with 13 aliases who has prior felony
          convictions for forgery and misuse of an entry document. The woman,
          whom the Mercury News has learned is Rita Gonzalez Ramirez, has
          already been deported five times.


With the exception of Ramirez, who now faces a hearing for re-entry after
deportation, those arrested during the operation are being processed
administratively for removal from the country.

Those who have outstanding orders of deportation, or who returned to the United
States illegally after being deported, are subject to immediate removal from the
country. The remaining individuals will be scheduled for a hearing before an
immigration judge, ICE officials said.

Santa Clara County's new policy was a reaction to the federal Secure Communities
program, which the county tried to avoid but was forced to join in May 2010. The
program requires local jailers to share with ICE the fingerprints of everyone
booked.

Contact Sean Webby at swebby@mercurynews.com or 408-920-5003. Follow him at
twitter.com/seanwebby . Contact Tracy Seipel at tseipel@mercurynews.com or
408-275-0140.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy ICE -- Federal immigration agents taking suspected illegal
immigrants into custody during a recent operation in San Jose area.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday

New Obama administration rule lets some illegal immigrants stay as they seek
green card

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 705 words


San Francisco State graduate Heriberto Grande had to wait for three years in
Mexico before the U.S. government allowed him to rejoin his wife in San
Francisco.

Oakland teenager Karla Rodriguez missed high school classes, her sister's
wedding and family Christmas celebrations so she could go to one of the world's
most dangerous cities, Ciudad Juárez, to get her papers in order to become a
legal U.S. resident.

Stories such as these abound in Bay Area immigrant communities, but a new policy
announced Friday by the Obama administration could result in far fewer
disruptions to family life. The surprise rule change will allow some illegal
immigrants to wait in the United States, instead of their home countries, as
they seek a path to legal residency.

"Its purpose is to minimize the extent to which bureaucratic delays separate
American citizens from their families for long periods of time," said Alejandro
Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Today, Grande, 35, and Cecily Clements, 33, are happily married in San Francisco
with a 3-year-old child. But Grande was stuck in Mexico so long that the
long-distance anxiety almost caused their marriage to collapse.

"It's like there was no end in sight," said Clements, now an immigration lawyer
who helps others in similar situations. "It was really a difficult, emotional
rollercoaster."

Grande had come to the Bay Area illegally as a 15-year-old to help his family.
Clements was born here. They fell in love after meeting in their mid-20s when
both were students. They married a few years later.

"I think a lot of people have the misconception that if you marry a U.S.
citizen, it's all good, and that's a fix-all. It really depends on what country
you're from," Clements said.

The United States bars immigrants from applying for a green card for 10 years if
they have been living illegally in the country for more than a year, or for
three years if they have been unlawful residents for six months to a year. Some
can get a special waiver to bypass that obstacle if they have U.S. citizen
husbands, wives or parents who would face "extreme hardship" if they were
deported.

But to get that waiver, they have to leave the country and wait an average of
six months -- sometimes a year or more -- for the U.S. government to review
their case.

Grande had to repeatedly fly to appointments at the U.S. consulate in Juárez
from the other end of Mexico, once on the day after Christmas, and finally got a
green card in November 2007 after a three-year delay.

The long wait can be its own form of hardship on affected U.S. families, said
Mayorkas, who announced the more lenient policy. It was published Friday in the
Federal Register but must go through a public comment process.

Undocumented spouses and children of U.S. citizens will be able to stay in the
United States as their cases proceed instead of spending that time waiting
abroad, Mayorkas said.

They still have to go back to their home country to be interviewed for a green
card at a U.S. consulate, such as the one in Ciudad Juárez, but would already
know if they could bypass the years-long bar.

Leading Republicans on Friday criticized the new rule as an abuse of executive
powers.

U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who chairs the Judiciary Committee, said the
Obama administration was "bending long-established rules to put illegal
immigrants ahead of the interests of American citizens and legal immigrants.

"Congress instituted the three and 10 year bars in 1996 to provide a penalty for
immigrants who had been illegally present in the U.S. for long periods of time,"
Smith said in a written statement. "While the waiver of these bars is legal
under current law, it is not intended to be applied to millions of illegal
immigrants."

Mayorkas countered that the rule change is in the spirit of existing law and
gave an example of the type of family member who would qualify.

"A type of situation would be a U.S. citizen who suffers a grave illness, whose
sole caretaker is a son or daughter, who relies on that son or daughter for
medical care," he said. "That's the type of thing we have seen in an extreme
hardship case."

About 23,000 people applied for the waiver last year, and 17,000 were granted,
he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 30, 2012 Monday

No transplant for dying dad who is illegal immigrant

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 1268 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 2/18/2012, page A2)
An article about an illegal immigrant seeking a kidney transplant did not make
clear his status on the waiting list at UC San Francisco Medical Center at the
time it was determined he was not eligible for a transplant. According to UCSF,
which would not comment on the immigrant's case at the time the story was
written, Jesus Navarro was nearing the top of the list but his operation had not
been scheduled. UCSF publicly committed last week to helping Navarro get a
transplant, blaming "a misunderstanding" for Navarro's belief that the center
would not help him. The January article also misidentified Reece Fawley,
executive director of transplantation for UCSF. Fawley is a man.

Without a new kidney, Jesus Navarro will die.

The Oakland man has a willing donor and private insurance to pay for the
transplant. But he faces what may be an insurmountable hurdle in the race to
save his life: He is an illegal immigrant.

Administrators at UC San Francisco Medical Center are refusing to transplant a
kidney from Navarro's wife, saying there is no guarantee he will receive
adequate follow-up care, given his uncertain status.

Their decision is a stark illustration of the tension between health care and
immigration policies in the state and underscores the difficult role medical
professionals play in trying to save the lives of undocumented residents.

Though no data are available, anecdotal evidence suggests clinics sometimes
perform organ transplants on illegal immigrants, especially when the patients
are young. In one high-profile case, UCLA Medical Center gave an undocumented
woman three liver transplants before she turned 21.

But health administrators also reject patients because of their immigration
status, though that usually happens when the patients lack insurance. Bellevue
Hospital in New York attracted attention last year when it refused to transplant
a kidney between brothers because they could not pay for the operation.

It is the kind of ethical gray area that hospitals hate, said University of
Pennsylvania bioethics professor Arthur Caplan.

"It puts the doctors in a very awkward and torn position," he said. "You come
into this trying to do good and find yourself stuck in the middle of a fight
about immigration."

Immigrant advocates and some scholars say it is wrong for hospitals to withhold
health care from the seriously ill, no matter their legal status.

But proponents of tougher border enforcement -- and those fighting to contain
ballooning health care costs -- fear that providing such services could lure
more undocumented immigrants.

Matter of survival

Navarro, 35, never thought his survival would hinge on his immigration status.
He has had private insurance through Berkeley's Pacific Steel foundry for 14
years.

When his kidneys began to shut down eight years ago, he continued to work full
time. Each evening, he would cleanse his blood of lethal toxins using a home
dialysis machine.

But the soft-spoken metalworker has been growing sicker. Life expectancy for
dialysis patients hovers around six years.

This spring, the family got a call from UC San Francisco's transplant center:
Navarro had reached the top of the waitlist.

"We were so happy," recalled his wife, who went with him for the final work-up.

But in their final consultation before the surgery, Navarro said doctors
discovered his immigration status and called off the operation.

"I started crying and crying and crying," said his wife, who asked that her name
be withheld because she is also in the country illegally. She offered her own
kidney -- and was a match -- but administrators again said no.

UC San Francisco declined to comment on Navarro's case, but Reece Fawley,
executive director of transplantation, said in a statement that the clinic
evaluates all patients for socioeconomic stability.

"UCSF's policy for financial clearance requires candidates to present evidence
of adequate and stable insurance coverage or other financial sources necessary
to sustain follow-up care long after transplant surgery," she said. "Immigration
status is among many factors taken into consideration."

Navarro was caught up in an immigration audit and lost his foundry job this
month. His private insurance continues for now, and he is trying to extend it.
But he may end up in the state's Medi-Cal program.

That would deepen Navarro's dilemma. Though Medi-Cal will cover his daily
dialysis -- which costs $17,000 a month -- because of his illegal status, it
will not pay for the immunosuppressive drugs that ward off organ rejection. The
drugs cost $20,000 annually. Medi-Cal also won't pay for organ transplants for
illegal immigrants.

No guarantees

The hospital won't perform the transplant without a guarantee that the drugs and
accompanying treatment will be paid for.

Some bioethicists say the hospital should have performed the surgery because
Navarro would not be taking resources away from other patients or putting his
wife at serious risk.

After all, many legal residents fail to follow their post-surgical plan.

"Why was this patient denied the opportunity to comply?" asked Santa Clara
University bioethics professor Margaret McLean.

Other experts suggest that the possibility of saving a life should outweigh
concerns about follow-up care.

"He has the organ -- the critical resource -- if he can get it transplanted,"
said University of Southern California bioethics professor Michael Shapiro.
"That's a serious chance at life."

But critics say that providing any long-term care to illegal immigrants is
irresponsible and discourages home countries from investing in an adequate
health system.

"You just cannot provide care for illegal aliens without getting into
uncompensated care," said Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

Navarro said his chief concern is finding a job, not the quest to save his life.
But he worries for his family and takes anti-anxiety pills to sleep.

If transplant doctors working with illegal immigrants are in a bind, so are the
Navarros.

"We don't know what to do," said Navarro's wife, watching her husband chase
their 3-year-old daughter. "It's like we're on a ledge -- we can't go here or
there."

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her at Twitter.com/hannahdreier .

Increased regulation
on the horizon

The nonprofit group that manages the nation's organ transplant system is
considering increasing its oversight of transplants to noncitizens.
The United Network for Organ Sharing currently does not limit the percentage of
organs that clinics can transplant to immigrants. That is partly because
nonresidents donate more organs than they receive.
Over a 20-year period, illegal immigrants donated 2.5 percent of organs and
received fewer than 1 percent, according to a 2008 study published by the
American Medical Association.
The network does reserve the right to audit the rare clinic that gives more than
5 percent of organs to nonresident patients. The concern is that a transplant
center might start bringing in wealthy "transplant tourists" from other
countries to make money.
"Regardless of our policy, it is always the decision of any transplant center,"
said network spokesman Joel Newman.
The organization is considering a rule that would require clinics to provide
detailed accounts of the immigrants they serve and allow the organization to
review all nonresident transplants.
The goal would be to distinguish patients traveling to the United States for a
transplant from those noncitizens who live in the country and thus are more
likely to donate organs to U.S. citizens.

-- Hannah Dreier, Staff

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jesus Navarro, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, plays with his
3-year-old daughter Karen Jacquelyn while he undergoes his daily home dialysis
treatment, Monday, Jan. 9, 2012, in Oakland, Calif. (D. Ross Cameron/Staff)
Jesus Navarro, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, sits and watches TV with
his 3-year-old daughter Karen Jacquelyn and wife Angelica while he undergoes his
daily home dialysis treatment, Monday, Jan. 9, 2012, in Oakland, Calif. (D. Ross
Cameron/Staff)
Jesus Navarro, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, dons a surgical mask to
prevent infection while connecting to a machine to start his daily home dialysis
treatment, Monday, Jan. 9, 2012, in Oakland, Calif. (D. Ross Cameron/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 30, 2012 Monday

No kidney transplant for dying dad who is illegal immigrant

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 1265 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 2/18/2012, page A2)
An article about an illegal immigrant seeking a kidney transplant did not make
clear his status on the waiting list at UC San Francisco Medical Center at the
time it was determined he was not eligible for a transplant. According to UCSF,
which would not comment on the immigrant's case at the time the story was
written, Jesus Navarro was nearing the top of the list but his operation had not
been scheduled. UCSF publicly committed last week to helping Navarro get a
transplant, blaming "a misunderstanding" for Navarro's belief that the center
would not help him. The January article also misidentified Reece Fawley,
executive director of transplantation for UCSF. Fawley is a man.

Without a new kidney, Jesus Navarro will die.

The Oakland man has a willing donor and private insurance to pay for the
transplant. But he faces what may be an insurmountable hurdle in the race to
save his life: He is an illegal immigrant.

Administrators at UC San Francisco Medical Center are refusing to transplant a
kidney from Navarro's wife, saying there is no guarantee he will receive
adequate follow-up care, given his uncertain status.

Their decision is a stark illustration of the tension between health care and
immigration policies in the state and underscores the difficult role medical
professionals play in trying to save the lives of undocumented residents.

Though no data are available, anecdotal evidence suggests clinics sometimes
perform organ transplants on illegal immigrants, especially when the patients
are young. In one high-profile case, UCLA Medical Center gave an undocumented
woman three liver transplants before she turned 21.

But health administrators also reject patients because of their immigration
status, though that usually happens when the patients lack insurance. Bellevue
Hospital in New York attracted attention last year when it refused to transplant
a kidney between brothers because they could not pay for the operation.

It is the kind of ethical gray area that hospitals hate, said University of
Pennsylvania bioethics professor Arthur Caplan.

"It puts the doctors in a very awkward and torn position," he said. "You come
into this trying to do good and find yourself stuck in the middle of a fight
about immigration."

Immigrant advocates and some scholars say it is wrong for hospitals to withhold
health care from the seriously ill, no matter their legal status.

But proponents of tougher border enforcement -- and those fighting to contain
ballooning health care costs -- fear that providing such services could lure
more undocumented immigrants.

Navarro, 35, never thought his survival would hinge on his immigration status.
He has had private insurance through Berkeley's Pacific Steel foundry for 14
years.

When his kidneys began to shut down eight years ago, he continued to work full
time. Each evening, he would cleanse his blood of lethal toxins using a home
dialysis machine.

But the soft-spoken metalworker has been growing sicker. Life expectancy for
dialysis patients hovers around six years.

This spring, the family got a call from UCSF's transplant center: Navarro was
nearing the top of the waitlist.

"We were so happy," recalled his wife, who went with him for the final work-up.

But in their final consultation before the surgery, Navarro said doctors
discovered his immigration status and decided he was ineligible for a
transplant.

"I started crying and crying and crying," said his wife, who asked that her name
be withheld because she is also in the country illegally. She offered her own
kidney -- and was a match -- but administrators again said no.

UCSF declined to comment on Navarro's case, but Executive Director of
Transplantation Reece Fawley said in a statement that the clinic evaluates all
patients for socioeconomic stability.

"UCSF's policy for financial clearance requires candidates to present evidence
of adequate and stable insurance coverage or other financial sources necessary
to sustain follow-up care long after transplant surgery," he said. "Immigration
status is among many factors taken into consideration."

Navarro was caught up in an immigration audit and lost his foundry job earlier
this month. His private insurance continues for now, and he is trying to extend
it. But he may well end up on the state's Medi-Cal program.

That would deepen Navarro's dilemma. While Medi-Cal will cover his daily
dialysis -- which now costs $17,000 a month -- because of his illegal status, it
will not pay for the immunosuppressive drugs that ward off organ rejection. The
drugs cost $20,000 annually. Medi-Cal also won't pay for organ transplants for
illegal immigrants.

The hospital won't perform the transplant without a guarantee that the drugs and
accompanying treatment will be paid for.

Some bioethicists say the hospital should have performed the surgery because
Navarro would not be taking resources away from other patients or putting his
wife at serious risk.

After all, many legal residents fail to follow their post-surgical plan.

"Why was this patient denied the opportunity to comply?" asked Santa Clara
University bioethics professor Margaret McLean.

Other experts suggest that the possibility of saving a life should outweigh
concerns about follow-up care.

"He has the organ -- the critical resource -- if he can get it transplanted,"
said University of Southern California bioethics professor Michael Shapiro.
"That's a serious chance at life."

But critics say that providing any long-term care to illegal immigrants is
irresponsible and discourages home countries from investing in an adequate
health system.

"You just cannot provide care for illegal aliens without getting into
uncompensated care," said Bob Dane of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform.

Navarro says his chief concern is finding a new job, not the quest to save his
life. But he also worries for his family and takes anti-anxiety pills to sleep.

If transplant doctors working with illegal immigrants are in a bind, so are the
Navarros.

"We don't know what to do," said Navarro's wife, watching her husband chase
after their 3-year-old daughter. "It's like we're on a ledge -- we can't go here
or there."

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her atTwitter.com/hannahdreier

Increased regulation on the horizon

The nonprofit group that manages the nation's organ transplant system is
considering increasing its oversight of transplants to noncitizens.
The United Network for Organ Sharing currently does not limit the percentage of
organs that clinics can transplant to immigrants. That is partly because
nonresidents donate more organs than they receive.
Over a 20-year period, illegal immigrants donated 2.5 percent of organs and
received fewer than 1 percent, according to a 2008 study published by the
American Medical Association.
The network reserves the right to audit the rare clinic that gives more than 5
percent of organs to nonresident patients. The concern is that a transplant
center might start bringing in wealthy "transplant tourists" from other
countries to make money.
"Regardless of our policy, it is always the decision of any transplant center,"
said network spokesman Joel Newman.
The organization is considering a new rule that would require clinics to provide
detailed accounts of the immigrants they serve and allow the organization to
review all nonresident transplants.
The goal would be to distinguish patients traveling to the United States for a
transplant from those noncitizens who live in the country and thus are more
likely to donate organs to U.S. citizens.

-- Hannah Dreier

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jesus Navarro, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, dons a surgical
mask to prevent infection while connecting to a machine to start his daily home
dialysis treatment, Monday, Jan. 9, 2012, in Oakland, Calif. (D. Ross
Cameron/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Support flows in for dying father who is illegal immigrant

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 372 words


An Oakland father who was denied the transplant he needs to live because of his
immigration status now has a host of supporters.

After reading a story by this newspaper about his plight this week, city
leaders, immigration lawyers, advocacy organizations and individual residents
began looking for ways to help save the 35-year-old's life.

Jesus Navarro has a donor match in his wife and private insurance to pay for a
kidney transplant. But UC San Francisco Medical Center refuses to perform the
operation because administrators cannot be sure he will be able to afford
follow-up care given his status as an illegal immigrant.

On Tuesday, a number of residents from San Jose to Brentwood to Phoenix, Ariz.,
pledged their time and money to help Navarro, who has a 3-year-old daughter.

Among them was Donald Kagan, who is a partner at a Berkeley technology firm. He
received a kidney transplant at UCSF in 2010.

"Ever since then, I feel like I need to give back to those that aren't as
fortunate as I am," he said.

Kagan met with Navarro on Tuesday and worked with a social worker to make sure
he will be able to keep up his private insurance. Navarro was caught up in an
immigration audit and lost his job at Berkeley's Pacific Steel, where he worked
for 14 years.

Oakland Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente and San Jose Councilman Donald Rocha
also pledged their help.

The Bay Area's Interfaith Coalition for Immigrant Rights is preparing a
delegation of faith leaders to discuss transplant issues with UCSF.

The national petition group Change.org is also interested in helping lobby the
hospital. Change.org is best known for launching the campaign that helped
convince Bank of America to drop its monthly debit-card fee plan.

"What caught my attention was that it's such an urgent story," said Jackie
Mahendra, director of Organizing for Immigrant Rights. "Without a kidney, this
man will actually die."

Navarro, who had not had any contact with nonprofit groups before this week,
said he was overwhelmed by the show of support.

"I'm just grateful for everything," he said.

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her at Twitter.com/hannahdreier .

If you want to help

Those interested in helping the family can Navarro's friends at 510-982-0604.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jesus Navarro, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico, dons a surgical
mask to prevent infection while connecting to a machine to start his daily home
dialysis treatment, Monday, Jan. 9, 2012, in Oakland, Calif. (D. Ross
Cameron/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Starting from Golden Gate, Dream Act students make election statement in
cross-country walk

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 1015 words


As they step onto the Golden Gate Bridge on Saturday to begin an eight-month
walk across the country, undocumented student activists hope to inject the Dream
Act into the heart of the 2012 presidential race.

Empowered by a long-fought campaign for citizenship and disappointed by its
crashing 2010 defeat, young illegal immigrants around the country are using a
variety of tactics to keep their mission in the election limelight.

Some are stalking Republican front-runner Mitt Romney on the campaign trail,
where they were escorted out of a Boston hotel ballroom after shouting "Veto
Romney! Not the Dream Act!" during his Super Tuesday speech. Another group is
launching a less-confrontational strategy from the Bay Area this weekend.

The team of four -- three of them illegal immigrants -- will cross by foot
through 13 states. They hope to reach the National Mall just days before the
November election.

"We're going through these rural communities in America. We really want to
change minds, change hearts," said Lucas da Silva, 23, whose parents brought him
to the United States from Brazil when he was a year old.

The Florida resident's story is a familiar one in the decadelong campaign for
the Dream Act, a bill that would allow the youths to become legal residents if
they graduate from college or join the military.

And with the debate over America's estimated 11 million illegal immigrants
likely to play a role in the election, da Silva hopes some will hear his side as
he walks 10 hours a day, from town to town, talking to anyone who will listen.

Rude awakening

When he was a teenager, da Silva woke up one morning, rushed into his parents'
bedroom and eagerly told them he was ready to get his driver's permit. They
looked at each other before breaking the news.

"I had grown up thinking I was completely American, and then all of a sudden my
parents told me I wasn't," he said.

Romney has pledged to veto the Dream Act if it falls on his desk, while
President Barack Obama has endorsed it but was unable to persuade a Democrat-led
Congress to pass it just before Republicans took control. The House of
Representatives passed the legislation in December 2010 but it fell short of the
60 votes it needed in the Senate.

"Obviously, Mitt Romney is taking more of a tough stance on immigration than
some of his opponents have taken. It's going to be difficult for certain Latinos
to cast that vote" for him, said Hector Barajas, a Sacramento political
consultant whom Romney tapped for his national Hispanic Steering Committee.
Polls show about 90 percent of the Latino electorate, a critical voting bloc,
supports the Dream Act.

Electoral frustration

Barajas disagrees with Romney on the Dream Act, but says Democrats have done
little to advance the students' cause and he echoes other GOP Latino activists
who are trying to put the president on the immigration defensive. Latinos are
frustrated, he said, by the Obama administration's record-high deportations that
have only recently begun to abate.

"They use these kids -- this is the most heartbreaking thing -- is they use
these kids as their own little political tool," Barajas said.

One solution, said Barajas, is for more of the students to share their stories
so that "people see you as kids, people can see you as students, and people can
see you as professionals."

Da Silva says that's what he's doing.

Funded by a Florida-based migrant farmworker organization, Harvest of Hope, the
trek from San Francisco to Washington, D.C., is not an impromptu effort. Donors
have equipped the walkers with new sneakers and a van that will follow them and
drive them through tougher stretches. A committee interviewed and carefully
selected the four 20-somethings months in advance from a larger pool of
applicants.

Network of support

One of many local allies, Berkeley resident Martha Dueñas found them a place to
stay before their launch, first in her home and later at a Lutheran Church near
the UC Berkeley campus. Another church -- an Episcopal one -- will house them in
the Contra Costa hamlet of Crockett before they cross the Carquinez Strait
headed toward Nevada.

"They're willing to put a lot on the line," said Dueñas, organizer for the Share
Foundation, a Salvadoran-American nonprofit. "When people put a face to this
group of undocumented students, it will make a difference."

Da Silva's fellow trekkers include Jonatan Martinez, 25, a Mexican native with a
Georgian drawl who learned about his immigration status as a teenage Coast Guard
recruit; and Chicago resident Nico Gonzalez, who at 25 is already a veteran of
the Dream Act movement.

Gonzalez was arrested at a July sit-in at the office of Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev., and again outside the Alabama Statehouse.

The fourth walker is Utah-born Raymi Gutierrez, the first American citizen in
her Salt Lake City family.

"Half my family is undocumented," she said.

The students have already won some support in Silicon Valley.

While some organizations help the students fight their political battle, a group
of Silicon Valley tech entrepreneurs donated hundreds of thousands of dollars in
the past year to help students pay for college and get legal advice that could
help them stay in the United States, said Katharine Gin, of San Francisco-based
Educators for Fair Consideration.

"Perhaps the reason tech industry people want to help these young adults is we
value intellect, we value initiative, and we value hard work," said Palm Pilot
inventor Jeff Hawkins, one of the donors, in a written statement. "We see in
these kids the attributes that are valued in the entrepreneurial world."

Contact Matt O'Brien at 925-977-8463. Follow him at Twitter.com/mattoyeah .

About the "Dream Walk"

Four Dream Act activists from Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Utah take off at 1
p.m. Saturday from Vista Point in Sausalito and will cross the Golden Gate
Bridge to begin an eight-month walk across the country.
At 5:30 p.m. Saturday, former journalist Jose Antonio Vargas, who announced last
year he was living in the United States illegally, will give a speech at UC
Berkeley's Sproul Plaza.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (all names cq) DREAM Act protestors gather at the University of
California, Berkeley at Sather Gate and hold a press conference to announce
their walk across America for the DREAM Act on Thursday March 8, 2012, in
Berkeley, Calif. The four that will be walking are from left, Nicolas Gonzalez,
25, in leather jacket, Raymi Gutierrez, 22, Jonatan Martinez, 25, and Lucas Da
Silva,23, as they gather with supporters. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)
(all names cq) DREAM Act protestors gather at the University of California,
Berkeley at Sather Gate and hold a press conference to announce their walk
across America for the DREAM Act on Thursday March 8, 2012, in Berkeley, Calif.
The four that will be walking are from left, Nicolas Gonzalez, 25, Raymi
Gutierrez 22, and Jonatan Martinez, and Lucas Da Silva 23 who tells the crowd
how he found out he was not a US citizen when he asked his parents to take him
to get his drivers permit. (Susan Tripp Pollard/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday

Ruben Navarrette: A standard turned upside down

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 585 words


SAN DIEGO -- Whenever I hear stories such as that of Daniela Pelaez, the illegal
immigrant and valedictorian at a Miami high school who was slated for
deportation to Colombia by the Obama administration, I get depressed.

Not because a young person with a bright future was facing the threat of removal
from the United States.

I'm pretty hard-nosed about deporting illegal immigrants -- as long as it is
done out in the open, according to the rules, without the help of local and
state police, and not to serve a political objective by making a president
appear tough on illegal immigration. By the way, the Obama administration has
failed all four tests.

While having good grades is swell, it isn't the same as having a green card. Why
should class valedictorians be given preferential treatment by immigration
officials when student body presidents, star athletes and homecoming queens
don't receive special dispensation? And what about those kids who struggle in
school and drop out? Should we deport them first?

The real reason these stories are depressing is because they are so often
politicized. Democrats respond by talking about the need to pass the DREAM Act,
which would offer legal status to undocumented students who go to college or
join the military, without mentioning the inconvenient fact that the last time
the bill came up for a vote, in December 2010, it was five Senate Democrats
whose "no" votes killed it.

Meanwhile, most Republicans also oppose the DREAM Act. Yet in high-profile cases
such as Pelaez's, it's not unusual to see a few of them splinter off and support
efforts to stop a valedictorian from being deported. What sense does this make?
None, until you realize that what scares the GOP is volume -- that hundreds of
thousands of people could be legalized, become citizens, get the right to vote
and punish Republicans at election time for the next half-century.

I can do without the dishonesty and political games. Why not just tell the truth
instead of pretending you really care what happens to these kids? I can also do
without the drama. When a judge ruled that 18-year-old Pelaez -- whose family
overstayed a tourist visa in 1998, and who was later denied green cards -- had
to return to Colombia, nearly all of her 2,600 high school classmates staged a
walkout in protest.

Everyone can bring it down a notch. Pelaez was recently granted a two-year
reprieve by ICE officials.

By way of explanation, the feds released a statement that read: "ICE is focused
on smart, effective immigration enforcement that prioritizes the removal of
criminal aliens, recent border crossers and egregious immigration law
violators."

Like most things that come out of the Obama administration regarding
immigration, this statement is untrue. In the past three years, immigration
officials have deported plenty of "noncriminals" -- everyone from housekeepers
to gardeners to college students.

Meanwhile, Pelaez doesn't seem very surprised by her reprieve.

"I'm American," she told NBC Miami last week. "I know the national anthem. I
know the laws. I know what it is to be an American."

Pelaez knows what she wants to do after graduating from high school. She intends
to go to an Ivy League school and become a doctor.

Given what she has seen firsthand about how elected officials will manipulate
tragic and desperate situations for their own benefit, it's not surprising that
she doesn't want to be a politician. After all, better to save lives than play
with them.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday

Owners of El Balazo taqueria chain sentenced for immigration and tax fraud

BYLINE: By Robert Salonga, Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 592 words


A beloved taqueria chain that once spanned the Bay Area has been whittled to
one, crumbling under the weight of a federal probe that ended with its owners
getting sentenced this week for hiring illegal immigrants and hiding their wages
from the IRS.

The entrepreneurial feel-good story of El Balazo collapsed for good Tuesday,
when Marino Sandoval, 59, was sentenced to 41 months in prison. His wife,
51-year-old Nicole Sandoval, was sentenced to five years of probation and one
year of community confinement, according to federal prosecutors. The Pleasanton
couple was also ordered to pay $2,216,010 in restitution to the IRS.

The Sandovals could not be reached, and their attorney did not return a message
by late Thursday.

In its heyday, the El Balazo chain boasted 11 locations covering San Francisco,
Concord, Danville, Lafayette, Pleasanton and San Ramon, with one of the San
Ramon spots featuring the eponymous Marino's Bar. Since then, all but the
original Haight Street location in San Francisco have been shuttered or are
under new ownership.

The first signs of trouble surfaced in March 2008 when IRS agents executed
search warrants at several of the restaurants. That was followed by a massive
Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid across the chain that resulted in the
arrests of 63 illegal immigrants.

The raids were met with some outrage, particularly in San Francisco, where
advocates for the arrestees argued that the actions violated the city's "safe
haven" policies for undocumented immigrants. Some locations briefly shut down
after the raids, and did so again in 2010 after the chain fell behind on its
taxes.

Sandoval himself moved from Mexico to Alameda with his family when he was a
child. In 1976, after gaining experience working at his brother-in-law's San
Francisco deli, he opened his own deli, the Golden Gate Fryer, in the Financial
district, selling his house to finance the enterprise.

After five years he sold the business to his brother and took a job with the
Sysco food company. But the restaurant itch came calling again in 1993, when he
opened the first El Balazo on Haight Street. In a 2005 interview with this
newspaper, Sandoval said the name, which means "the gunshot" in Spanish, had
been aimed to impart speedy food service, but soon the eatery was lauded for its
authentic flavors on top of its fast delivery.

Sandoval leveraged the restaurant's popularity to expand to the East Bay
suburbs, opening Nicole's Diner in 1995 in San Ramon.

Over the next decade the couple opened multiple restaurants in Danville and
Pleasanton.

But their worker base aroused suspicion and eventually a federal investigation.
By the time it was over, Marino Sandoval had admitted to federal prosecutors
that he knowingly hired employees not legally authorized to work in the United
States. Between 2007 and 2008, prosecutors said, the chain employed more than
100 illegal immigrants.

After federal authorities confronted Marino Sandoval with their findings, he
rehired at least 10 of the unauthorized employees, prosecutors said.

Nicole Sandoval would later admit to underreporting employees' wages to decrease
the businesses' tax burdens and providing false Social Security numbers for
them.

The scrutiny would also ensnare Sandoval's brother, Francisco Sandoval, 56, of
Alameda, the former manager of the San Francisco location. He was sentenced in
December 2010 to three years of probation and ordered to pay $50,000 to the IRS.

Robert Salonga covers public safety. Contact him at 925-943-8013. Follow him
atTwitter.com/robertsalonga .

---

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

California Supreme Court to decide if illegal immigrant can practice law

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 265 words


The California Supreme Court agreed Wednesday to consider whether the State Bar
has the authority to license an undocumented immigrant and allow him to become a
practicing lawyer.

In their weekly closed-door conference, the justices unanimously decided to
consider the case of Sergio Garcia, an undocumented immigrant from Mexico who
graduated from Chico State University, a Florida law school and passed the State
Bar exam in July 2009 but has been stalled in his bid to secure his California
law license.

A State Bar committee concluded that Garcia should be admitted to practice law
in California, but the issue is up to the state Supreme Court. The justices
indicated they must explore a host of legal issues to resolve the question. They
asked for legal arguments from a range of groups, including California Attorney
General Kamala Harris and the U.S. government.

There are questions about whether illegal immigrants, under federal immigration
law, have a legal right to be approved for professional licenses such as those
permitting the practice of law in a state. In its order, the California Supreme
Court asked for legal arguments on whether it has the authority to permit Garcia
to be licensed under that federal law.

The Daily Journal, a legal newspaper, reported last year that Garcia was brought
to the U.S. by his parents at 17 months old and has been waiting for more than a
decade for a green card. Garcia, according to the account, is being sponsored
for legal status by a relative.

Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236 or follow him
atTwitter.com/hmintz .

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday
                              Correction Appended

President Barack Obama gives reprieve to young illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 1149 words


Bypassing Congress on one of the country's most contentious issues, President
Barack Obama said Friday he will stop deporting young illegal immigrants and
grant tens of thousands of them work permits if they came to the United States
as children.

The surprise announcement provided an election-year gift to immigrant
communities frustrated by the fast pace of deportations, but it enraged many
hard-liners who called it another example of backdoor amnesty.

"We are a better nation than one that expels innocent young kids," Obama said at
a White House news conference.

The executive order was Obama's latest concession to the liberal base that
helped elect him four years ago but has been frustrated by his slow response to
issues such as same-sex marriage and immigration reform.

Obama last month announced his support for same-sex marriage, resetting fraying
relations with his gay and lesbian supporters. But unlike that statement, the
immigration order immediately affects tens of thousands of people.

The announcement came less than a day after a small group of undocumented
students took over Obama's campaign office in Oakland and spent the night,
refusing to leave until he stopped deporting people like them. A similar protest
in Denver last week inspired them.

"We are very excited. We are very happy," protester Blanca Vazquez said shortly
after waking up on a couch in the campaign office Friday morning to news the
president was meeting many of her demands.

The new policy could benefit the four protesting college students and thousands
of undocumented children and young adults in the Bay Area and as many as 1
million people nationwide, according to lawyers and research groups.

Under the policy first revealed Friday in a Department of Homeland Security
order to immigration and customs agency chiefs, illegal immigrants can have a
two-year stay of deportation and obtain work permits if they: are younger than
30 and came to the country before they turned 16; have lived in the United
States for at least five years; graduated from high school, served in the
military or are in school; and have not been convicted of a felony or serious
misdemeanor.

The immunity resembles the Dream Act, a long-sought bill that has never been
able to get through Congress, but differs in one important way: Its
beneficiaries will not step onto the path toward legal residency or citizenship.
They will be protected from deportation and can live, work and study freely for
the next two years.

"They are in limbo, but they're unequivocally in a better position now," said
Oakland immigration lawyer Jesse Lloyd, who leads the Northern California
chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "It gives a lot of
people a real window, a chance to work."

Still, many remained wary because the promised relief is temporary, and a new
president could reverse a previous one's executive order.

"This is a good step forward but we want to make sure we have firmly made that
step," said Vazquez, who has been living in the United States since she was 6
months old. The 22-year-old San Francisco State student said she would not open
the locked doors to the Obama for America office on Telegraph Avenue until
lawyers confirm that her team could get a reprieve.

Lloyd said thousands of Bay Area immigrants will benefit. The Department of
Homeland Security anticipates up to 800,000 people will qualify, and the Pew
Hispanic Center estimates the new policy could relieve 1.4 million young people
nationwide.

"This is an important and courageous act by President Obama, especially in an
election year," said UC Berkeley's outgoing chancellor, Robert Birgeneau, who
had publicly supported passage of the Dream Act.

As of Friday morning, lawyers said, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
had begun screening the people they arrest to see if they qualify for the new
relief. Some immigrants with pending deportations will get immediate relief,
while others in the shadows will have to come forward to the government to get
the work permits.

Undocumented immigrant activists across the Bay Area lauded the news Friday even
as they remained uncertain about how it would affect them.

Incoming UC Berkeley student Alfredo Colonel, of Brentwood, said he was excited
about the chance to be able to study without fearing deportation. But he had
questions.

"What I'm skeptical about is what happens after the two years," said Colonel,
24, who transfers to the university in the fall from Diablo Valley College. "Do
I get to stay? Will I be processed for deportation? There are a lot of loose
ends."

Concerns about such uncertainty were echoed by Obama's Republican opponent,
presidential contender Mitt Romney, at a campaign stop in New Hampshire.

"I believe the status of young people who come here through no fault of their
own is an important matter to be considered, and should be solved on a long-term
basis so they know what their future would be in this country," Romney said,
according to CNN.

Romney pledged during his primary campaign he would veto the Dream Act if he
were president but has since expressed support for similar legislation if it has
more restrictions. He criticized Obama for the short-term executive order
announced Friday, saying future presidents could reverse it.

Other Republicans accused Obama of pandering to his base and to the Latino
electorate that will be critical in swing states.

Immigrant advocates celebrated the executive move they have been asking for
since Republicans defeated the Dream Act in Congress almost two years ago.

"It is a refreshing and great temporary solution," said lawyer Anoop Prasad of
San Francisco's Asian Law Caucus. "We first asked the White House to implement
this policy back in 2010. They said no, we don't have the legal authority to do
this."

Prasad believes the activists in the Bay Area and elsewhere made a difference in
changing Obama's mind.

Staff writer Kristin Bender contributed to this story. Contact Matt O'Brien at
510-293-2465.

Came to the United States when they were younger than 16. Has continuously lived
in the United States for at least five years as of June 15. Is in school, has
graduated from high school, has obtained a general education development
certificate, or is an honorably discharged veteran of the Coast Guard or Armed
Forces of the United States. Has not been convicted of a felony offense, a
significant misdemeanor offense, multiple misdemeanor offenses, or otherwise is
not a threat to national security or public safety.

Source: Department of Homeland Security

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2012



CORRECTION: A front page story Saturday about a new Obama administration
immigration policy incorrectly described the change as an executive order. The
order is an administrative directive from the Department of Homeland Security.
Executive orders are presidential orders that must be filed in the Federal
Register, which this was not.

GRAPHIC: Lorena Tule-Romain, right, tries to hold back tears of joy, as Ramiro
Luna talks to the media following the announcement by President Barack Obama
that his administration will stop deporting and begin giving work permits to
younger illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children and have since led
law-abiding lives. Luna and Tule-Romain, and other Dream Team members and
supporters, gathered at the offices of Domingo Garcia in Dallas, Texas, Friday,
June 15, 2012. (Brad Loper/Dallas Morning News/MCT)
President Barack Obama delivers remarks about the Department of Homeland
Security's recent announcement about deportation of illegal immigrants in the
Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, D.C., Friday, June 15, 2012. With
the DREAM Act unable to gain traction in Congress, Obama announced his
administration would stop deporting some young people who came to U.S. as
children of illegal immigrants. (Olivier Douliery/Abaca Press/MCT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Undocumented students occupy Obama's Oakland headquarters

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 361 words


A group of undocumented immigrants has occupied President Barack Obama's
campaign office in downtown Oakland, refusing to leave until his administration
stops deporting students.

"We're going to stay here as long as we can," said Luis Serrano, 24, speaking by
cell phone Thursday evening from inside the Telegraph Avenue storefront where he
and other students were staging a sit-in.

Serrano, three other illegal immigrant students and a supporter walked into the
Obama for America office on Thursday afternoon pretending to be campaign
volunteers.

"They said they were going to do some phone banking and donations," said
activist Krsna Avila of the National Immigrant Youth Alliance, which organized
the protest.

Soon after arriving, however, the students plopped down, put graduation caps on
their heads and informed local campaign workers they would not leave until Obama
changed his deportation policy.

"We're asking him not to deport these students," Avila said.

The Obama campaign has not yet sought to kick them out, and instead hired a
local security firm to keep watch over the students and the office overnight.
Security guards could be seen in a heated discussion with the protesters inside
the building on Thursday evening.

On the front door of the office the protesters put up a sign: "Closed due to
deportations."

The sit-in is part of a national campaign to disrupt Democratic campaign
offices. Protesters want an executive order from Obama halting deportations of
young people brought to the country illegally when they were minors.

Students took over Obama's Denver campaign headquarters in a similar protest
last week, sparking a round of sit-ins now erupting in Los Angeles, Michigan and
Ohio.

"Our communities are being empowered by what we're doing," said Blanca Vazquez,
22, also speaking by phone from inside the building.

The San Francisco State student from Oakland said she has been living in the
United States since she was 6 months old but has been unable to get legal
residency.

"We have to stand up. We can't be afraid anymore. We've gone through generations
of people being afraid, staying quiet," Vazquez said. That, she said, "is not
working anymore."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

State Attorney General Kamala Harris backs undocumented immigrant's law license
bid

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 278 words


California Attorney General Kamala Harris on Wednesday sided with an
undocumented immigrant's bid to become a lawyer, telling the state Supreme Court
that the law school graduate has a legal right to get his license to practice.

In a brief filed in the Supreme Court, Harris backed the cause of Sergio Garcia,
a 35-year-old Chico area man whose immigration status has clouded his right to
be licensed by the State Bar. The Supreme Court has agreed to hear the case, and
it invited Harris' legal views on whether state or federal laws forbid licensing
an undocumented immigrant.

"No law or policy prevents this court from admitting Garcia to the State Bar,"
the attorney general's office wrote. "In fact, admitting Garcia to the Bar would
be consistent with state and federal policy that encourages immigrants, both
documented and undocumented, to contribute to society."

The State Bar Board of Examiners also has recommended that the Supreme Court
allow Garcia to be licensed.

Garcia originally came to the United States as a toddler and returned to Mexico
at around eight-years old, returning here for good when he was 17 to finish high
school. He has been waiting 18 years for his visa; his father and most of his
siblings are already U.S. citizens.

The state Supreme Court also asked the Obama administration for its view on
whether federal law bars the license, but government lawyers on Wednesday asked
for several more weeks to respond.

Critics say an undocumented immigrant should not have the legal right to be a
licensed lawyer. A similar case is unfolding in Florida.

Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236 or follow him
atTwitter.com/hmintz

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Immigrant work permit advocate to visit Fremont

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; Alameda County; Special Reports; News;
Local

LENGTH: 193 words


FREMONT   A Coachella Valley lawmaker will visit the Bay Area this week
promoting his plan to give special work permits to California's farm and service
workers who are in the country illegally.

Assemblyman Manuel Pérez, D-Indio, will stop at a Fremont church on Saturday to
build support for the bill he introduced in the Legislature earlier this year.

The measure would make California the first state to grant its own work permits
to undocumented immigrant laborers if they meet certain requirements and pay a
state fee. Most estimates show at least half of California's farm workers are
immigrants here illegally.

Pérez introduced the bill in January but pulled it back several weeks ago to
talk more with farmers and labor and industry groups about the plan, spokeswoman
Amy Wilson said.

"He just didn't want to rush it, basically," Wilson said, explaining that Pérez
plans to introduce another bill with slight amendments after the Assembly's
summer recess ends.

Pérez will hold Spanish-language meetings in Fresno and Salinas before his visit
to the East Bay on Saturday. The Fremont meeting begins at 5:30 p.m. at Our Lady
of Guadalupe Church, 41933 Blacow Rd.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Mexico to aid undocumented immigrant youths at 50 consular offices across U.S.

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 292 words


The Mexican Embassy on Monday opened the doors to its San Jose, San Francisco
and 48 other consular offices across the United States to undocumented immigrant
youths seeking work permits and deportation relief through a new Obama
administration directive.

The U.S. government won't begin accepting deportation relief applications until
Aug. 15, but the Mexican government will help eligible young people apply by
giving them information and ensuring they have the proper documents, said Juan
Carlos Lara-Armienta, the Mexican Embassy's head of Latino affairs.

The relief directive from the Department of Homeland Security could benefit more
than 1 million people 30 years old or younger who were brought to the country
illegally as children, most of them from Mexico.

The Mexican Embassy partnered with a U.S. immigrant advocacy group, the United
We Dream Network, and has been co-hosting community workshops around the Bay
Area and country. More than 200 people crowded an Antioch forum on Friday.

Consular officials are making sure those born in Mexico have a Mexican passport
that proves who they are to qualify for the relief directive, said Gabriela
Márdero, spokeswoman for the Mexican Consulate in San Francisco.

"Most of these people don't have an ID," she said. "They have a birth
certificate, but the birth certificate doesn't have a photo."

Mexican passports can cost between $74 and $101 depending on how long they last
before expiring, said Ana María Osorio, spokeswoman for the Mexican Consulate in
San Jose.

Her office is having its next workshop from 5 to 7 p.m. Tuesday at the Our Lady
of Guadalupe Church, 2020 E. San Antonio St. in San Jose.

United We Dream is also working with other foreign embassies from Latin America
and the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

My Word: Issuing municipal ID cards is good public policy

BYLINE: By Jerson Moran Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 471 words


They are our relatives, our friends, our classmates and our co-workers.
Undocumented immigrants are a part of our community, but cannot take part of
everyday things we take for granted, such as going to the bank.

Municipal identification cards can help and give those who are undocumented an
ID so that they can take part in more of our community, just like the rest of
us.

Municipal IDs are cards given by the local government to residents who have
trouble getting state-issued IDs, including the homeless, runaway youths and
undocumented immigrants.

Municipal ID is a good program because it helps those without easy access to an
ID to become more involved to get access to basic services, and it also has
economic and public safety benefits for the whole community.

One of the benefits of municipal ID is that is gives an undocumented person the
ability to open a bank account.

Without an ID, a person who is undocumented usually has to go cash their checks
at a liquor store or check cashing center at predatory rates. So that's less
money in the pockets of undocumented immigrants to spend at our local stores.

Another benefit would be more money deposited in the bank, which will be used to
further invest in the economy.

Having municipal ID will help the economy grow and be more successful.

Another reason why municipal ID is good is that it makes the community safer.
For example, an undocumented immigrant without access to a bank will carry large
amounts of cash on them where ever they go since they do not have an ATM card.

This makes them targets for assaults and robberies, which are usually not
reported.

Municipal ID would help lower the numbers of "walking ATMs," and undocumented
immigrants will no longer have to walk around in fear.

Municipal ID will also make the community safer because an undocumented
immigrant will not have to be afraid to talk to police, if they witness a crime.

Without official identification, many undocumented immigrants are afraid of
anyone in the government, especially police, because they can ask for IDs, which
could mean deportation.

Municipal ID will build trust and cooperation between the undocumented
population and the police, increasing crime reporting and preventing crime,
which will make everyone safer.

I have been researching municipal ID and I am happy that Oakland is closer to
having the program like San Francisco.

Municipal ID will be beneficial to everyone and make our communities safer and
inclusive. It's important that Oakland continue to lead the way in the East Bay
because other cities, including Berkeley, are exploring the issue and hope to
adopt a similar program and share resources.

Jerson Moran is a Coro Exploring Leadership Fellow in the office of Berkeley
City Councilman Jesse Arreguin. He will also be a junior at Oakland Technical
High School this fall.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

Biggest immigration relief in a generation begins Wednesday

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 974 words


The most expansive immigration relief policy in 25 years will begin Wednesday,
when thousands of young illegal immigrants in the Bay Area and nationwide are
expected to apply for work permits granted by the Obama administration.

No lines will be forming at immigration offices in Oakland, San Jose and other
cities. Instead, anyone interested must sign up online for work permits and
protection from deportation. The forms are expected to be posted on the U.S.
Citizen and Immigration Services website Wednesday.

"There's some who are planning to do it immediately. They've gathered most of
their documents," said Zaira Sierra, who earlier this summer formed a group of
young Latinos who are helping each other prepare for the big day.

"Others are going to wait," the 23-year-old Richmond resident added. "They're
unsure if it's going to work out. They have doubts about it or are scared about
applying."

It's not just the online application that makes the new "deferred action for
childhood arrivals" policy differ significantly from the largest ever
immigration amnesty, which President Ronald Reagan signed into law in 1986. The
new policy is an administrative directive from the Department of Homeland
Security, not a law passed through Congress, and its benefits are more modest
and less clear.

Illegal immigrants became legal through the 1986 law because Congress allowed
them to apply for green cards that granted them permanent legal residency,
followed five years later by eligibility for citizenship.

This time, beneficiaries will have no such rights. They can receive a two-year,
renewable permit to join the workforce and a promise that they won't be deported
if they meet guidelines regarding their age, education and adherence to laws.

The benefits are not permanent, but Sierra said the $465 cost to apply is worth
not having to fear that a routine police stop could get her deported to Mexico.

"I drive sometimes, but it's always nerve-racking because you never know when
you'll be pulled over," the Berkeley City College student said.

Another big difference between now and 25 years ago is the population that will
receive relief. The 1980s amnesty had one phase targeting farm workers and
another targeting longtime U.S. residents, but it had no age restrictions. About
2.7 million people obtained green cards, many of them Californians and most born
in Mexico.

The new leniency is strictly for immigrants younger than 31 who were brought to
the United States as children. An estimated 800,000 to 1.8 million people could
be eligible. Californians and Mexican-born immigrants are still the largest
groups, but the undocumented population has grown more diverse and
geographically dispersed.

"It's the right thing to do," President Barack Obama said when he announced the
new policy in June. He blamed Republicans for blocking passage of the
long-sought, formerly bipartisan Dream Act that would have granted permanent
benefits -- a green card, a path to citizenship -- to the young immigrants.

But the legacy of Reagan's amnesty lingers in the political debate over illegal
immigration; for Kathleen Barnes, that should have been the last chance.

"If you're here illegally, I think you should go home," said the 47-year-old
unemployed tech worker from Santa Clara. "These kids who came in, it's very sad,
but it's their parents who are to blame."

Barnes was disturbed by a study this month that estimated about 65,000 Bay Area
immigrants could be eligible for work permits now or as they age.

She belongs to Numbers USA, a national organization that lobbies to halt illegal
immigration and reduce legal immigration. She is most concerned that college
graduates who are immigrants will take away jobs from U.S. citizens.

"You have people doing work under the table for a long time, working in the
shadows who can now work for high-tech companies," Barnes said. "We're all
competing for the same jobs."

The 1986 amnesty improved the lives of millions of immigrant families but left
unsolved problems. Legal limits and backlogs in the 1990s propelled illegal
border-crossings.

Sierra doesn't remember any of that. She wasn't born yet. When she was 9 in the
late 1990s, at the height of illegal immigration, her family sent her from
Mexico to her parents here.

She was busy last week translating emergency information in Spanish to Richmond
residents affected by the Chevron refinery fire, but she said she plans to apply
"as soon as I can."

"I'll be able to have a sense of security," she said.

CHILDHOOD IMMIGRANTS

Beginning Wednesday, immigrants who as youths entered the United States
illegally may seek a renewable status of "deferred action," which removes the
threat of deportation and enables them to acquire work permits. The application
forms will be available online only atwww.uscis.gov beginning Wednesday.
Deferred action is available to people who:
Were younger than 31 as of June 15, 2012; Came to the United States before
reaching their 16th birthdays; Have continuously lived in the United States
since June 15, 2007, up to the present time; Were physically present in the
United States on June 15, 2012, and at the time of requesting deferred action
status; Entered without inspection before June 15, 2012, or legal immigration
status expired as of June 15, 2012; Are currently in school, have graduated or
obtained a certificate of completion from high school, have obtained a general
education development certificate, or are an honorably discharged veteran of the
Coast Guard or Armed Forces; and Have not been convicted of a felony,
significant misdemeanor, three or more other misdemeanors, and do not otherwise
threaten national security or public safety.

Individuals with questions can call the immigration service at 800-375-5283 or
go towww.uscis.gov for more detailed information.

Source: U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Holding signs saying "Thank You President Obama, " Ricky Campos, 23, of
Silver Spring, Md., left, Katye Hernandez, 22, both illegal immigrants
originally from El Salvador, who live in Silver Spring, Md., along with Rachelle
Robertello, 18, of Fairfax, Va., and others from the group Casa de Maryland,
rally outside the White House in Washington, Friday, June 15, 2012, in support
of President Barack Obama after the President announced that the U.S. government
will stop deporting and begin granting work permits to younger illegal
immigrants who came to the U.S. as children and have since led law-abiding
lives. (AP File Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Relief arrives for young illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 760 words


Amid warnings that it is not a permanent solution, the federal government
launched an immigration relief initiative Wednesday for more than 1.5 million
young illegal immigrants who could seek work permits and protection from
deportation.

Immigration offices and advocacy groups were bracing for a rush of interest, but
it could take weeks for applicants to learn whether they officially qualify.
Many are in no hurry to apply on the first day and will wait to send in their
forms.

"We've been pretty inundated," said Ellen Dumesnil, director of the nonprofit
International Institute of the Bay Area, which is helping immigrant families
with the applications. "We're doing group workshops, individual consultations."

"The challenge is going to be -- for all immigrant organizations -- our
capacity," she said.

The work permits are for immigrants 30 or younger who were brought to the United
States illegally before they turned 16, and only if they graduate high school or
served in the military, haven't committed any serious crimes and have lived in
the country continuously since 2007. They also must pay a $465 fee.

Those who qualify can get two-yearï¿ renewable work permits and won't be
deported but will not be granted legal permanent residency or citizenship.

In what appeared to be the nation's biggest event marking the new relief, about
11,000 people gathered at Chicago's Navy Pier on Wednesday morning, most of them
teenagers and young adults, according to the Chicago Tribune.

The Pew Hispanic Center estimates up to 1.7 million people could be eligible for
relief, about 950,000 of them immediately. The remainder are either too young to
apply or haven't yet met all the requirements, such as having a high school
diploma or its equivalent.

The young applicants are "some of the bravest young people in our nation,
sharing their stories of hardship and hope," said Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell,
at a San Jose news conference Wednesday morning where three immigrants who plan
to apply for the "deferred action" program spoke at the Catholic Charities of
Santa Clara County headquarters.

About 500 people attended its deferred-action informational meetings, said
Robert Yabes, Catholic Charities' immigration program director, and the agency
was bracing Wednesday for as many as 300 of them to fill out the applications.

But Zelica Rodriguez, the policy and organizing program director for Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network, warned that "even though this has been a
long time coming, this is not the Dream Act," but only a temporary reprieve. The
Dream Act was a failed congressional initiative to give conditional permanent
residency to young illegal immigrants.

"The only solution is comprehensive immigration reform," she said. "This is a
first step; we need to continue to organize."

Yabes and others warned that the forms require some legal expertise to complete,
and applicants should avoid notarios -- unlicensed immigration "consultants" --
who lack that knowledge or might try to scam applicants by charging for the free
forms or promising expedited processing.

Information about the relief and how to apply is available
atwww.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals .

For immigrant advocates, the policy is "the best news we've had in a long time,"
Dumesnil said. "On the other hand, it's so imperfect in that it doesn't really
provide legal status. It's that proverbial blessing and curse."

Many are warning those who are eligible to not apply hastily.

Prerna Lal, 27, meets all the criteria but is waiting to find out if she can
instead get something better: permanent legal residency sponsored by her U.S.
citizen grandmother. She is concerned about youths who are applying for the
program even if they have something in their background that could disqualify
them.

"It's very important for people to know that the information can be used against
them. This is not a benevolent process," said Lal, a former Antioch resident
from Fiji who is studying law at George Washington University. Her advice: Get a
lawyer first.

Staff writer Josh Richman contributed to this report.

State warns of scams


California Attorney General Kamla Harris said in a statement Wednesday that her
office has not fielded any complaints about scams but warned immigrants eligible
for the federal "deferred action" relief policy to find out if a lawyer they
consult is registered with the State Bar of California by checking online
atwww.calbar.ca.gov or by calling 1-800-843-9053. Immigration consultants must
also register with the state; to find out if they are, call 916-653-3984.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Local immigrants, who wanted use only their first names (L to R)
Nelson, Grecia and Claudia who plan to apply for the "deferred action" program,
stand together after speaking in a news conference at the Catholic Charities of
Santa Clara County headquarters in San Jose, Calif. on Aug. 15, 2012. The three
immigrants worn graduation gowns to symbolize their education and career
aspirations. Amid warnings that it is not a permanent solution, the federal
government launched an immigration relief initiative Wednesday for more than 1.5
million young illegal immigrants who could seek work permits and protection from
deportation. (Dai Sugano/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday

Young illegal immigrants will be eligible for California driver's licenses

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 748 words


California will issue driver's licenses to hundreds of thousands of young
illegal immigrants once the Obama administration grants them work permits, a
move that could reignite a divisive debate that has simmered for nearly 20
years.

The state's decision is the opposite from Arizona's, where Republican Gov. Jan
Brewer signed an executive order outlawing driver's licenses for anyone who
benefits from the new federal deportation relief.

The starkly different responses show that the benefits of the federal directive
could vary depending on where immigrants live.

The Obama administration left it to states to decide whether to issue driver's
licenses and offer in-state college tuition rates and other services to people
who came here illegally as children but now are eligible for work permits.

Arizona was the first to say no, and California -- home to more than 400,000
young immigrants expected to qualify -- was one of the first to say yes when
deportation relief became available this week.

Muzaffar Chishti of the Migration Policy Institute expects a flurry of activity
in state capitals this month as governors and lawmakers follow the lines drawn
by California and Arizona.

"Immigration is a federal issue," Chishti said. "How you treat immigrants within
your state is a state issue."

Licenses also are purely a state matter, another expert said.

"The Constitution says nothing about driver's licenses," said Jacob Vigdor, a
professor at Duke University's Sanford School of Public Policy. "Back in the
1780s it wasn't an issue. So it's completely at the discretion of states."

And, Vigdor said, the federal directive launched this week to help illegal
immigrant students or high school graduates who are 30 or younger is
accentuating the divide between some states' "anti-immigrant" climate and the
"permissive, much more pragmatic" California approach.

California's 1993 ban on driver's licenses for illegal immigrants stands, but
the DMV will treat as "temporary legal residents" those who qualify for
deportation relief, DMV spokesman Mike Marando said Wednesday.

"California law is not changing. ... However, those applicants approved by (the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security) will become temporary legal residents,"
Marando said.

That did not sit well with Southern California Assemblyman Tim Donnelly,
R-Hesperia.

"I think there's going to be a huge debate right here in California over that
very issue," said Donnelly, a vocal opponent of illegal immigration. "The vast
majority of Californians are adamantly opposed to giving driver's licenses to
illegals."

Sixty-two percent of Californians opposed granting licenses to undocumented
immigrants in 2005, the last time the Field Poll surveyed opinions on the topic.
Californians then were evenly divided over a "different kind" of license that
labeled them as nonresidents.

Now, young immigrants with a job permit and Social Security card can prove legal
residency to the DMV, Marando said.

Immigrant advocates celebrated California's move and denounced Arizona's.

Driving is essential for many California and Arizona workers, especially
farmworkers who travel far following crops, said Diana Tellefson Torres of the
United Farm Workers Foundation.

Having licenses will let them move around freely without fear, she said.

A few states allow illegal immigrants to drive and others have no policy, but
California is among the majority denying licenses to illegal residents.

Many such immigrants drive anyway, despite the risk of deportation, criminal
charges, car impoundments and expensive penalties.

California's 1993 license prohibition applied to people who could not prove they
were "a citizen or legal resident of the United States under federal law."
Signed by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, the driving ban was a precursor to 1994's
voter-approved Proposition 187, which excluded illegal immigrants from public
schools and other services.

Judges overturned most of Proposition 187, but the driver ban has lasted nearly
two decades despite some Democratic lawmakers' perennial attempts to overturn
it.

Democratic Gov. Gray Davis in 2003 repealed the ban before voters recalled him.
Weeks later, new Republican Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the Legislature
restored it.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, has fought for 15 years to repeal the
1993 law and wants all undocumented immigrants to be able to drive legally.

"Every motorist in California should be licensed, tested and insured," he said.
"That was our policy for 60 years."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Itzel Guillen, left, sorts out some of the documents she needs to apply
for a work permit along with Lucero Maganda, right, at her home Wednesday, Aug.
15, 2012, in San Diego. Guillen and Maganda are among those hoping for the right
to work legally in America without being deported. The Obama Administration s
Dream Act," or the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, could expand the
rights of more than 1 million young illegal immigrants. (AP Photo/Gregory Bull)
Itzel Guillen, left, sorts out some of the documents she needs to apply for a
work permit along with Lucero Maganda, right, at her home Wednesday, Aug. 15,
2012, in San Diego. Guillen and Maganda are among those hoping for the right to
work legally in America without being deported. The Obama Administration s Dream
Act," or the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, could expand the rights of
more than 1 million young illegal immigrants. (AP Photo/Gregory Bull)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: One subject Ryan could help milk

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 709 words


SAN DIEGO -- Got illegal immigrants? The nation's dairy industry does, and it
wouldn't last long without them.

Now that Wisconsin's Paul Ryan has been picked by Mitt Romney for the Republican
ticket, let's pour ourselves a glass of milk and have a discussion that we've
been none too eager to have.

We need to talk about immigration not as an emotional issue but as an economic
one. Like other dairy states -- i.e., California, New York, Vermont -- Wisconsin
depends heavily on the dairy industry. And the industry depends heavily on
illegal immigrant labor. It's that simple.

The same goes for other outdoor industries such as farming, ranching and
landscaping. If it's a job where you work with your hands and where you work
outside, you're going to find a lot of foreign workers doing it.

You can bet that Ryan understands this reality, and that it's one reason he has
long supported efforts in Congress to provide a more stable workforce for these
kinds of industries. This includes the AgJobs bill, which was put together by a
bipartisan group of lawmakers and would have legalized about 500,000 farm
workers. Ryan was a co-sponsor of every version of that legislation in four
consecutive Congresses.

"I believe there was a certain pragmatism at work," Craig J. Regelbrugge,
co-chair of the Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform, told me. "There
was a serious constituent issue and economic issue in his district. The dairy
industry in his district produces over $100 million annually in milk and dairy
products. Its `the district's~ nurseries and greenhouses grow almost $45 million
in trees, shrubs, and plants."

Regelbrugge, who is also vice president of government relations for the American
Nursery & Landscape Association, all but admits that these industries would
falter without undocumented workers.

"Most of the labor force sustaining these industries wasn't born in America, and
has papers that look better than they really are," he said. "They are pretty
much the only ones applying for a job that gives them the privilege to have
their arm well past the elbow inside Elsie the Cow at 3 a.m. when she goes into
labor."

Spot on.

Americans talk a great deal about immigration, but we usually talk about it in
the wrong way. We're more likely to argue over the impact of immigrants on the
culture -- i.e., complain about people speaking Spanish at the supermarket or
the post office -- while not admitting the positive impact of immigrants on the
economy.

It's part of the conundrum that Republicans face this week in Tampa at their
convention. They can't win without Hispanics. Yet they can't get Hispanics to
vote for them until they learn how to talk about immigration in a way that isn't
offensive. And they can't do that until they stop harping on how immigrants
impact the culture and start talking about how immigrants -- even the illegal
kind -- impact the economy.

This is where Ryan comes in. He could help unlock this debate, and he could help
his party stay afloat. And in the process, he could help the rest of us come to
grips with basic realities that we have been reluctant to confront.

A few years ago, I was guest hosting a radio show in San Diego when I got a call
from a city slicker who must have thought that milk comes from cartons in the
supermarket. As one who grew up in the farm country of Central California, I
know that some of our hardest and dirtiest jobs would not get done in a world
with no illegal immigrants.

For instance, I said on the radio, milking cows. That morning, The Wall Street
Journal had run an article detailing how dependent the modern dairy industry had
become on foreign workers, most of them undocumented. The caller wanted to
challenge that argument. After all, he pointed out, these days, most dairies use
milking machines.

I responded, "That's true. But, who connects the machine to the cow?"

At that point, my producer sarcastically chimed in with her own answer: "The cow
does."

There you go. As far as some are concerned, there's the answer to our
immigration problem: The self-milking cow.

Meanwhile, back in the real world, we need people like Ryan to step up and help
shape an immigration debate for real people dealing with real labor shortages.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

Obama administration approves first 29 work permits for young illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 873 words


While some remain wary about coming forward, 82,000 young illegal immigrants
sought work permits from the Obama administration in the past month, and a small
group of 29 people learned their applications were approved in recent days.

Soon, Mayra Gomez could join them. She and her husband, a private and mechanic
in the U.S. Army Reserve, received a letter at their East Palo Alto home on
Monday from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services telling Gomez to come to
the agency's San Francisco office to get her fingerprints taken.

Once a sign of a looming deportation, this fingerprint check was a message to
Gomez she had one final step before she can get a work permit.

"I'm thinking about it all the time," said the 23-year-old UC Berkeley graduate,
whose family brought her across the border from Mexico when she was a child.

Gomez declined a well-paying job offer this summer because she has no legal
right to work, but that could change soon. More than just a job, however, Gomez
said she is looking forward to living without the constant fear she could be
torn apart from her U.S. citizen husband and their 1-year-old son.

Demographers estimate more than 1.2 million young illegal immigrants, and about
350,000 in California, could immediately qualify for the Obama administration's
two-year work permits and protection from deportation, but nationwide only
82,361 had applied in the first month since the Obama administration began
accepting applications on Aug. 15.

Officials said it will take an average of four to six months before applicants
get an answer. For Gomez and some others in the Bay Area, however, the notice is
coming sooner. She applied on Aug. 28 and has her fingerprint appointment in two
weeks.

The federal government said Friday it has now scheduled 63,717 such "biometric"
appointments at immigration offices around the country, and 1,660 cases have
gone through the background check and imminently await a decision. Twenty-nine
cases have already been approved.

"By approving some cases quickly, it alleviates some of the fears of other
applicants," said Mark Silverman of the San Francisco-based Immigrant Legal
Resource Center.

An immigration lawyer in the Bay Area since 1983, Silverman said he was
pleasantly surprised that so many people have already applied but knows more
will come out of the shadows once they see signs that the promised relief
actually works.

"The same thing happened during the amnesty program of '87 and '88," Silverman
said. "After people saw their friends and neighbors were getting their
applications approved, that encouraged more people to apply."

The immigration agency recently emailed San Francisco resident Sarah Souza
informing her it received her application and was routing it to a Southern
California processing center. Never before was Souza so delighted to get a form
letter.

"I was a little emotional," she said. "I feel like I'm part of this country. I
just need the opportunity to show that I can do great things for this country,
that I'm not a criminal."

Souza and her sister first entered the United States to visit Disneyland on a
youth trip from Brazil in the summer of 2001. She was 15, her sister 12, and
their tourist visas expired in three months, but they stayed to join their
mother, a nanny who had been living in San Francisco for two years.

Those eligible for relief must have come to the United States before they were
16, not be older than 30, lived here continuously since 2007, have a record free
of serious crimes, graduated high school or are in school or the military. They
must also pay a $465 fee to apply. The federal relief defers deportations but
doesn't offer the benefits of legal immigration or citizenship, only a temporary
work permit that can be renewed after two years.

Many who are eligible have been cautious about applying, some fearing that
coming forward could leave them exposed if Republican Mitt Romney wins the
election and reverses the Obama administration directive next year.

Romney has criticized the Obama directive as politically-motivated and said he
would replace it with a long-term solution but hasn't said what that solution
would be. The Republican National Convention made little mention last month of
the directive, which is widely popular among Latino voters, but House Judiciary
Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, said on Thursday that the fast-moving relief
program was putting the country in danger.

"Such a quick turnaround for these amnesty applications raises serious concerns
about fraud and a lack of thorough vetting," Smith said in a statement.

In contrast, the Democratic National Convention embraced the young immigrants,
dubbed "dreamers" after the long-sought Dream Act that would have granted them
legal residency but failed to pass through Congress in 2010.

At crowded informational meetings around the Bay Area, Silverman has encouraged
young immigrants with the cleanest records to apply soon because he knows that
the Obama administration has political reasons to show that its relief is
working before the November election and also knows that Romney, if he wins,
could stop the program but would be less likely to turn back the clock against
those who already applied.

Contact Matt O'Brien at 510-293-2465.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayra Gomez, of East Palo Alto, poses for a photograph in East Palo
Alto, Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2012. Gomez is one of a number of young
California immigrants who has applied for the Obama administration work permits
and protection from deportation. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Mayra Gomez, of East Palo Alto, right, poses for a photograph with her husband
U.S. Army Reserve Private Manuel Vargas and 1-year-old son Enrique Vargas-Gomez
in East Palo Alto, Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2012. Gomez is one of a
number of young California immigrants who has applied for the Obama
administration work permits and protection from deportation. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Mayra Gomez, of East Palo Alto, poses for a photograph in East Palo Alto,
Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2012. Gomez is one of a number of young
California immigrants who has applied for the Obama administration work permits
and protection from deportation. (Anda Chu/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration profile: CLOUD's Yaquelin Valencia fights to make a difference for
the undocumented

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 340 words


Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers, or CLOUD, is a recently
formed organization in Contra Costa County that is joining with Bay Area allies
to empower and educate the community about the struggles of illegal immigrants
while collectively striving to achieve equity.

To help the community understand their personal struggles, CLOUD leaders share
their stories.

Yaquelin Valencia

Age: 20

Attends Contra Costa College, lives in Richmond

"My mom brought me here when I was 2 years old. She left my two other sisters in
Mexico.

When I was 4 years old, she left me here with my aunt and went back to get my
sisters. I cried for my mom. She was gone for six months.

When my sisters came, they were jealous of me because I had some things they
didn't have. My sisters have that grudge because my mom left them there and
brought me first.

I think growing up, I didn't really have a struggle being undocumented, because
that never crossed my mind that I wasn't going to be able to get a job.

My mom was doing construction -- hard labor -- for about 15 years. My dad stayed
in Mexico. I never had contact with him until I was probably 18. He wasn't
married to my mom.

Until I got in high school -- I think it was probably my junior year -- I didn't
know I wasn't going to get financial aid. I went to Kennedy High School in
Richmond.

My mom said: 'Get good grades.' She didn't know.

My senior year, I was vice president, school board rep, I was attending City
Council meetings. I never focused on my immigration status.

My mom married an American and applied for her residency, but the lawyers never
asked about her children. Other lawyers say they should have filed for us, as
well.

I went to the first CLOUD event and joined. I didn't know anything about
deferred action. They did an amazing job and I like how they're coordinating.

That's why I'm part of CLOUD. I want to make a difference."

Theresa Harrington covers education. Contact her at 925-945-4764. Follow her
atTwitter.com/tunedtotheresa . Read her education blog
atIBAbuzz.com/onassignment .

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers (C.L.O.U.D.) members
Yaquelin Valencia, 20, is photographed in Richmond, Calif. on Friday, Sept. 7,
2012. C.L.O.U.D. started about two months ago and has about 25 core leaders.
About 98 percent of the leaders are undocumented. (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration profile: Dina Barriere of CLOUD helps bring undocumented students
out of shadows

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 623 words


Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers, or CLOUD, is a recently
formed organization in Contra Costa County that is joining with Bay Area allies
to empower and educate the community about the struggles of illegal immigrants
while collectively striving to achieve equity.

To help the community understand their personal struggles, CLOUD leaders share
their stories.

Dina Barriere

Age: 22

Attends City College of San Francisco; lives in Richmond

"I came here initially when I was 3, with Mom and Grandpa from San Salvador in
El Salvador.

We lived in Daly City for a while. I was in kindergarten. I didn't speak any
English. There was no bilingual class, so I had to forcibly learn English. My
mom had some background in English, so every night she would read me books in
broken English and I realized my mom's broken English sounded like the English
in class.

I started getting good grades. Reading and writing became so intense --
something I loved to do. My mom bought me my first diary when I was 7.

When I was 9, my mom became really impatient and didn't want to live here. She
got into a relationship with a man from Mexico and they got together and had my
little brother.

We went to El Salvador for one year, then came back when I was 10. I came back
on a plane with a visa, but my mom didn't tell me she had lied to get me in and
she got deported.

That was probably the most heartbreaking thing for me, when I got the call from
Auntie saying she was deported. She was seven months' pregnant with my sister
and she was crossing all the borders. That was when I spent Christmas just with
my brother and stepdad. My mom was gone three months, from October to Dec. 26.

Growing up, my immigration status wasn't a barrier at all. I got into Middle
College High School, which is a program in the West Contra Costa district where
you get a high school diploma and AA. I was really excited. First semester, I
got all A's and one B.

Then everyone was applying for a driver's license and I found out I couldn't and
that's when my whole world came crashing down and I figured I wasn't going to
amount to anything.

So, my grades went down and I went back to Richmond High. I graduated in '09 and
I ended up not going to college, until my mom found out you could go to City
College of San Francisco and they didn't ask for your Social Security number.

I went to a counselor named Leti. But I didn't meet this amazing leader Carlos
until 2011 when Leti again came into my life randomly in the parking lot and
told me there was a center for undocumented students.

My brother and sister were born here. They're set. They're chill.

My little sister, who's 11, she sees how much I have struggled -- and my mom and
my dad. She was telling Carlos she was going to become the first Chicana
president or if not, become a zoologist.

Carlos has gotten me to where I am now in terms of leadership-building skills
because he saw that I had potential. Now he's created such a big movement in
Richmond.

That first event was crazy. There were over 300 in the church. We expected a max
of 300 and it went over. We had screenings going on around tables. We had a
lawyer answering questions.

In CLOUD, you see the enthusiasm. There's like this command, when Carlos walks
into the room. And Jose Juan has a strong voice. Everyone has a talent and
everyone contributes to the group every way they can.

You know how they say: 'Rome wasn't built in a day?'

And they always used to say the undocumented students were in the shadows. But I
think now we're coming out of the shadows."

Theresa Harrington covers education. Reach her at 925-945-4764 or
tharrington@bayareanewsgroup. Follow her attwitter.com/tunedtotheresa . Read her
education blog athttp://www.ibabuzz.com/onassignment .

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers (C.L.O.U.D.) member
Dina Barriere, 22, is photographed in Richmond, Calif. on Friday, Sept. 7, 2012.
C.L.O.U.D. started about two months ago and has about 25 core leaders. About 98
percent of the leaders are undocumented. (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration profile: Jose Juan Reyes fights for rights of the undocumented

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 1059 words


Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers, or CLOUD, is a recently
formed organization in Contra Costa County that is joining with Bay Area allies
to empower and educate the community about the struggles of illegal immigrants
while collectively striving to achieve equity.

To help the community understand their personal struggles, CLOUD leaders share
their stories.

Jose Juan Reyes

Age: 21

Attends College of Marin; lives in Richmond

"I came here when I was around 7 or 8 years old from Toluca, Mexico. My father
had previously come two years before and we stayed back home -- with my mom and
my sister. I was going to school and all of a sudden my mom said, 'We've got to
go.' I didn't even get to say goodbye to anyone.

We took a plane to Tijuana, along with my uncle. He was going with us. I was
confused about what was going on. We stayed at a home of a person who was going
to cross us over the border.

I hadn't seen my father for like two years. When he left, I was like 5 years
old. It was like a blurry memory.

My sister and I crossed in a car with two men and (the border patrol) didn't ask
for documents. We got to San Diego and we stayed at a home where my father's
boss used to live. The following day, we took a train to Orange County and I got
picked up by my dad and another guy. When my dad showed up, I was like, 'Who is
that guy?' He had a mustache. He was wearing stunners (sunglasses).

My mom had to stay back. She got detained by immigration. She got detained like
three times and one day she got tired and she decided to go herself without any
documentation and they let her through.

It was a moment where I realized I was starting a new era in my life. Growing up
in Orange County, in Costa Mesa, I was going to really good schools. At first,
my English was really bad, but by third grade I was already speaking English and
reading. By fourth grade I was already at the reading level of a sixth-grader.
When I got to school, they were learning how to add and subtract. In Mexico, I
was already multiplying and dividing.

After many years, I realized there was something wrong. There was something
missing in my life. I was not equal. I thought: 'Why do my parents have to use
another name to work and to put food on the table?' But I didn't mind, because
that was the only way they could do it.

We moved to Richmond when I was in seventh grade. I went to Richmond High and
got A's and B's. I got a letter that said: 'You're a really good student we want
you to go abroad.' They were going to pay for everything. But, my parents said:
'Are you crazy? You could never get back.'

By that time, I understood that my parents had been struggling all their lives.
I heard stories like: 'I had to drop out. I was in college, but I needed to work
to sustain myself.' That's when I realized I needed to get to college.

By 10th grade I got the opportunity to do a mural about relations between
African-Americans and Latinos.

Then, I got appointed to another program where a teacher taught us to create an
impact with a poster and words or poems. I was still getting really good grades,
but Richmond High was still a struggle because I met the wrong people. I was
skipping class. I got jumped a couple of times by several individuals, so I
decided to switch schools to San Rafael High. So, that's where I graduated from.
I had to drive and I needed a parking permit, but there was no way to get a
parking permit because I had no license.

I went to a business school in Belmont, by Redwood City. My parents were
struggling. The recession was hitting. My dad was unemployed. My mother wasn't
working as much. So that's when I decided to back off.

I went to a community center in Richmond. I was still learning, but I catch onto
things fast. After time, people started seeing me as an asset to the community.
I started leading more. I remember working for the Healthy Richmond initiative,
going door to door, and I got to see the needs of the community and every person
had a different need and different struggles.

Eventually, some folks from Building Blocks for Kids hired me and we did so many
great things. I learned so much from them.

And then deferred action came out. I was like: 'Yo, this hits me. This is where
I have to be.'

I met Carlos and helped form CLOUD.

I think that leading is about looking at the bigger spectrum of things. It's
been a struggle for me, not being able to work legally. I'm a contractor. I've
never used a fake Social Security number. I can't legally drive yet.

I feel a lot of anger just for that simple reason: I can't legally drive, own a
house, have a credit score that is nice and presentable so I could apply for a
loan to go to school to do all these big things in life. I'm really proud of
where I'm from. But this is my home. The U.S. is my home. You can't deny that.
But everybody closes the doors on you.

So, we're emphasizing: 'We're not illegal, we're undocumented.' That's something
I strongly believe.

Richmond has this negative connotation that people here are bad, but that's not
true and I just like being part of this movement because I know I can make a
difference. I don't want to just sit home and not do anything. I realize that
life is much greater than that.

We're a few youngsters doing this work, but I have never, ever seen the
willingness the dreamers -- the undocumented students -- are having. This is
something that has changed my perspective because they are so talented. That's
what's making CLOUD. Without them, CLOUD wouldn't be anything. Some of these
folks don't have any experience organizing. But, they see you and it's like
something changes and it's like: 'Dude, where can I sign up?' We have high
school students and people older than us looking up to us, so it's something
that's awesome.

We put up this quote by Cesar Chavez: 'Once social change begins, it cannot be
reversed. You can't uneducate somebody who has learned to read. You cannot
humiliate a person who feels pride. You cannot oppress a people who are not
afraid. We have seen the future and the future is ours.'

Once we know that things are possible, we're going to fight even stronger to
make it happen. I'm not afraid to go out and say: 'Yes, we can do this.'"

Theresa Harrington covers education. Contact her at 925-945-4764. Follow her
atTwitter.com/tunedtotheresa . Read her education blog
atIBAbuzz.com/onassignment .

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers (C.L.O.U.D.) member
Jose Juan Reyes, 21, is photographed in Richmond, Calif. on Friday, Sept. 7,
2012. C.L.O.U.D. started about two months ago and has about 25 core leaders.
About 98 percent of the leaders are undocumented. (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration profile: Carlos Martinez fights to clear path to college for the
undocumented

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 835 words


Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers, or CLOUD, is a recently
formed organization in Contra Costa County that is joining with Bay Area allies
to empower and educate the community about the struggles of illegal immigrants
while collectively striving to achieve equity.

To help the community understand their personal struggles, CLOUD leaders share
their stories.

Carlos Martinez

Age: 23

Attends City College of San Francisco

"I grew up in Salinas. I was born in Hidalgo, Mexico, and was raised by a single
mom. I came to the U.S. when I was 11 years old.

My mother called a 'coyote,' which is kind of like a smuggler, and I crossed the
border in Arizona with my little sister, who was about 9 or 10. There was a
group of about 20 and we walked for four days and three nights -- even sleeping
there.

I enrolled in sixth grade, seventh grade, eighth grade, and when I was a senior
it was time for me to apply for college. My friends were applying to UCs. I went
to talk to my counselor and I said, 'I'm undocumented, but I want to go to
college, and is there any way I can go to college?'

And I still remember her looking at me and saying: 'I'm sorry, I don't know if
you can go to college.'

I was the first in my family to graduate from high school so that was a big
thing for my mom. But I didn't know what was my future.

I worked cutting lettuce with my mom in the fields for six or seven months.

I remember one day when we were working together, she basically said, 'I didn't
bring you to this country to be cutting lettuce with me.'

That was shock, because I had the skills. I'm smart. I knew this language. But I
was there working in the fields, not being productive and not using the skills
that I have.

So my friend told me about AB540. I enrolled in Hartnell Community College in
Salinas. I was taking general ed classes and working at KFC. Salinas -- it's a
farming area -- there's a lot of Latinos and Mexicans, but there wasn't a group
to help undocumented students. So my friend and I decided to created a group Mas
Fe, or 'more faith.' My friend got a full-ride scholarship to San Francisco
State University and he convinced me to move to City College of San Francisco,
so that's how I moved to the Bay Area.

I already had the mentality that I was going to join a group serving
undocumented students or start my own. I had that determination. So I talked to
a counselor, Leti Silva, who was like my angel when I got there, at City
College.

(With other students) we created the first undocumented group/club: SAFE,
Students Advocating For Equity.

Then, we created the first resource center for undocumented students: VIDA,
Voices of Immigrants Demonstrating Achievements. So, that's like my baby.

It was through my work in City College that I got the scholarship that placed me
with CCISCO (Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Organization).

I got a Dream Summer Scholarship, through the Dream Research Center and UCLA
Labor Center. You have to apply and they give you an opportunity to do community
work for civic engagement with a nonprofit close to your community.

On June 15, President Obama made the deferred action announcement and the
following Monday, I was meeting with CCISCO because I was starting my
internship. This was a hot topic, a new topic. They said, 'We don't have a group
in Richmond, so your job is to start a group.'

That's how I met Jose Juan.

We've been doing events through Catholic churches -- screenings to see if they
qualify for deferred action and answering questions. We have lawyers.

I've been organizing for five years with the undocumented movement. At our
event, I saw people with this passion to organize and educate the community.
What kind of got to me was, we met for less than a month and we were able to
pull off this event and 300 people showed up and it was all youths who took
ownership and decided: 'We're going to educate the community.' That's not going
to go away for me. I was surprised. I was shocked. It was so beautiful.

Every meeting that we have and every event that we have, we try -- Jose Juan and
myself -- we try to tell the youths: 'We're not just providing information. We
don't just want to inform the community, we want to help the community organize
and see the bigger picture.' The deferred action is only two years.

It was a big victory for all the undocumented people who live in the country but
this is not the end. We we want to push for a federal Dream Act and
comprehensive immigration reform.

What I see in our CLOUD leaders is they understand that this is going to benefit
us, but it's not going to benefit our parents. We have to benefit the community.

I can't vote, but I can influence citizens that can vote for us and with that we
can have a strong voice.

I remember when my counselor said, 'I don't know if you can go to college.' I
don't want other people to have that memory."

Theresa Harrington covers education. Contact her at 925-945-4764. Follow her
atTwitter.com/tunedtotheresa . Read her education blogatIBAbuzz.com/onassignment
.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers (C.L.O.U.D.) member
Carlos Martinez, 23, is photographed in Richmond, Calif. on Friday, Sept. 7,
2012. C.L.O.U.D. started about two months ago and has about 25 core leaders.
About 98 percent of the leaders are undocumented. (Jose Carlos Fajardo/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 29, 2012 Saturday

California immigration bills going down to the wire

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 648 words


High-profile immigrant advocates are unleashing a final surge of pressure on
Gov. Jerry Brown, who has until Sunday to act on two bills that would make life
easier for California's undocumented immigrants.

One of them, AB 2189, would allow the state to grant driver's licenses to
thousands of young Californians getting temporary work permits through a new
Obama administration deportation relief policy.

The federal relief is for illegal immigrants who are no older than 30 and were
brought to the country before they turned 16 and meet other requirements, such
as a high school diploma and clean record.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, is confident Brown will sign the bill
the lawmaker sponsored, his spokesman Conrado Terrazas said on Friday.

Less sure of a victory this weekend are proponents of AB 1081, the Trust Act,
which would limit county and city jails from holding illegal immigrants for
federal deportation proceedings unless they have a record of serious or violent
felonies.

The driver license issue has been settled in some states, Texas, Virginia and
Oregon among them, that have said they will allow driver's licenses for
immigrants obtaining what the Obama administration calls "deferred action for
childhood arrivals."

Arizona and Nebraska have pledged to deny driver's licenses to anyone who
benefits from the federal relief.

Nationwide, more than 100,000 young immigrants have applied for the deferred
deportations since the Department of Homeland Security began accepting
applications on August 15, but only a few dozen have been approved. Federal
officials have left it up to state governments to decide if they will grant
licenses and other benefits to those getting the work authorization.

California's DMV originally said it would grant the licenses, since it already
accepts federal work permits as a valid form of documentation, but later said
the state would need to clarify its rules.

California voters oppose giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants on a 56
percent to 40 percent margin, but it is an important issue to Latino voters, 60
percent of whom support the licenses, according to a Field Poll released Friday.
The poll did not specifically ask about Cedillo's bill, which affects a more
limited population of youths who came to the country as children.

The same poll found 67 percent of California voters support a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants if they meet certain requirements.

The Trust Act has a strong following. Its sponsor, Assemblyman Tom Ammiano,
D-San Francisco, is rallying with Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and
hundreds of other activists, and the cause has won endorsements from celebrity
advocates in the past week, from actor Martin Sheen to Los Angeles Catholic
Cardinal Roger Mahoney.

The bill would lessen the high number of deportations that have come through the
Secure Communities network, which sends the fingerprints of everyone arrested in
the state to federal agents, who then request local law enforcement to detain
suspected illegal immigrants after their local custody is completed. Brown, as
attorney general, signed the state-federal partnership in 2009 and defended the
program throughout his 2010 campaign for governor.

The Obama administration considers Secure Communities a centerpiece of its
enforcement priorities to deport criminals from the country, but critics say the
program deports far too many non-criminals and people picked up for traffic
violations and other low-level offenses.

Signing the bill "would mark a turning point for California and the country away
from the discrimination that's rampant in Arizona and toward the inclusion we
value in California," said spokesman B. Loewe of the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network.

Most of the state's county sheriffs oppose the bill, saying it would interfere
with their work and force them to defy federal enforcement prerogatives.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Maria Rodriguez, far left, speaks out during a news conference, before
joining over a dozen documented and undocumented immigrants before boarding a
bus en route to Los Angeles where they will be participating in a rally for
immigrant rights, Wednesday, Sept. 26, 2012, in Phoenix. The immigrants boarded
a bus, with the words painted in Spanish and English "No Papers No Fear, Journey
For Justice" departed from in front of the Capitol Executive Tower, on their way
to a rally on Saturday, calling on California Gov. Jerry Brown to sign two
pieces of legislation, the Trust Act, and the California Domestic Workers' Bill
of Rights.(AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Trust cut in California by Gov. Brown's veto pen

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 631 words


SAN DIEGO -- California Gov. Jerry Brown is celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month
with a Mexican hat dance.

The Democrat signed one bill that will probably wind up helping a small number
of people and issued a veto that will likely hurt many more.

The bill that Brown signed gives driver's licenses to young illegal immigrants,
i.e., DREAMers, who are given deferred action by the Obama administration. It
impacts a sliver of the estimated 3 million illegal immigrants in California.
Nationwide, only about 120,000 DREAMers stepped forward to apply for Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals. According to an immigration lawyer who handled
one of the cases, fewer than 100 people in the country have been granted the
two-year reprieve from deportation.

Meanwhile, the bill that Brown vetoed -- the TRUST Act -- impacted thousands. It
would've barred local law enforcement from cooperating with federal immigration
agents in detaining suspects for deportation unless they were charged with
serious or violent felonies.

ICE's favorite chew toy is the program called Secure Communities, or SCOMM. The
initiative -- which requires local law enforcement to submit to federal
authorities the fingerprints of anyone they arrest who might be in the country
illegally -- began in late 2008 but was expanded nationwide by the Obama
administration. It is snake oil. Localities and states were conned into signing
on with assurances that their participation was voluntary and that the program
would focus on serious and violent criminals. Both were untrue.

Some of SCOMM's harshest critics are President Barack Obama's fellow Democrats
-- Rep. Zoe Lofgren of California, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Massachusetts
Gov. Deval Patrick, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, as well as California
Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, who wrote the TRUST Act to restore sanity to law
enforcement, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, who voiced support for the
bill.

The media spun the legislation as an "anti-Arizona" bill intended to keep the
Golden State from going over to the dark side. But the TRUST Act was really
anti-SCOMM.

Brown wouldn't go along. It's not like he was a critic of SCOMM to begin with;
in 2009, while state attorney general, Brown supported the program and signed
the agreements with the federal government that wound up bringing so much
turmoil into the lives of undocumented immigrants whose labor keeps the state
going.

The governor's statement on the veto was only 226 words. Yet remarkably, in that
small space, he managed to insult the intelligence of Californians three
different times.

First, Brown -- failing to mention his past SCOMM support -- issued a
hypocritical statement in which he said "federal agents shouldn't try to coerce
local law enforcement officers into detaining people who've been picked up for
minor offenses and pose no reasonable threat to their community."

Next, Brown engaged in fear-mongering. He claimed he was vetoing the act because
it overlooked individuals convicted of "child abuse, drug trafficking, selling
weapons, using children to sell drugs, or gangs." I'm sure it was a coincidence
that the governor sought to make a point about a pool of illegal immigrants that
is largely Latino by referencing stereotypes.

Finally, Brown contended the bill could be "fixed" and pledged that he would
"work with the Legislature to see that the bill is corrected forthwith"; in this
case, why didn't the governor "work with the Legislature" to tweak the bill when
it was making its way through the process? Answer: This way, Brown can kick the
ball downfield, perhaps beyond his 2014 re-election effort.

In 2010, California Latinos supported Brown. They put their trust in him. And,
with one veto of a common sense bill, he betrayed it.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

UC San Francisco performs kidney transplant for illegal immigrant after
thousands support his cause

BYLINE: Julia Prodis Sulek jsulek@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; San Jose - Valley; Alameda County;
Special Reports; Health; News; Local

LENGTH: 833 words


OAKLAND -- Seven years of waiting are over for Jesus Navarro, an illegal
immigrant who finally received a new kidney after his story motivated one man
plus thousands of others to fight on his behalf for a transplant.

Navarro, 36, was recuperating at his small Oakland apartment Thursday with his
wife and daughter after the successful transplant last week at UC San Francisco
Medical Center. The hospital became embroiled in controversy nine months ago
after Navarro came to believe -- despite having private health insurance,
despite his wife's pledge to donate her own kidney -- that his immigration
status doomed his chances of a transplant.

"I'm hoping to be feeling well enough to do all the things I wanted to do but
couldn't," Navarro said in Spanish Thursday, after receiving a kidney from an
organ donor. More than anything, it means finally being an active, engaged
husband to his wife, Angelica, and a doting father to their 3-year-old daughter,
Karen.

Until he lost his job in January, Navarro would spend 12 hours every afternoon
and night tethered to a dialysis machine then wake before dawn to leave for his
job as a welder at Pacific Steel in Berkeley.

"He never had time for us," said Angelica Navarro of her husband of eight years,
"just for the machine."

Navarro's story went viral in January after this newspaper wrote about his
plight, spurring Donald Kagan -- a 47-year-old San Ramon man who received a new
kidney from a Nicaraguan immigrant -- to take up his cause.

"Just because you're an immigrant doesn't mean you don't have a right to a
lifesaving transplant,'' Kagan said.

More than 100,000 people across the country signed online petitions posted
byChange.org , a social action group, to try to help. But others, irked that
Navarro might take an organ away from a needy American citizen, suggested he go
back to his home country of Mexico for the surgery.

More than 93,000 patients across the country are on the list for a kidney
transplant, with more than 5,200 patients on UCSF's list. Because of a shortage
of donor organs, only 350 people will receive a transplant this year at UCSF,
one of the largest kidney transplant programs in the country.

Navarro had been waiting for nearly seven years before he got the phone call at
10:30 p.m. on Sept. 25 to rush to UCSF.

As he was wheeled into the operating room in the early hours of Sept. 27, his
wife held his hand.

"I was telling him, 'Don't worry. Everything is going to be OK,' " she said.
"When he left, I started to cry because I was worried."

The transplant almost didn't happen. In January, Navarro's story became public
after word surfaced that he had been denied a kidney because he was an illegal
immigrant. UCSF officials insisted it was a "misunderstanding." Instead, they
said, Navarro was told he was being placed on "inactive" status on the recipient
list because of concerns that he would not have reliable post-transplant care.
But those concerns stemmed from Navarro's immigration status; after he lost his
job, Navarro faced having to rely on government assistance for a critical part
of his aftercare. "We wanted to make it clear we did not deny Mr. Navarro," said
hospital spokeswoman Karin Rush-Monroe. "There was clearly a misunderstanding,
and we did re-evaluate the communications process because we don't want any
patient walking away thinking something different than we thought we conveyed."

The hospital has done transplant surgeries on illegal immigrants in the past,
she added.

After reading Navarro's story, Kagan -- who received a kidney transplant in 2010
-- began working to help.

"It touched my heart," Kagan said. He worked with Navarro to make sure his
health insurance continued after he lost his job, and he met with UCSF officials
to encourage them to make their instructions more clear. He also connected with
La Clinica de La Raza, an Oakland health clinic that volunteered to perform all
of Navarro's post-surgery care for free, which returned Navarro to "active"
status on the recipient list.

"He's like an angel to us," Angelica Navarro said of Kagan.

It's been a difficult road for the family, she said. At one point, her husband
was so discouraged, he unplugged the catheter and threw the dialysis machine on
the floor. Another time, he didn't want to go to his niece's quinceanera
celebrating her 15th birthday because "he was so sad he wasn't going to make it
to his daughter's" 15th birthday. And last Halloween, when Navarro couldn't take
Karen to trick or treat, both mother and daughter were in tears.

"I hate this machine," Navarro said to his wife. "I hate it."

All signs are good that Navarro will make a complete recovery. His wife is
looking forward to the simple things, like having dinner together as a family
downstairs.

"I was hoping for the last seven years to see him like this," she said. "To have
a normal life."

And later this month, that might include trick-or-treating.

Staff photographer Ray Chavez contributed to this report. Contact Julia Prodis
Sulek at 408-278-3409.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kidney recipient Jesus Navarro, left, wears a dust mask as he turns the
TV on with cartoons for his 3-year-old daughter Karen as his wife Angelica looks
on at their home in Oakland, Calif., on Thursday, Oct. 4, 2012. Navarro has been
unemployed since last January after working as a welder in a Berkeley foundry
for 15 years. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Kidney recipient Jesus Navarro, left, along with his wife Angelica leave Kaiser
Permanente hospital in Oakland, Calif., after Navarro got a blood drawn on
Thursday, Oct. 4, 2012. Navarro just had the kidney transplant on Wednesday,
September 26, after waiting for 8 years on a kidney transplant recipients list.
(Ray Chavez/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday

Charles Krauthammer: The way forward for Republicans

BYLINE: By Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 646 words


They lose and immediately the chorus begins. Republicans must change or die. A
rump party of white America, it must adapt to evolving demographics or forever
be the minority.

The only part of this that is even partially true regards Hispanics. They should
be a natural Republican constituency: striving immigrant community, religious,
Catholic, family-oriented and socially conservative.

The principal reason they go Democratic is the issue of illegal immigrants. In
securing the Republican nomination, Mitt Romney made the strategic error of
(unnecessarily) going to the right of Rick Perry. Romney could never
successfully tack back.

For the party in general, however, the problem is hardly structural. It requires
but a single policy change: Border fence plus amnesty. Yes, amnesty in return
for full border enforcement.

I've always been of the "enforcement first" school, with the subsequent promise
of legalization. I still think it's the better policy. But many Hispanics fear
that there will be nothing beyond enforcement. So, promise amnesty right up
front. Secure the border with guaranteed legalization to follow on the day the
four border-state governors affirm that illegal immigration has slowed to a
trickle.

Imagine Marco Rubio advancing such a policy on the road to 2016. It would
transform the landscape. He'd win the Hispanic vote. Yes, win it. A problem
fixable with a single policy initiative is not structural. It is solvable.

The other part of the current lament is that the Republican Party consistently
trails among blacks, young people and (unmarried) women. (Republicans are plus-7
among married women.) But this is not for reasons of culture, identity or even
affinity. It is because these constituencies tend to be more politically liberal
-- and Republicans are the conservative party.

The country doesn't need two liberal parties. Yes, Republicans need to weed out
candidates who talk like morons about rape. But this doesn't mean the country
needs two pro-choice parties either. In fact, more women are pro-life than are
pro-choice. The problem here for Republicans is not policy but delicacy.

Additionally, warn the doomsayers, Republicans must change not just ethnically
but ideologically. Back to the center. Moderation above all!

More nonsense. Tuesday's exit polls showed that by an 8-point margin (51-43),
Americans believe that government does too much. And Republicans are the party
of smaller government. Moreover, onrushing economic exigencies will make the
argument for smaller government increasingly unassailable.

So, why give it up? Republicans lost the election not because they advanced a
bad argument but because they advanced a good argument not well enough. Romney
ran a solid campaign, but he is by nature a Northeastern moderate. He sincerely
adopted the new conservatism but still spoke it as a second language.

Behind him, the party has an extraordinarily strong bench. In Congress -- Paul
Ryan, Marco Rubio, Kelly Ayotte, (the incoming) Ted Cruz and others. And the
governors -- Bobby Jindal, Scott Walker, Nikki Haley, plus former Gov. Jeb Bush
and the soon retiring Mitch Daniels. (Chris Christie is currently in rehab.)

They were all either a little too young or just not personally prepared to run
in 2012. This generation of rising leaders is philosophically rooted and
politically fluent in the new constitutional conservatism.

Ignore the trimmers. There's no need for radical change. The other party thinks
it owns the demographic future -- counter that in one stroke by fixing the
Hispanic problem. Do not, however, abandon the party's philosophical anchor.

Romney is a good man who made the best argument he could, and nearly won. He
would have made a superb chief executive, but he (like the Clinton machine)
could not match Barack Obama in the darker arts of public persuasion.

Charles Krauthammer is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday

Statistics: California leads in deportation relief applications through Obama
program

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words


Five months after President Barack Obama announced an unprecedented policy
granting work permits and deportation reprieves to young illegal immigrants, the
government on Friday revealed its most detailed statistics about the program.

Here are new numbers showing how many have been approved and where they are from
and a timeline of what has happened since Obama's announcement.

Top states

Here are the number of requests made, ranked by state:

California: 81,858

Texas: 47,727

New York: 19,320

Florida: 15,318

Illinois: 13,904

North Carolina: 11,138

Arizona: 11,074

New Jersey: 10,474

Georgia: 10,206

Virginia: 5,886

Top countries

Here are the countries of origin of young immigrants seeking reprieve:

Mexico: 212,514

El Salvador: 13,769

Honduras: 8,577

Guatemala: 7,630

Peru: 5,052

South Korea: 4,880

Brazil: 4,345

Colombia: 3,856

Ecuador: 3,737

Philippines: 2,613

Timeline

June: President Barack Obama announced surprise deportation relief directive at
the White House Rose Garden on June 15, saying it's "the right thing to do."

July: Thousands of young illegal immigrants gathered school and other documents
proving longtime U.S. residency and crowded legal aid workshops hosted by
community groups.

August: The government began accepting online applications Aug. 15 and received
36,601 by the end of the month, a fraction of the nearly 1 million people
thought to be immediately eligible. Many said they remained wary about the
temporary reprieve and what would happen after the presidential election. Some
high school dropouts signed up for GED classes to meet the education
requirement.

September: Applications spiked as an average of 5,715 were submitted daily to
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which announced its first 29
approvals Sept. 14. By the end of the month, the government had approved 1,707
immigrants for reprieves and rejected an additional 3,676, and had signed up
about 105,000 people for fingerprint checks at offices around the country.

October: Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said for the first time
Oct. 1 that, if elected, he would suspend Obama's relief program but honor
permits already granted. Applications continued streaming in at a rate of 5,328
daily, and by the end of the month an additional 26,908 had been approved and
3,719 rejected.

November: Obama's re-election Nov. 6 confirmed the reprieve will not be
suspended, but daily average of applications dropped to 4,527. By mid-month, an
additional 24,658 were approved, nearly doubling the total to 53,273 immigrants
who now have protection. An additional 124,572 were still being reviewed. On
Nov. 14, Obama said he would renew legislative fight for the Dream Act, a
permanent measure offering the young immigrants a pathway to citizenship that
failed to pass Congress in 2010.

Estimated number of currently eligible immigrants: 950,000

Requests received: 308,934

Average received daily since August: 4,827

Requests rejected: 10,101

Still under review: 124,572

Requests approved: 53,273

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; Pew Hispanic Center


What it means

The Obama administration is granting deportation reprieves to young illegal
immigrants brought to the United States before they were 16. Law-abiding
immigrants who are 30 or younger, graduated from high school or served in the
military, and who have lived in the United States continuously for the past five
years, are eligible. California and some other states will grant driver's
licenses to the same group. The federal relief -- which costs the immigrants
$465 -- does not confer permanent residency or citizenship, but President Barack
Obama said Wednesday he wants Congress to pass a permanent solution, the
long-sought measure known as the Dream Act, along with broader immigration
reforms.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 6, 2012 Thursday

My Word: Undocumented immigrants should be person of the year

BYLINE: By Jenna Carlsson Oakland Tribune My Word

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 518 words


Time Magazine has released its candidates for Time's Person of the Year 2012.
One candidate is not a person, but the 11.2 million illegal immigrants living in
the United States.

Here is my story as to why illegal immigrants deserve to be Time's Person of the
Year, and much more.

We say America is the land of opportunity. We say it is a meritocracy, where all
people have an equal starting point, and where anyone, if they work hard enough,
can achieve their dreams. But if this is true, then why, after high school, are
some students able to go on and succeed, while others are trapped with few
options?

I was born into a white, upper-middle class family, in an affluent suburb in the
East Bay.

Growing up, I have had myriad opportunities available to me simply because of my
nationality, my class and the color of my skin. I have had access to really good
schools, the ability to attend a UC school and the feeling that I can truly can
accomplish my dreams.

Around the same time I was born, my friend Francisco was born into a
working-class family in Jalisco, Mexico. He came to the U.S. at 14 to create
opportunities for himself, graduating from a local high school and working
multiple jobs to provide for his family. But unlike me, Francisco was never able
to pursue his dream of becoming a doctor, hindered by his lack of legal
documents and the high cost of pursuing an education. He instead worked daily
double shifts at a local restaurant.

Francisco's story is not uncommon. Of the 400,000 children who live illegally in
California, and the 25,000 students who graduate from California high schools as
illegal immigrants each year, only one out of 20 goes on to attend college.
Because of the barriers they face, no matter how hard they've worked and what
schools they were admitted to, many bright, hardworking youths cannot achieve
their potential.

Dreamers like Francisco came into the land of opportunity and seized that
opportunity, studying to become teachers, doctors and lawyers and succeeding
above all odds. These Dreamers are living the real American dream, and yet
because of one simple paper, they are blocked from achieving their dreams.

In June, President Barack Obama honored the importance of these youths and the
lack of options they have by signing into effect Deferred Action for Childhood
arrivals. DACA gives a way for illegal immigrant youths to live and work legally
in the U.S. for two years.

Youths such as Francisco cried tears of joy and relief to know that they finally
had options for success. But DACA is a temporary, discretionary program that
could be revoked at any time. And there is no direct path from deferred action
to lawful permanent residence or citizenship.

If America is truly the land of equal opportunity, it is time for us to provide
real options for dreamers. Show your support for the pursuit of the American
dream by advocating for pathways to legal permanent residency and citizenship
for dreamers, and by voting for illegal immigrants to be Time's Person of the
Year atwww.time.com before Dec. 12.

Jenna Carlsson is a community advocate. She lives in Berkeley.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 8, 2012 Saturday

Undocumented immigrants seek deportation protection at Richmond summit

BYLINE: By Gary Peterson Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 461 words


RICHMOND -- It was June when President Barack Obama announced the deferred
action program, whereby qualified undocumented immigrants may receive two years
of protection from deportation. By October, applications were pouring in at the
rate of 5,328 per day.

The flow slowed as Election Day neared and fears among immigrants mounted that a
Republican administration might repeal the program. Now, with Obama having been
re-elected and Democrats having made gains in Congress:

"I think you've already seen a number of Republican senators saying they have to
give serious consideration to immigration reform," said Rep. George Miller
(D-Martinez), who hosted a deferred action summit Saturday at DeJean Middle
School. "The Dream Act is probably the one they're most comfortable with. I
think if you put it to a vote today, it would pass."

Deferred action is still new enough to be considered a revelation to some
undocumented immigrants.

"Who would have thought five years ago that we would be able to apply for a work
permit, or drive a car without being afraid of being pulled over by a cop?"
Carlos Martinez, master of ceremonies for Saturday's event, asked a crowd of
about 150.

The summit provided resources, including translation services, for those
interested in applying. Catholic Charities, RYSE Youth Center, International
Rescue Committee and the U.S. Department of Labor had information tables in the
school's multiuse room.

Martinez, a Richmond resident who cofounded CLOUD (Community Leaders Organizing
Undocumented Dreamers), said he was in Los Angeles preparing to engage in civil
disobedience outside a detention center when he learned of Obama's announcement.

"Everyone was crying," he said. "It has changed my life drastically, from being
in the shadows to jobs that are now well-paid. It has impacted the lives of
thousands of young undocumented students."

According to the Immigration Policy Center, 1.8 million undocumented youths
could meet the requirements for deferred action. According to the latest data
released by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, 308,935 applications were
received through Nov. 20. Of those, 53,273 were approved, 10,101 were rejected
and the rest were pending.

To Miller, who held a similar summit at Pleasant Hill's Diablo Valley College in
August, immigration overhaul would produce wide-ranging community benefits.

"It would rekindle the aspirations of why the immigrant community came here," he
said. "It came here for a better life, and the foundation of that is education.
So now you see your child or yourself can get a college education. You now have
no limits. This is a very big part of our future economy to cultivate this kind
of talent."

Contact Gary Peterson at 925-952-5053. Follow him atTwitter.com/garyscribe .

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 9, 2012 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama needs to end Secure Communities program

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 750 words


SAN DIEGO -- President Barack Obama's over-the-top approach to immigration
enforcement -- including an overreliance on the harmful program known as Secure
Communities -- has devastated immigrant communities in the United States.

And it has divided Democrats.

This became clear last year when three Democratic governors -- Deval Patrick of
Massachusetts, Pat Quinn of Illinois and Andrew Cuomo of New York -- announced
they were pulling out of Secure Communities, only to be informed by Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) that they couldn't because -- despite assurances
that the program was optional -- participation was mandatory.

The bureaucratic snake oil didn't end there. In theory, Secure Communities --
which acts as a force multiplier because it requires local police submit to
federal authorities the fingerprints of anyone they arrest who they suspect
might be in the country illegally (i.e., anyone who looks Latino) -- should
focus only on serious and violent criminals. But, in practice, ICE wants the
program to apply to anyone who is in police custody for any offense. It also
wants local authorities to hold confirmed illegal immigrants until federal
authorities can pick them up.

This means that any traffic stop of an undocumented nanny or housekeeper, or any
case of domestic violence where the victim is taken to the station house and
fingerprinted, or any arrest of a street vendor for selling ice cream without a
permit could lead to full-blown deportation proceedings. Under Secure
Communities, which was launched in 2008, the punishment need not fit the crime;
all that matters is that it fits the political agenda of a White House eager to
be seen as tough on illegal immigration.

Other Democrats opposed to Secure Communities include House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, and San Jose Rep. Zoe Lofgren.

Now the division within the party has spread to California, where the top two
statewide officials are at odds over the program.

State Attorney General Kamala Harris recently told local and state law
enforcement agencies that they are free not to comply with Secure Communities.
The Los Angeles Police Department -- the largest in the state -- had already
chosen to opt out; police Chief Charlie Beck announced in October that he was
pulling his officers out of the program.

Without using the word, Harris is essentially accusing the Obama administration
of fraud. She told reporters that, despite the initial pitch that the program
would focus on the most serious criminals, and a direct assurance from ICE
officials last year that the program would be retooled to make such a result
happen, a state review of data from March to June showed that as many as 28
percent of those targeted for deportation in California were not criminals.

"Secure Communities has not held up to what it aspired to be," Harris said.

And so, she said, local and state police agencies are under no legal obligation
to honor requests by ICE that they detain suspected illegal immigrants. Each
agency can decide for itself.

On the other side of this issue is California Gov. Jerry Brown, who in early
fall outraged immigration rights activists by vetoing a piece of legislation
called the TRUST Act. Authored by Democratic Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, the bill
would have barred local law enforcement from cooperating with federal
immigration agents unless the detainees in question were charged with serious or
violent felonies.

Brown tried to justify his veto with a song and dance about how the bill was
flawed, and how he wanted it to be better, and how he'd be happy to sign a new
and improved version. The governor should have just admitted that he was doing a
favor for the Obama administration by sparing it embarrassment during an
election year.

Ammiano has introduced a modified version of the bill.

Besides, Brown's double-talk might have been more believable if his last job
hadn't been the one that Harris has now. When he was state attorney general,
Brown expressed support for Secure Communities as a legitimate tool of law
enforcement. In 2009, he even signed the agreements with the federal government
that helped get the program off the ground.

Secure Communities has wrought enough division and done enough damage. President
Obama talks a good game about wanting to fix the immigration system. He can
start by correcting past mistakes, and putting an end to a program gone wild.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday

Mercury News editorial: Santa Clara County should revise policy on immigration
holds

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 524 words


Santa Clara County needs to revise an unwise policy that allows undocumented
immigrants with a history of violent or serious crimes to be released back into
the community rather than held for federal immigration agents and possibly
deported.

Last year, the county board of supervisors approved a policy that would not
allow undocumented immigrants to be held for several extra days for federal
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers to interview them -- unless the
feds paid for the detention. Since ICE won't pay, the individuals are released
on bail or, if they've served a sentence, on probation.

This makes sense for nonviolent offenders caught up in minor infractions, but
not for everyone. So District Attorney Jeff Rosen is asking the supervisors to
revise the policy to honor ICE detention requests for those who have a history
of violent or serious crimes, gang members, anyone convicted of a felony other
than drug use or possession and DUI offenders who have injured someone or have
multiple convictions.

The controversy is over the program Secure Communities, which has been
aggressively deporting undocumented immigrants, including parents whose children
are citizens. Community activists and some law enforcement officials worry that
connecting local police with immigration enforcement will deter some crime
victims and witnesses from cooperating with police, ultimately making whole
communities less safe.

Other cities and counties across the country have resisted Secure Communities,
but only Cook County around Chicago has gone as far as this one by treating
everyone like a U.S. citizen. Rosen and Sheriff Laurie Smith objected when the
policy passed, and we suggested evaluating the results.

Rosen compiled data from October 2011 through February 2012 and says 110 people
who were released would have been detained under the policy he now advocates.
Six were sex offenders, eight were residential burglars, 10 were gang members
and 12 were drunk drivers. Thirty left town. So far, none has been rearrested.
But San Francisco backtracked on a similar policy after juveniles it released
went on to kill several people. Let's not wait for that here.

A group of law enforcement officials that includes acting public defender Molly
O'Neal is considering Rosen's proposal. O'Neal supports a change, though she
would choose a narrower set of criteria than Rosen for holding people. Details
of what crimes would trigger detention can be worked out.

Earlier this year, the California Legislature passed the Trust Act, which would
deny federal immigration holds through Secure Communities except for serious or
violent felons -- essentially, the policy Rosen advocates for Santa Clara
County. Gov. Jerry Brown vetoed it but said he was open to signing a modified
version.

The Trust Act was strongly supported by dozens of immigration advocacy groups --
and by Supervisor George Shirakawa, the architect of Santa Clara County's
current policy. This county doesn't need a more lenient policy on immigration
holds than the one immigrant rights advocates have been pushing for all of
California. The supervisors should revise the county's rules.



LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Federal immigration agents taking suspected illegal immigrants into
custody during an operation in San Jose area. (Staff archives)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 21, 2012 Friday

U.S. ending pursuit of illegal immigrants who commit minor crimes

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; Peninsula; Alameda County; Special
Reports; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 640 words


Federal agents no longer will scoop up jailed illegal immigrants who had been
picked up by police for traffic offenses and other petty crimes, the nation's
top immigration enforcer announced Friday.

"We are changing who" we seek to deport, said John Morton, the director of U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The new policy, Morton said, restricts action "against individuals arrested for
minor misdemeanor offenses ... helping to ensure that available resources are
focused on apprehending felons, repeat offenders and other ICE priorities,"
according to a written statement.

At the same time, he announced the United States had deported a record 409,000
people in the past year.

The policy change drew mild praise and stronger criticism from a number of
sources. The American Civil Liberties Union and the California Immigrant Policy
Center welcomed it but hit what they called the continuing lack of due process
that deprives illegal immigrants of access to courts. The Asian Law Caucus
called the change "window dressing," saying that innocent people charged with
felonies could still be deported.

Many called for passage of a California "Trust Act" to protect illegal
immigrants who largely abide by the law, a measure Gov. Jerry Brown vetoed in
September. The governor's veto message said he would support a bill if it
ensures immigrants with "troubling criminal records" are kept in custody.

Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, promised an early 2013 fight to win
passage of the legislation.

Morton changed the national policy just as sheriffs around the Bay Area were
rethinking their cooperation with the controversial federal Secure Communities
immigration program.

Their shift responds to the immigrant community concerns in places such as
Contra Costa County, which is among the top counties nationwide in sending
people without criminal records to deportation.

Since April 2010, only one-quarter of the 1,789 people deported after Contra
Costa County turned them over had been convicted of crimes the federal
government describes as "serious." Nearly 40 percent had been convicted of no
crimes.

Like many jurisdictions around the country, the county jails the immigrants as
part of the Secure Communities program, a fingerprint-sharing network it joined
in 2010. Fingerprint checks that reveal deportable immigrants result in the
jails holding them for up to 48 hours for federal agents.

Secure Communities "was intended to target the most dangerous and serious
criminals," said Contra Costa Sheriff David Livingston. "In practice it may be
something different from that."

Livingston and his counterparts in Alameda, Napa and San Mateo counties had
begun talking about whether to free such immigrants if there was no reason
beyond their immigration status to hold them.

"There's general consensus that we're going to take a look at our policies,"
said San Mateo County Sheriff Greg Munks.

Los Angeles and San Diego counties were also re-evaluating their approach. Santa
Clara County, an early critic of Secure Communities that fought to opt out of
the program, has since limited who it holds for immigration agents.

Livingston said this week he plans to stop holding immigrants for federal agents
if all the immigrants did was drive without a license, drink in public or commit
other minor offenses.

"We're not immigration enforcement officers here in the county," he said.

"My overriding concern is, of course, public safety," Livingston said. "We don't
want to release someone who turns out to be a violent offender."

State Attorney General Kamala Harris on Dec. 4 issued an opinion finding that
police are not obligated to respond to ICE requests to detain low-level
offenders.

According to those present, Morton acknowledged the same thing two days later at
a meeting in Oakland with Governor Brown and sheriffs from around the state.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: People demonstrate in front of the Supreme Court in Washington on April
25, 2012, as the court questions Arizona's "show me your papers" immigration
law.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 29, 2012 Saturday

Ruben Navarrette: California is all over the map on illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 778 words


SAN DIEGO -- When it comes to how California handles illegal immigrants, the
state is all over the map. Not unlike the rest of the country, the Golden State
can't decide whether it wants to make life comfortable for the undocumented or
make them so unhappy that it runs them off.

'Twas always thus. Consider my home state's history over the past few decades.

In the 1980s, Republican Sen. Pete Wilson of California -- at the behest of
agribusiness -- drove support for the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which
President Ronald Reagan signed into law in 1986. The legislation granted amnesty
to about 3 million illegal immigrants.

Then in the 1990s, when Wilson -- who had come home to serve as governor --
found himself with dismal approval ratings and a tough re-election battle, he
drove support for Proposition 187, which California voters approved in 1994. The
ballot initiative -- later struck down as unconstitutional -- denied illegal
immigrants and their U.S.-born children access to schools, welfare and
nonemergency health care.

Today, the tradition continues. And now, it's Democrats who are being
inconsistent.

One minute, Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown is signing a bill to expand educational
opportunity for undocumented youth by letting them compete for scholarships to
attend public colleges and universities in the state. The next minute, Brown all
but ensures that more of these students and their parents will get deported when
he vetoes another bill aimed at reining in Secure Communities, a program the
Obama administration uses to coerce local police into enforcing federal
immigration law.

Now, in a recent development, the flagship institution in the University of
California system -- UC Berkeley -- has announced that it is forming a $1
million scholarship fund for undocumented immigrant students. Believed to be the
largest scholarship of its kind at any university in the country, it is being
funded by a donation from a private foundation. When the Dreamers Fund is
established in 2013, as many as 200 undocumented students from 20 countries will
be eligible to apply. The awards are in the amount of $8,000. To qualify,
students need at least a 3.0 grade-point average.

The new scholarship will come in handy. While getting into a college or
university isn't usually a problem for many illegal immigrant students, paying
the tuition can be. The undocumented are ineligible for federal grants or
student loans. To address that problem, the California Legislature passed a law
last year declaring undocumented students eligible to receive private
scholarships offered by state colleges and universities.

The scholarship takes its name from the Dream Act, legislation that would have
provided a pathway to legal status and citizenship to those who attended college
or joined the military. The Democratic-controlled Senate killed the bill in
December 2010 when five Democrats voted against cloture. Otherwise, in the 2012
elections, Democrats might have been slapped with the label of being weak on
illegal immigration.

While some Californians grumble about offering scholarships to illegal
immigrants, there is really nothing wrong with it. There is a legitimate debate
to be had over whether illegal immigrants should have access to public funds.
Those who feel strongly that illegal immigration is destroying California
certainly don't want to see their tax dollars go to educate young people who
shouldn't be here in the first place.

I don't agree with that point of view, but I understand it. We all should. Yet,
this is private money, and the University of California is free to use it
however specified by the donors. Case closed.

Besides, there's an added benefit. In a larger sense, the Dreamers Fund is an
honest acknowledgment by the University of California of a couple of things that
most people don't want to admit. First, that many undocumented students are
hardworking and productive, and they deserve financial support from private
individuals. And second, that Californians owe a debt to the estimated 3 million
undocumented residents who call the state home. Despite what many people think,
these immigrants pay taxes (sales, municipal, property). And they help keep the
state's economy humming along by maintaining the profit margins for the
multitude of businesses -- farms, ranches, landscaping companies, construction
firms, meat-processing factories, hotels, restaurants, etc. -- that hire them
and then turn around and pay state taxes as well.

Thank you, University of California. Honesty is hard to come by in just about
any aspect of the immigration debate, and it is much appreciated.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 30, 2012 Sunday

Ruben Navarrette: Scholarships for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 778 words


When it comes to how California handles illegal immigrants, the state is all
over the map. Not unlike the rest of the country, the Golden State can't decide
whether it wants to make life comfortable for the undocumented or make them so
unhappy that it runs them off.

'Twas always thus. Consider my home state's history over the past few decades.

In the 1980s, Republican Sen. Pete Wilson of California -- at the behest of
agribusiness -- drove support for the Immigration Reform and Control Act, which
President Ronald Reagan signed into law in 1986. The legislation granted amnesty
to about 3 million illegal immigrants.

Then, in the 1990s, when Wilson -- who had come home to serve as governor --
found himself with dismal approval ratings and a tough re-election battle, he
drove support for Proposition 187, which California voters approved in 1994. The
ballot initiative -- later struck down as unconstitutional -- denied illegal
immigrants and their U.S.-born children access to schools, welfare and
non-emergency health care.

Today, the tradition continues. And now, it's Democrats who are being
inconsistent.

One minute, Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown is signing a bill to expand educational
opportunity for undocumented youth by letting them compete for scholarships to
attend public colleges and universities in the state. The next minute, Brown all
but ensures that more of these students and their parents will get deported when
he vetoes another bill aimed at reining in Secure Communities, a program the
Obama administration uses to coerce local police into enforcing federal
immigration law.

Now, in a recent development, the flagship institution in the University of
California system -- UC Berkeley -- has announced that it is forming a $1
million scholarship fund for undocumented immigrant students. Believed to be the
largest scholarship of its kind at any university in the country, it is being
funded by a donation from a private foundation. When the Dreamers Fund is
established in 2013, as many as 200 undocumented students from 20 countries will
be eligible to apply. The awards are in the amount of $8,000. To qualify,
students need at least a 3.0 grade-point average.

The new scholarship will come in handy. While getting into a college or
university isn't usually a problem for many illegal immigrant students, paying
the tuition can be. The undocumented are ineligible for federal grants or
student loans. To address that problem, the California Legislature passed a law
last year declaring undocumented students eligible to receive private
scholarships offered by state colleges and universities.

The scholarship takes its name from the DREAM Act, legislation that would have
provided a pathway to legal status and citizenship to those who attended college
or joined the military. The Democratic-controlled Senate killed the bill in
December 2010 when five Democrats voted against cloture. Otherwise, in the 2012
elections, Democrats might have been slapped with the label of being weak on
illegal immigration.

While some Californians grumble about offering scholarships to illegal
immigrants, there is really nothing wrong with it. There is a legitimate debate
to be had over whether illegal immigrants should have access to public funds.
Those who feel strongly that illegal immigration is destroying California
certainly don't want to see their tax dollars go to educate young people who
shouldn't be here in the first place.

I don't agree with that point of view, but I understand it. We all should. Yet,
this is private money, and the University of California is free to use it
however specified by the donors. Case closed.

Besides, there's an added benefit. In a larger sense, the Dreamers Fund is an
honest acknowledgement by the University of California of a couple of things
that most people don't want to admit. First, that many undocumented students are
hardworking and productive, and they deserve financial support from private
individuals. And second, that Californians owe a debt to the estimated 3 million
undocumented residents who call the state home. Despite what many people think,
these immigrants pay taxes (sales, municipal, property). And they help keep the
state's economy humming along by maintaining the profit margins for the
multitude of businesses -- farms, ranches, landscaping companies, construction
firms, meat-processing factories, hotels, restaurants, etc. -- that hire them
and then turn around and pay state taxes as well.

Thank you, University of California. Honesty is hard to come by in just about
any aspect of the immigration debate, and it is much appreciated.

Contact Ruben Navarrette atruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Romney could be in trouble with California's Latinos

BYLINE: Bythomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 796 words


As he pushed further and further to the right in his effort to fend off the
corps of arch-conservative rivals for his party's presidential nomination,
Republican front-runner Mitt Romney probably didn't think some of what he was
doing would have much effect in the larger states that will provide most of the
popular and electoral votes this fall, especially California.

But one Romney move in South Carolina's January primary might have more impact
than he ever guessed, if it's used effectively by Democrats.

For he campaigned side-by-side there with the Kansas secretary of state, not
exactly a well-known national figure even if he probably should be.

Kris Kobach, whose endorsement Romney eagerly sought, is the primary author of
the draconian anti-illegal immigrant laws adopted first in Arizona and later in
southern states such as Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina. Those laws compel
police to check the immigration status of anyone they encounter who offers the
slightest indication of being undocumented. Essentially, this compels anyone not
obviously Anglo or black to carry identification at all times. Go jogging in the
neighborhood? You'd better bring your driver's license. Take a quick stroll to
the corner market? You'd better bring more than mere cash.

In Alabama, some police chiefs have lately advised officers not to do much with
that state's law. "That 'illegal' you stop," one chief told his force, "is
probably a scientist at NASA Huntsville, an executive of the Mercedes Benz
factory outside Tuscaloosa or a medical researcher at the University of
Alabama-Birmingham." All those prestige outfits employ many skilled -- and
swarthy -- immigrants.

The immigration measures may be somewhat popular where they've passed, but
Romney's association with their main author will almost certainly be exploited
by President Obama's re-election campaign elsewhere, especially in large states
like Illinois, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and, of course, California -- places
where the ever-increasing Latino vote can be decisive.

In California, where Romney owns a beachfront home near San Diego, an increase
in Hispanic voters converted the state from steadily Republican (GOP in all but
one presidential election from 1952 through 1988) to solidly Democratic.

No, Obama won't advertise much in California. The state is too emphatically blue
for him to need many ads here. But his party will be foolish if it doesn't
exploit Romney's embrace of Kobach in several upcoming competitive campaigns for
lesser offices in Congress or the Legislature. The Democratic hope would be for
a kind of reverse coattail effect.

Such an effect might significantly reduce the already puny Republican vote among
California Latinos. Meg Whitman, the GOP's last candidate for governor, got just
34 percent of Hispanic votes, where it would have taken at least 40 percent to
give her any chance against Democrat Jerry Brown.

Several surveys taken by Miami-based Sergio Bendixen, usually the most accurate
pollster of Latino sentiment, show that immigration is the top issue for most
Hispanics in America. Cuban-Americans, whose votes in Florida contributed
heavily to Romney's big win there, are a conservative exception among Latinos,
but even most of them want amnesty for many illegal immigrants.

Bendixen's polls indicate that Latinos who are U.S. citizens believe they are
adversely affected when tough anti-illegal immigrant rhetoric or laws become
common.

So Romney's full embrace of Kobach and the stop-on-suspicion approach Kobach
grew to favor while an attorney for the strongly anti-illegal immigrant
Federation for American Immigration Reform may have helped him ward off his
far-right opposition in the early primaries and it may help him secure the
nomination, but it would likely make California even more Democratic.

The Romney embrace of Kobach also demonstrates that he may not fully understand
modern communications. For within days of campaigning with Kobach in South
Carolina, Romney was on the hustings in Florida with Hispanic Republican (read:
Cuban-American) state legislators who back varying forms of amnesty.

Three of those he was with support the proposed federal DREAM Act that aims to
open university and employment opportunities to children of illegals. Romney
pledges to veto that act if it ever passes Congress. Yet, his Spanish-language
TV commercials in Florida promised to "open doors" for immigrants of all types.

With even fellow Republicans accusing Romney of "pandering," the main California
effect of all this would likely be more distaste for Republicans than Latino
voters already manifest. Which could delay for years any significant GOP
recovery here.

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. Email
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Tech companies, California reach settlement on mobile-app privacy; pondering
social media's effects; more

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 289 words


California Attorney General Kamala Harris on Wednesday announced a sweeping
privacy agreement with the six largest mobile Web providers - including Apple
and Google - declaring that the state would enforce existing privacy laws
against mobile app developers for the first time.

Scott Herhold writes : In the three weeks since Facebook filed for its IPO, I've
pondered Mark Zuckerberg's manifesto   the one that asserts Facebook will
empower people and make governments more accountable by connecting users across
the planet. As I read through the manifesto, I'm partly reminded of political
movements, born of idealism, that caused us so much woe in the last century.

Mike Cassidy writes : Living in the cloud is cool, convenient and the best thing
since the remote control. Until it isn't. When we're flitting from Twitter to
Facebook to Google, it's easy to forget that one well-aimed cyberstrike can turn
our digital lives upside down.

Hewlett-Packard reported a decline in sales and a sharp drop in profit
Wednesday, as new CEO Meg Whitman warned "we have a long road ahead of us" in
turning around the mammoth tech company.

Even as the nation's top immigration official praised a select group of
accomplished immigrants in a naturalization ceremony at Moffett Field, many of
the new citizens and others expressed candid frustration at the bureaucratic
hurdles that can make it hard to settle in the United States.

Palo Alto-based OnLive, the cloud gaming pioneer, on Wednesday launched a new
way for iPad users to view Flash content and surf the Web more quickly.

LinkedIn has acquired San Francisco startup Rapportive , which incorporates
social media with Google's popular Web-based email service, the two companies
confirmed Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Top 10 companies and metro regions seeking temporary foreign workers via H-1B
visas

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


The Brookings Institution is releasing a report Wednesday detailing which
regions and companies seek the most H-1B visas for temporary foreign workers
with specialty skills.

The United States grants 85,000 new three-year visas each year, with 20,000 set
aside for people with advanced degrees but also allows some universities and
nonprofits to seek H-1B workers outside of the annual cap.

Top 10 companies seeking H-1Bs nationwide

1. Microsoft

2. Tata Consultancy Services

3. Deloitte Consulting

4. Wipro Limited

5. Cognizant Technology Solutions

6. Larson & Toubro

7. IBM India

8. Infosys

9. Intel

10. IBM

Top 10 companies seeking H-1Bs in the Bay Area

1. Google

2. Apple

3. Yahoo

4. Oracle

5. eBay

6. Intel

7. VMWare

8. UC San Francisco

9. Cisco Systems

10. PayPal

Top 10 metro regions for H-1B demand

1. New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (16.3 percent of total granted)

2. Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana (5.5)

3. San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont (5)

4. San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara (4.6)

5. Washington, D.C. (4.5)

6. Chicago (4.3)

7. Boston (3.5)

8. Dallas-Fort Worth (3.3)

9. Houston (3.1)

10. Seattle (3)

Top 10 metro regions for 'H-1B intensity,' H-1B requests per 1,000 workers

1. San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara (17.1)

2. Columbus, Ind. (14.6)

3. Durham, N.C. (9.79)

4. Trenton, N.J. (8.46)

5. San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont (8.41)

6. Bloomington, Ill. (7.84)

7. New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island (6.32)

8. Bridgeport, Conn. (5.67)

9. Seattle (5.6)

10. Washington, D.C. (4.76)

Top 10 occupations for H-1B requests nationwide

1. Computer occupations (46.8 percent of total)

2. Engineers (8.2)

3. Nurses and other health diagnosing and treating practitioners (6.4)

4. Financial specialists (5.7)

5. Business operations specialists (4)

6. Life scientists (3.7)

7. Social scientists (2.4)

8. Postsecondary teachers (2.4)

9. Operations specialties managers (2.2)

10. Other management occupations (2.2)

Sources: Brookings Institution; U.S. Department of Labor

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Silicon Valley ranks highest in 'H-1B intensity' for foreign worker visas

BYLINE: The Street

SECTION: THESTREET

LENGTH: 548 words


http://business-news.thestreet.com//story/silicon-valley-ranks-highest-h-1b-inte
nsity-foreign-worker-visas-0/1 (hidethestreet)

The Bay Area ranks behind only metropolitan New York in recruiting high-skilled
workers from abroad, but it's not just Silicon Valley tech giants on the hunt
for foreign labor, according to a new report.

Sure, a batch of familiar names -- Google, Apple, Yahoo, Oracle, eBay, Intel --
leads the pack of companies seeking to bring foreign tech workers to the Bay
Area on temporary H-1B visas, but thousands of other local employers, big and
small, are in the temporary foreign worker game.

"It's not just about the Bay Area, New York, Boston and Seattle. It's also not
just about great-big companies," said Sean Randolph, president of the Bay Area
Council Economic Institute, a business advocate. "These (visas) are being used
by a lot of startups."

The report released Wednesday by the Brookings Institutionis the first to detail
where in the country H-1B workers are sought, confirming conventional wisdom of
the South Bay as an H-1B hub but also revealing surprises.

Silicon Valley ranks highest in what Brookings calls "H-1B intensity," with 17
foreign workers sought for every 1,000 people in the workforce.

Next on the H-1B per-capita list is more surprising: Columbus, Ind., home to
engine-maker Cummins; Durham, N.C., where universities are the biggest H-1B
seekers; and the area surrounding New Jersey's capital, Trenton, led in the
foreign worker search by banks, drugmakers, IT outsourcers and the group at
Princeton University that runs Graduate Record Examinations.

Employers can sponsor foreign workers with "specialty" skills on the three-year
visas if they try to show local workers lack needed skills. The government
grants 85,000 H-1Bs each year, setting aside 20,000 for people with advanced
degrees. The visas ran out in 10 weeks this year, faster than at any time since
before the recession.

More than 60 percent of the workers sought by Bay Area companies work in
"computer occupations." The second largest group is engineers.

Financial specialists and life scientists also rank high in the San
Francisco-East Bay region, with many of the scientists recruited by UC San
Francisco. The annual 85,000 cap does not apply to universities and some other
nonprofit institutions.

Amid an ongoing political debate over whether H-1B workers take away U.S. jobs
and lower wages, the report's author, Neil Ruiz, said he hopes the geographical
breakdowns will add nuance to a national debate focused on the biggest
companies.

For instance, the fees companies pay for the visas fund tech and science
training grants for American workers, and Ruiz found the grants were higher in
states -- such as Kansas and Maine -- where the demand for visas was lower.

An exception was a $5 million grant from H-1B revenues awarded this year to San
Francisco-based educational group WestEd for a four-year project to help IBM and
AT&T workers keep up with new technology, and also to train the unemployed.

"What those fees are supposed to do is train local workers to have those skills"
that H-1B workers are recruited for, said Matthew Spaur, a spokesman for WestEd.

"The H-1B workers are paying to replace themselves ... and making local people
more competitive in a global economy."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Mayer faces tough challenge at Yahoo; soaring rents; H-1B visas and more

SECTION: COLUMNISTS

LENGTH: 417 words


As the intensely focused 37-year-old engineer who helped create many of the
digital tools that now seem second nature to us started her new job Tuesday
morning as Yahoo's CEO, Marissa Mayer may find that applying her type-A tactical
skills at a hobbled Internet iconwill be anything but a cakewalk.

Just when the world had started to digest the news that Google superstar Marissa
Mayer was taking over as CEO at ailing Web pioneer Yahoo, Mayer told an
interviewer thatshe's pregnant with her first child.

On its new CEO's first day on the job,Yahoo posted quarterly earnings that
lagged Wall Street's expectations by one measure but surpassed them by another.

Bay Area rentsare hitting their highest levels ever , according to a report
Wednesday, and they're being pushed up by demand from an improving jobs market
and the lingering hangover from the housing recession.

The Bay Area ranks behind only metropolitan New Yorkin recruiting high-skilled
workers from abroad , but it's not just Silicon Valley tech giants on the hunt
for foreign labor, according to a new report.

Santa Clara chip giant Intel on Tuesdayreported quarterly sales in line with
analysts' expectations and its earnings per share were slightly better than
anticipated, but the company warned that the soured economy is hampering its
business.

EMCreplaced the respected CEO of Palo Alto software company VMware on Tuesday in
a shuffling of executives between the parent company and its subsidiary.

Brian Wong has been called the youngest person ever to land venture capital
backing. Now he's back at it. Wong is co-founder and CEO of Kiip, a San
Francisco startup that lets mobile-gaming companies reward users with real-world
prizes and perks. On Tuesday,Kiip announced its third round of venture funding
-- $11 million from Relay Ventures, Hummer Winblad and True Ventures.

San Francisco-basedCharles Schwab earned $275 million on revenues of $1.28
billion for its second quarter that ended June 30, although Schwab's profits
were bolstered by the resolution of a previously disclosed dispute with a
vendor.

Thecost of living is rising in the Bay Area, a report released Tuesday by
federal officials shows. Consumer prices in the San Jose-Oakland-San Francisco
metro region rose 2.6 percent during the one year that ended in June, the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics reported.

Pleasanton-based Patelco Credit Union has launched an "Anywhere Deposit" service
that enables customers to capture their depositsby camera on their mobile
devices.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Silicon Valley ranks highest in 'H-1B intensity' for foreign worker visas

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business

LENGTH: 527 words


The Bay Area ranks behind only metropolitan New York in recruiting high-skilled
workers from abroad, but it's not just Silicon Valley tech giants on the hunt
for foreign labor, according to a new report.

Sure, a batch of familiar names -- Google, Apple, Yahoo, Oracle, eBay, Intel --
leads the pack of companies seeking to bring foreign tech workers to the Bay
Area on temporary H-1B visas, but thousands of other local employers, big and
small, are in the temporary foreign worker game.

"It's not just about the Bay Area, New York, Boston and Seattle. It's also not
just about great-big companies," said Sean Randolph, president of the Bay Area
Council Economic Institute, a business advocate. "These (visas) are being used
by a lot of startups."

Thereport released Wednesday by the Brookings Institution is the first to detail
where in the country H-1B workers are sought, confirming conventional wisdom of
the South Bay as an H-1B hub but also revealing surprises.

Silicon Valley ranks highest in what Brookings calls "H-1B intensity," with 17
foreign workers sought for every 1,000 people in the workforce.

Next on the H-1B per-capita list is more surprising: Columbus, Ind., home to
engine-maker Cummins; Durham, N.C., where universities are the biggest H-1B
seekers; and the area surrounding New Jersey's capital, Trenton, led in the
foreign worker search by banks, drugmakers, IT outsourcers and the group at
Princeton University that runs Graduate Record Examinations.

Employers can sponsor foreign workers with "specialty" skills on the three-year
visas if they try to show local workers lack needed skills. The government
grants 85,000 H-1Bs each year, setting aside 20,000 for people with advanced
degrees. The visas ran out in 10 weeks this year, faster than at any time since
before the recession.

More than 60 percent of the workers sought by Bay Area companies work in
"computer occupations." The second largest group is engineers.

Financial specialists and life scientists also rank high in the San
Francisco-East Bay region, with many of the scientists recruited by UC San
Francisco. The annual 85,000 cap does not apply to universities and some other
nonprofit institutions.

Amid an ongoing political debate over whether H-1B workers take away U.S. jobs
and lower wages, the report's author, Neil Ruiz, said he hopes the geographical
breakdowns will add nuance to a national debate focused on the biggest
companies.

For instance, the fees companies pay for the visas fund tech and science
training grants for American workers, and Ruiz found the grants were higher in
states -- such as Kansas and Maine -- where the demand for visas was lower.

An exception was a $5 million grant from H-1B revenues awarded this year to San
Francisco-based educational group WestEd for a four-year project to help IBM and
AT&T workers keep up with new technology, and also to train the unemployed.

"What those fees are supposed to do is train local workers to have those skills"
that H-1B workers are recruited for, said Matthew Spaur, a spokesman for WestEd.

"The H-1B workers are paying to replace themselves ... and making local people
more competitive in a global economy."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 9, 2012 Monday

Jan. 7 letters to the editor

BYLINE: Letters from our readers Oakland Tribune © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News
Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 891 words


It's up to the workers to stop illegal scabs

The expulsion from Pacific Steel of about 200 illegal scabs portrays very
clearly the current situation of unemployment for U.S. workers. More than half
of the unemployment rate is caused by illegal workers usurping our jobs.

The current situation is a result of a well-orchestrated scabbing operation that
started with the Reagan administration's legalization of illegals in the
mid-1980s that encouraged millions of these illegals to come to the United
States.

Soon, many companies shut down unionized shops to open new ones where there were
higher concentration of illegal immigrants, paying a half or a third of the
union wages.

In some cases, the shops would reopen at the same place, after a period of time
and under a different legal ownership. In other cases, like in the auto
industries, entire sections were outsourced to smaller shops around the country.

The federal government still refuses to fully implement the laws that prohibit
employment for people who are not U.S. citizens or legal residents.

While we, the workers, celebrate the expulsion of these scabs from Pacific
Steel, actions like this one must be multiplied by thousands. It is ultimately
up to the U.S. workers to make it happen.

Leo T. West

San Leandro

Immigrants must enter the country legally

The recent article, "Fired steel employees say final goodbyes," is obviously
trying to elicit sympathy for illegals breaking the law.

My brother-in-law was killed on Sept. 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center by
terrorists who were operating in the United States of America illegally. Recent
studies have shown that up to 50 percent of illegals have criminal records.

California's Medi-Cal is picking up the yearly bill on thousands of illegal
immigrants who cross the border to birth their children in America. They seek to
have their babies free of any bills and to establish themselves with an
American-born baby. The taxpayers of America pick up the millions of dollars in
bills that these illegal immigrants generate.

Can California and America continue to afford this? The answer is no. With the
current state of our economy and government cutbacks throughout the state, the
time to stop giving illegal immigrants concessions is now. Nobody wants to stop
entrance into America, we just want them to go through proper channels.

My grandmother was processed through Ellis Island as an immigrant. Illegal
immigrants today need to go through the same system to be checked out for
disease and criminal records. Let's protect America.

Stu Barnum

Pleasanton

Good news isn't news at all in Oakland

When Nike released a rare edition of retro Air Jordans, eager purchasers camped
overnight in hopes of snagging pairs of the coveted status symbols. News media
reported acts of violent mobs smashing down doors at malls, and police pepper
spraying unruly crowds.

Interestingly, while problems erupted all across the country, not any mention
was made of incidents in Oakland, a city with a reputation for uncontrollable
anarchy.

Why does Oakland only get attention when things go wrong? Why shouldn't our city
be cited when it is a good example of how smoothly an event can be handled?

At the Footlocker on Lakeshore Avenue on Dec. 22, an eager group of people
waited for the store to open, joking and conversing with the many OPD officers
standing guard. Within one-half hour, Footlocker opened, sold out of Jordans,
and closed again. The crowd dispersed, and the police cars left.

Nothing to see here, folks, move on. Nothing newsworthy, either, apparently.
Oakland folks behaving themselves. Not breaking windows.

Thanks, Oakland, I noticed.

Karen Smulevitz

Oakland

Accountability doesn't apply to the 1 percent

Money and power are the gods of the 1 percent. They are above the law.

Have bankers who suckered people into bad loans that cost them the loss of their
house and life savings been brought to trial? What about the lust for oil and
power that brought about the invasion and destruction of Iraq based on lies? Has
anyone of those responsible been brought to trial?

Have any of those who condoned torture and imprisoned people indefinitely
denying them their right to a lawyer been brought to trial? To mention only a
few of their crimes. The answer, of course, is no.

But those who cry out for justice and take nonviolent action to bring about a
just and more caring world are abused and arrested by the police and treated
with contempt as if they are the criminals. These are the everyday good citizens
who are the victims of the greedy 1 percent.

True democracy demands that we the people take action.

Joesph Mastrocola

Fremont

Developers don't care about history

Schilling Garden has been in existence since 1882. It is in the local Register
of Historic Resources and an irreplaceable part of Oakland history, as well as a
lovely respite in the cityscape. Yet Michael Joe O'Donogue wants to obliterate
it to build an enormous, incongruous 42-story building, cramming more people
into an already crowded urban area.

Real estate developers like O'Donogue are despicable; their goal is to get in,
get out, and make a lot of money -- all at the expense of history, beauty and
quality of life.

O'Donogue is accusing the preservationists who are trying to save Schilling
Garden of "skulduggery." Seriously? It's a wonder he can sleep at night.

Greta Dutcher

Alameda

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Oakland: Student protesters welcome Obama's immigration immunity plan but won't
leave his campaign office

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Kristin J. Bender Staff writers

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Education; News; National; State

LENGTH: 430 words


OAKLAND -- Two of four undocumented students who have been sitting in President
Barack Obama's downtown Oakland campaign office since Thursday afternoon
remained Friday night and said they planned to stay through the weekend.

After a 6 p.m. rally Friday, Blanca Vazquez, 22, who attends San Francisco State
University and Irving Pineda, 24, a UC Merced student, came out of the building,
having not eaten since about 2 p.m. Thursday, Vazquez said.

Luis Nolasco, 21, a recent Cal State San Bernardino graduate, and 24-year-old
Luis Serrano, a student at Los Angeles City College, remained behind. The two
men sat back to back on the carpet in front of the glass campaign office door at
the headquarters on Telegraph Avenue at 17th Street. They had been drinking
Pedialyte, an electrolyte replacement drink, and water for part of Friday but
were down to only water by Friday evening. Supporters have left food and
beverages outside for them, but building security refused to let them access it.

Obama announced an executive order Friday morning halting deportations of young
people who came to the United States when they were children. The order could
affect hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants by granting them protection
from deportation and temporary work permits for two years.

The Oakland protesters celebrated the surprise announcement as a partial victory
but said they wanted more. The order protects many young people from deportation
but does not give them legal residency or citizenship.

"They're going to stay there as long as they can, as long as they can hold up,"
said supporter Krsna Avila of the National Immigrant Youth Alliance.

Serrano, speaking by cellphone from inside the building, said Obama's move is
not a real change but "an illusion."

"He's saying 'I'm doing this for these kids,' but it's not what we wanted."

Serrano was locked out of the building for a time on Friday after he went into a
hallway where a restroom is located. He returned to the headquarters to sit in
protest on Friday evening when the other two protesters left.

Also joining the protest on Friday evening was the Brass Liberation Orchestra,
which played upbeat songs on the sidewalk outside the headquarters for more than
an hour.

Local campaign workers for Obama for America have not yet tried to kick the
protesters out, but they hired security guards to watch them and the office.
Linda M. Serrato, California press secretary for Obama for America, was not
available for comment Friday.

The Oakland sit-in followed a days-long occupation of Obama's Denver campaign
office last week.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Undocumented immigrants native from Mexico, Luis Serrano, 24, from
left, Blanca Vazquez, 22, Irving Pineda, 24, and Luis Nolasco, 21, occupy the
President Barack Obama campaign headquarters on Telegraph Avenue in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, June 14, 2012. Protesters want an executive order from
Obama halting deportations of young people brought to the country illegally when
they were minors and the passage of the Dream Act Immigration Reform. (Ray
Chavez/Staff)
Undocumented immigrants native from Mexico, Luis Serrano, 24, from left, Blanca
Vazquez, 22, Irving Pineda, 24, and Luis Nolasco, 21, occupy the President
Barack Obama campaign headquarters on Telegraph Avenue in Oakland, Calif., on
Thursday, June 14, 2012. Protesters want an executive order from Obama halting
deportations of young people brought to the country illegally when they were
minors and the passage of the Dream Act Immigration Reform. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Undocumented immigrants native from Mexico, left to right, Irving Pineda, 24,
Luis Nolasco, 21, and Blanca Vazquez, 22, occupy the President Barack Obama
campaign headquarters on Telegraph Avenue in Oakland, Calif., on Thursday, June
14, 2012. Protesters want an executive order from Obama halting deportations of
young people brought to the country illegally when they were minors and the
passage of the Dream Act Immigration Reform. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Claudia Marquez, of San Francisco Immigramt Youth Coalition, right, shows
support to four undocumented immigrants native from Mexico, who occupy the
President Barack Obama campaign headquarters on Telegraph Avenue in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, June 14, 2012. Protesters want an executive order from
Obama halting deportations of young people brought to the country illegally when
they were minors and the passage of the Dream Act Immigration Reform.(Ray
Chavez/Staff)
Four undocumented immigrants native from Mexico posted signs as they occupy the
President Barack Obama campaign headquarters on Telegraph Avenue in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, June 14, 2012. The protesters want an executive order from
Obama halting deportations of young people brought to the country illegally when
they were minors and the passage of the Dream Act Immigration Reform. (Ray
Chavez/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

East Bay leaders decry mass firing after immigration audit

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 651 words


Rogelio Espino expects to be fired from Pacific Steel and Casting this month
after 17 years working at the Berkeley plant.

The foundry is firing 200 workers -- a third of its workforce -- as a result of
a federal immigration audit that began earlier this year and found dozens of
workers suspected of being in the country illegally.

"It's painful for my family and painful for myself," Espino said. "It feels sad
because I was there for so long -- I started as a laborer, and I moved up to
supervisor, then to mechanic."

After appeals by the workers' union and complaints by local government leaders
fell short, the company began firing workers identified as "non residents" in
October. It will continue to dismiss groups of workers each week through
January.

The plant's union continues to protest the audit and mass firings through the
National Labor Relations Board, said Oakland City Council member Ignacio De La
Fuente, a union leader who has been representing Pacific Steel workers since the
late 1970s.

"It's really, really a terrible way for the (Obama) administration to force
people out of their jobs," said De La Fuente, who is vice president of the Glass
Molders International Union. "I have people who were there for 20 years."

Pacific Steel was notified that it was to be audited in February, said Pacific
Steel spokeswoman Elisabeth Jewel.

"This was not an action that the company invited," Jewel said. "It's been a very
wrenching experience for the company to lose so many highly valued, highly
skilled employees, some of whom have been there for decades."

In I-9 audits, sometimes known as a "silent raid," investigators check the legal
status of workers through the Social Security numbers and other records they
supplied to the business when hired. In many cases of illegal immigrants, that
documentation is forged.

Although the audits do not always lead to the deportation of workers, they do
force the employer to fire them.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement would not confirm that it has audited
Pacific Steel. Under a worksite enforcement push by the Obama administration,
the federal agency investigated the employee records of more than 2,000
companies in the past year but does not acknowledge individual audits unless
they lead to criminal prosecution.

"The inspections are opportunities for companies to get their stuff in order,"
said spokeswoman Lori Haley.

Pacific Steel is now checking on new hires with the federal E-Verify program.

When the audit began in February, De La Fuente said he believes immigration
agents "violated their own rules by initiating the audit at a time when we were
in collective bargaining negotiations."

He said the union has fought to delay the firings, giving workers time to
correct discrepancies on their forms and trying to help save the business in the
process.

"It was a real danger that this company could shut down if you pulled so many
people out at the same time," he said.

Most of the fired Pacific Steel workers had been there for several years and
were making hourly wages of between $18 and $25, De La Fuente said.

Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin is partnering with labor and religious groups to
hold a rally at St. Marks Catholic Church on Sunday afternoon  to support the
families of the workers caught in the raid.

"Their firing is a violation of their human rights," she said. "When they say
that these raids are targeting criminals, it's not true. People who are just
trying to make a living are being targeted big time."

About half of the fired workers live in Richmond and San Pablo, McLaughlin said.
The rally is timed to coincide with International Migrant Day as well as the
holiday season.

Espino, who moved to Oakland from central Mexico some 24 years ago, said he is
disappointed at the slow pace of immigration reform in this country.

"The politicians promise a lot of stuff but don't do anything -- it's just a
game for them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

The American dream reconsidered

BYLINE: By Gary Peterson Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 817 words


During a November march through San Francisco's financial district, Occupy
protesters fashioned a small makeshift grave in front of the Federal Reserve.
Inscribed on the cardboard headstone: The American Dream.

George Crisostomo believes that diagnosis is greatly exaggerated.

"Alive and well," he said when asked his view of the American dream -- the
belief that citizens of the United States can grow up to be or do anything they
want. "I think there still is a lot of opportunity."

Call it a matter of perspective. Occupiers, like many Americans, have been
battered by recession and become jaded by political gridlock. Crisostomo, a
computer architect from Walnut Creek, was born in the Philippines. He came to
the United States (via Singapore) in 1997. Wednesday, he was one of 1,213
immigrants from 102 countries to receive American citizenship at an oath-taking
ceremony in Oakland's Paramount Theater.

"The United States is really different in the way they treat people," he said.
"In Singapore, it's a democratic country, clean, but you can feel there are
certain rights you don't have right away. In the United States, even though
you're just an immigrant or have a working visa, you have good rights and good
opportunities. I think that alone is such a huge thing. You're more like an
equal."

Carlos Castellanos, a Pleasant Hill resident who immigrated from Nicaragua in
2006, and Oakland's Dohee Lee, a 2002 immigrant from South Korea, also took the
oath of citizenship this week. Like Crisostomo, they have high regard for the
American dream.

"It's because I'm coming from a Third World country." said Castellanos, 25, a
supervisor for Merry Maids. "People here think everything in America is really
bad, the government doesn't act to help the people. Even with people struggling
with the recession, it's easier for us to get a better life for our families.
The American dream is for whoever wants to pursue it. We know it's going to be
hard work, but like any other thing, hard work is going to get you what you
want."

Lee, a performance artist, has performed in San Francisco, Chicago and New York
City's Carnegie Hall.

"I really wanted to do this art, keep growing and growing, seeing more variety
of art form," she said. "That's why I came, actually. In the Bay Area, there's
so many cultures and so much art. That was like, to me, fulfilling."

Wednesday's ceremony began at 10 a.m. At 8:25, two lines of applicants extended
in opposite directions from in front of the theater, wrapping around the corner
onto 20th Street to the south, and 21st Street to the north.

The atmosphere was festive. Entrepreneurs hawked mementos to the soon-to-be-U.S.
citizens -- leis, certificates of naturalization, passport covers. Two cardboard
cutouts of President Obama provided photo opportunities. Volunteers urged those
in line to register to vote.

"If you don't vote," read a sign affixed to a street lamp, "you can't complain."

George Woyames stood there, drinking in the scene. An immigrant from Brazil in
1969, Woyames was naturalized in 1975. For him, the American dream resonates the
same as it did four decades ago.

"I wanted a place where I could be free," he said. "At that time, Brazil was a
dictatorship, and was horrible. By the grace of God, I had people who helped me
to come here. I became a teacher and a social worker."

Now retired, he helps shepherd immigrants through the naturalization process.

"For me, the greatest joy was to say 'we'," he said. "It's 'our' country. It's
'our' ways. It's 'our' laws. You can't believe the joy. There's no place I'd
rather say 'us' than here."

The ceremony, dignified by the Paramount's dramatic high ceilings, murals and
art deco decor, lasted less than an hour. First came a roll call of the 102
birth countries of the assembled applicants. Then came the oath. KQED radio's
Rachel Myrow gave the keynote speech.

Then the new citizens exited the theater in a merry rush, certificates of
citizenship in hand.

Before the ceremony, Castellanos reflected on what he might be doing if he
hadn't come to the United States.

"I would probably have been working at something other than my career," he said.
"I graduated (from the Universidad Politecnica de Nicaragua) as a computer
systems engineer. A lot of people who graduated at the same time aren't
working."

After the ceremony, he revealed he already had begun exercising his new rights
as an American citizen, having joined the Army.

"I'm looking to get an education better than what I have now," he said, "and the
Army can help with that. But I also want to be supportive of my new country."

Lee said she was "really nervous" before the ceremony, and "felt great"
afterward.

Crisostomo planned to celebrate with his wife over lunch.

"We're going to an Italian restaurant," he said. Then he laughed. "Maybe we
should do American."

Contact Gary Peterson at 925-952-5053. Follow him on Twitter at
twitter.com/garyscribe .

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Krissy Pamatmat and her mother, Alicia Pamatmat, originally from the
Philipines now living in San Franicsco, pose for a photo in front of the
American Flag in the lobby of the Paramount Theater in Oakland, Calif. after the
naturalization ceremony where both Pamatmats became U.S. citizens on Wednesday,
Dec. 14, 2011. Patrick Wachira holds the flag for them after attending the
ceremony where his mother became a U.S. citizen. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Vannak Loch, originally from Cambodia now living in Oakland, poses with a
cut-out of President Obama outside the Paramount Theater in Oakland, Calif.
where he was sworn in as a new U.S. citizen during a naturalization ceremony on
Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Dohee Lee celebrates her newly acquired U.S. citizenship after the
naturalization ceremony at the Paramount Theater in Oakland, Calif. on
Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
George Crisostomo from Walnut Creek celebrates his newly acquired U.S.
citizenship after the naturalization ceremony held at the Paramount Theater in
Oakland, Calif. on Wednesday, Dec. 14, 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Carlos Castellanos celebrates his newly acquired citizenship after the
naturalization ceremony at the Paramount Theater in Oakland, Calif. on
Wednesday, Dec, 14, 2011. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday

Push to redefine green card rules rooted in Bay Area

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1307 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (PUBL. 12/20/2011, PG. 2A)
A Sunday story about changing the rules for immigrants seeking permanent
residence in the United States incompletely described UC Davis Professor Norman
Matloff's goals. In addition to advocating an overhaul of the H-1B temporary
visa program, Matloff wants to change the employment-based green card system.

Who in the world gets to be an American?

Family connections and job credentials permit hundreds of thousands of
foreigners to legally immigrate to the United States each year. But for others
from India, China, Mexico and the Philippines, their place of birth makes it
harder for them to get a green card because of long-standing U.S. restrictions.

Anand Sundaram, hurt by the rules, didn't think they were fair. So the
36-year-old San Jose tech worker boarded a plane, flew to Washington, D.C., and
began knocking on doors inside the U.S. Capitol.

Sundaram is not a professional lobbyist. He can't even vote. But in a feat that
has stunned more jaded political observers, he and other Indian immigrants with
little electoral power have helped bring a divided, hyperpartisan Congress to
the brink of a rare accord.

Indian immigrants must wait years longer for employment-based visas than other
immigrants with similar credentials because of decades-old limits on how many
people can settle in the United States from any one country each year. A bill
working through Congress would eliminate the nationality-based ceilings,
reducing the long lines for people from countries with the highest demand for
green cards.

"It's a modern version of 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,' " said Aman Kapoor,
one of the founders of Santa Clara-based Immigration Voice.

The group that began as an online network of frustrated Indian guest workers in
the Silicon Valley has transformed into a persistent lobbying force of thousands
who write emails, call and visit politicians, tweet their cause and raise money.

All in hopes of making the long lines for "green cards," which allow permanent
residency in the United States, less dependent on what country a person is from.

"It's a question of fairness," Kapoor said.

Their appeals finally worked.

The House of Representatives voted 389-15 on Nov. 29 to approve the Fairness for
High-Skilled Immigrants Act, which could end some of the last vestiges of a
quota system that once regulated U.S. immigration based on country of origin.

The bipartisan bill, which still must pass the Senate, emerged quietly for a
policy that could fundamentally change the rules of the game for so many
aspiring immigrants. Immigration has been a politically toxic issue on which
Republicans and Democrats rarely find common ground, but the strongest voices
have been largely silent because the bill neither increases nor decreases
immigration, just rearranges who can come in.

Few opponents

"I'm neutral on this bill," said UC Davis professor Norman Matloff, a prominent
critic of high-skilled visa programs he believes harm U.S. software workers.

For many Indian and Chinese technology workers, getting permanent U.S. residency
means nearing the end of a process that begins with coming to the United States
on a provisional basis, either as a student or a guest worker hired by a company
on a temporary H-1B visa. It's the H-1B program that needs an overhaul, said
Matloff, who added he has "no strong opinions" on the green card bill.

The lack of strong opinions from those who usually have many has opened the
doors for the "Fairness" bill's proponents.

Its chief provision would eliminate a per-country cap that prevents nationals
from any one country from holding more than 7 percent of all employment-based
green cards. In a second provision, the ceiling for family-based immigration
would expand from 7 to 15 percent per country.

The national limits have made it harder for Indian and Chinese immigrants to get
permanent U.S. residency because their populous home countries are
"oversubscribed" in the work-based immigration backlog. The family limits have
caused similar problems for Mexicans and Filipinos who face the longest lines to
join family members in the United States. Some have been waiting 20 years or
more.

"The whole idea of the system is based on merit and need, the needs of the
American economy. Where you're born should have nothing to do with it," said
U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, a co-sponsor.

But under the current system, she said, "the number of visas for India, with a
population of 1.4 billion, is the same as Iceland, with a population of
350,000."

Fixing that problem should be simple enough, said Lofgren, who with other
supporters has downplayed the significance of the bill.

"It's better than current law but it's a very tiny thing," she said.

However, since the total pool of 140,000 work-based visas and 226,000 family
preference visas will not rise, a policy that levels the playing field for
Indians, Chinese, Mexicans and Filipinos will lengthen the backlog by months and
years for everyone else.

"My Brazilian clients, my clients from Israel, my European clients, they're
going to lose out," said San Jose immigration lawyer Indu Liladhar-Hathi. "The
ideal solution, of course, would have been to increase the numbers but that
would have had a lot of opposition."

Texas and Utah Republicans led the charge in passing the bill through the House,
but Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, has used a parliamentary maneuver to
indefinitely halt the bill in the Senate, stating it will do nothing to help
U.S. citizens looking for jobs.

Life on hold

Sundaram traveled to the Senate last week with other activists to make a case
for passage. He already won his own green card while fighting for the bill. His
5-year wait was longer than people from other countries with his work experience
and education might face, but shorter than many Indians he knows because he fits
into the "second-preference" skills category, a faster track that requires an
advance degree or extraordinary skills.

He also had a U.S. job he really liked, which is important for H-1B workers
because most cannot change jobs without permission as they await a chance for
permanent residency, he said.

"You spend your 20s doing the same thing. There's no professional growth," he
said.

Many also say they have refrained from buying a house or making other
investments that could go to waste if forced back to India. Some limit travel in
fear it will jeopardize their chances of staying.

"People have not been able to go home for years, not been able to go to their
parent's funeral," he said.

Sundaram said he and other immigrants pushing for change are motivated by a
shared frustration at the system, but also a shared admiration for what's
possible in this country.

"Obviously they are trying to help themselves, but by helping themselves they're
helping the future generations and helping America by keeping it competitive,"
Sundaram said of Immigration Voice's army of volunteer lobbyists. "The political
process allows the guy on the street to come to the Capitol to do this. Is it
perfect? No. But it's still the best in the world. We get kicked, dust off, go
back doing the same thing again. We've been doing this for six years now."


     ·    Eliminate the 7 percent per-country cap on employment-based green
          cards. A "green card" allows permanent legal residency in the United
          States. The annual quota for work-based immigration would remain the
          same, at about 140,000, but backlogs from countries that always hit
          the cap -- namely, India and China -- would drop as wait times rise
          for other immigrants. Increase the per-country cap on family-based
          immigration to 15 percent from 7 percent. The annual quota for
          immigrant family members of U.S. residents would remain the same, but
          the long backlogs for countries that always hit the cap -- namely,
          Mexico and the Philippines -- would be reduced.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anand Sundaram, left, and Pratik Dakwala pose for a portrait in San
Jose, California on Friday, December 9, 2011. The pair worked on the passage of
Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act in the U.S. House of Representatives.
The Bill now heads for the Senate. (Photo by Jim Gensheimer/Mercury News)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday

Oakland eyes pay-to-play visa program for ballpark, new Coliseum

BYLINE: By Angela Woodall Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 928 words


Plans for a new A's ballpark in Oakland seemed to burst like a balloon when the
California Supreme Court cleared the way for state lawmakers to seize
redevelopment money.

But city leaders are eyeing a pay-to-play immigrant visa program to help finance
the project now that the redevelopment funds they needed for the Victory Court
ballpark may be out of reach.

Oakland is looking at finding the needed capital through a program that partners
foreign investors willing to pay for a green card with credit-starved developers
and cash-strapped municipalities.

Called EB-5, the program marks the first time that foreign investors can buy
their way to a U.S. green card.

The program earned the nickname "million dollar visa" because a potential
immigrant can get a green card for himself, his spouse and their children under
the age of 21 by investing at least $1 million in a project that produces at
least 10 full-time jobs. In areas where unemployment is high, the investor can
buy in for a minimum of $500,000.

The $8 million Tribune Tower deal completed in December was financed with EB-5
money.

And Mayor Jean Quan has been wooing Chinese investors to put their money behind
the Victory Court ballpark and Coliseum City project, which includes hotels, a
convention center, shops and new facilities for the Raiders and Warriors, as
well as a ballpark alternative. Those projects are too vast to be paid for with
only foreign capital, Quan said, but the city is looking at EB-5 visa money as a
significant funding source.

Chinese investors, she said, "are very interested in EB-5 and always want to
know what things are possible."

The strategy has actually been around since 1990 but wasn't an attractive
proposal until the government revamped the program about a decade ago. EB-5
financing has paid for numerous developments across the country and attracted
Bay Area names like former San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown and the developer of
Jack London Square, Jim Falaschi.

"It's quite the rage within the development community," said immigration
attorney H. Ronald Klasko, who has specialized in EB-5 deals since 1991.

The U.S. Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services approved a record number
of EB-5 applications last year -- 1,403. The agency received 3,858 applications,
also an all-time high.

"There seems to be an unending supply of investors," Klasko said.

"If you want to live, work or retire anywhere in the U.S.A. and can afford to
invest $500,000 for a minimum of five years, the EB-5 visa is an option worth
considering," according to the Bay Area Regional Center, one of 211 centers in
the country where business people work to help foreign investors navigate the
federal bureaucracy to do business in the United States. Investors mainly have
been from China and Venezuela, though the program is attracting interest in
Indian and Russia.

Brown is a member of the San Francisco Bay Area Regional Center. Other centers
are located throughout the Bay Area, from Alamo to Union City. Although
certified by the federal government, the centers usually are private ventures
that operate separate from city governments.

Fremont and Union City officials said no EB-5 deals area pending in their cities
even though their territory is covered by multiple regional centers. San Jose
came close to an EB-5 deal, officials there said, but it didn't work out.

Nearly all EB-5 deals are done through regional centers, Klasko said.

The arrangement offers a layer of opacity for the foreign investors behind
complex networks of partnerships.

For example, the Tribune Tower appears to have involved the San Francisco
Regional Center, according to real estate records that list Thomas Henderson, a
Bay Area businessman who founded Avalon Bay Foods Inc., as the managing member.
He is also part of CallSocket Holding Co. LLC, the tower's new owner, and
China-U.S. Venture LLC.

But no foreign investors are listed in any of the real estate documents, and
CallSocket's headquarters (shared with China-U.S. Venture LLC) is an office in
Oakland's produce district. No one answered the phone numbers listed.

In Union City, the New World Regional Center shares an address with a company
that makes disposable gloves, Shen Wei USA, as well as other companies with ties
to China.

Regional centers also let EB-5 projects bend the job creation rule by counting
indirect employment in the total of 10 full-time positions. The jobs are open to
anyone with permission to work in the United States.

The program turns the traditional path to citizenship on its head. But
supporters see it as a win-win.

It's not as simple as buying a green card, said Michael Hastings, who launched
the Bay Area Regional Center, which covers cities from Santa Clara County to
Sacramento and includes the East Bay. Hastings is a private tech sector investor
and a former executive with KPMG, a network of firms providing audit, tax and
advisory services. Falaschi, of Jack London Square Investors, and Brendan Heafey
are also partners.

Hastings said he and his Regional Center partners are still looking for a
project 2½ years after they began operating in July 2009.

"It's not the easiest thing," Hastings said. It's also not without risk.

After two years, if the investors can deliver on their job-creation promises,
they stand to make a profit and become permanent citizens , along with their
families.

If the jobs don't materialize within two years, they don't get the green cards.

And they don't get their money back if the project fails.

Staff writers Matt Artz, Rob Dennis and Tracy Seipel contributed to this story.

Infobox1

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 27, 2012 Friday

California's Catholic hierarchy takes stand against illegal-immigration dragnet

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1092 words


The Bay Area's biggest religious institution, the Catholic Church, is throwing
its weight against a federal immigration dragnet that in the past two years
deported more than 6,500 people from the region.

As Republican presidential contenders clash in the days leading up to the
crucial Florida primary over the harshness or softness of their stands on
illegal immigration, Catholic priests here and across the country are
championing a humanitarian approach and condemning what they describe as
"selfish" demagoguery.

"It is heartbreaking to hear the painful stories of unjust deportations pouring
in from our congregations. California can do better," San Francisco Archbishop
George Niederauer said in a statement ahead of a Saturday gathering of
immigrants and their supporters at St. Mary's Cathedral in San Francisco.

Both pastors and politicians have reason to appeal to a growing Latino and
immigrant constituency.

An estimated 24 percent of Americans, including GOP candidates Newt Gingrich and
Rick Santorum, say they are practicing Catholics. Adherents vary greatly in
their political and social views, but recent polls show that Catholics have a
more favorable view of immigrants than most Americans.

Fifty-five percent of Catholics believe today's immigrants strengthen the
country more than they create a burden, compared with 45 percent of all
Americans and 37 percent of Protestant Christians, according to a recent survey
by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life. But Catholics are also divided
within their own community: Only 40 percent of white Catholics say that
immigrants strengthen the country.

The church leadership, however, is increasingly taking a public stand on the
side of immigrants, regardless of how they got here.

In the latest pronouncement, Niederauer this weekend will join a movement
challenging Gov. Jerry Brown -- a former Jesuit seminarian -- and Attorney
General Kamala Harris to amend or back out of the state's Secure Communities
partnership with the federal government. Immigration agents are now alerted
through the program's electronic database whenever police arrest a deportable
immigrant.

Brown and Harris were not able to be reached for comment Friday about the
church's criticism. But in the past, both have defended Secure Communities as a
useful tool in deporting criminals.

Santa Clara and San Francisco counties have resisted participation in the
program, but have repeatedly been told by federal officials they had no choice.

In October, Santa Clara County supervisors thumbed their noses at the feds and
started freeing illegal immigrants with a history of serious and violent crimes.
But immigrant agents later arrested them after their release from the county
jail.

Other counties have embraced the network. More than 60,000 people have been
deported from California through the program since San Diego County became the
first to join in 2009.

The California Immigrant Policy Center, an advocacy group for immigrants, says
that about 70 percent of deportees had either "no convictions or had been
apprehended as a result of routine traffic or permit offenses." U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement counters that many of those who are not criminals are
people who repeatedly broke immigration laws, often by re-entering the country
after being deported

Separating so many people from their U.S. families defies Christian teachings
about human dignity, many Bay Area priests say.

"We've been hearing more and more stories in our parishes, especially within the
Hispanic population," said Bishop William Justice, Niederauer's assistant. "The
children all of a sudden don't have a parent around. It's really not supporting
the unity of the family, the sacredness of the family."

Catholic priests have accompanied families to deportation proceedings, Justice
said, and priests hear stories about immigration problems in informal chats
after weekend services.

Latino and Asian immigrant congregations account for a large and growing
percentage of the membership in the five Bay Area Catholic dioceses,
headquartered in San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose, Santa Rosa and Stockton.

Immigration-control activist Ira Mehlman believes the church's steady advocacy
"to promote amnesty" reflects its own worries about connecting to a membership
that would be declining were it not for immigration from Latin America.

"It helps replenish members of the congregations around the country," said
Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "The
Catholic Church sees this as a way of keeping the pews full."

Religious appeals on behalf of the downtrodden may be sincere, he said, but the
economic consequences of illegal immigration hurt legal U.S. residents.

"One of the things they consistently forget is you can't be charitable with
someone else's resources," Mehlman said.

High-ranking clergy around the country are comparing today's divisive debate to
the discrimination Catholic immigrants suffered in previous generations.

"I worry that in the political debates over immigration we are entering into a
new period of nativism," Los Angeles Archbishop Jose Gomez said in a speech last
year in the Napa Valley. In December, the Mexican-born priest and 32 other
Latino bishops wrote a lengthy letter to immigrants on the issue. The letter
criticized federal and state policies, telling immigrants that "in your
suffering faces we see the true face of Jesus Christ."

The socially conservative Niederauer will be appearing with an unusual ally,
liberal Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, at the Saturday church
gathering.

Ammiano is reintroducing a bill -- placed on hold last year -- that would revise
the state's Secure Communities agreement to allow local governments to opt out.
The Bay Area's Catholic hierarchy is backing Ammiano and more general efforts to
halt deportations that split families.

"The governor and attorney general have power to help,'' Justice said. "We'd
love for them to do it."

Not all local Catholics are in line with the church's strong statements.
Republican and real estate broker Michael Forbes, who attends a church in
Burlingame, said "the observant Catholics are probably a lot more likely to have
a more humane perspective on this issue."

But he also wondered if church leaders were thinking through the ramifications
of their proposals.

"The church's traditional concern with maintaining families, protecting families
and protecting the poor and the needy is well-known, but the law is the law and
we expect our civic authorities to enforce the law," Forbes said.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George H. Niederauer at the 2005 news conference in which he was
introduced as the eighth Archbishop of San Francisco.(AP Photo/Eric Risberg)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 3, 2012 Friday

Support grows to help East Bay immigrant get kidney transplant

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 653 words


An effort to save the life of an Oakland father who was denied an organ
transplant because of his immigration status has gained a legion of supporters
across the country.

Jesus Navarro now has a website, an online petition with thousands of
supporters, several lawyers and a laundry list of groups organizing on his
behalf.

The soft-spoken 35-year-old has a willing donor in his wife and private
insurance to pay for a kidney transplant. But UC San Francisco Medical Center
refuses to perform the operation because administrators can't be sure he will be
able to afford follow-up care given his status as an illegal immigrant.

Support has poured in for Navarro since this newspaper published his story
Tuesday, and his allies are trying to set up a meeting with the UC
administrators who turned him down.

"I've spent maybe 10 percent of my time doing my job in the past few days," said
Donald Kagan, a partner in a Berkeley technology firm who has become Navarro's
chief advocate.

Kagan received a kidney transplant himself at UCSF in 2010. His donor was a
Nicaraguan immigrant who came to this country illegally and later gained
citizenship.

"I really know the process because I've lived it," said Kagan, who notes that he
was never asked about his immigration status.

On Thursday,Change.org posted a petition asking UC administrators and
California's U.S. senators to help save Navarro's life. The national website is
best known for pressuring Bank of America to drop its debit-card fee plan.

A day later, nearly 3,000 people had signed on and left messages of support for
the family.

UC medical students are also trying to arrange a meeting with administrators.

"As a medical student, I'm committed to human rights and health care for all of
my patients, regardless of immigration status," said first-year medical student
Josh Connor.

State lawmakers and Oakland Councilman Ignacio De La Fuente have also joined the
cause.

Several physician organizations, including the California Nurses Association,
have signed a separate letter demanding that UC perform the transplant
immediately.

Professors from universities such as Stanford, UC Davis and UCSF have also
endorsed the letter.

The signatories demand that UCSF pay for Navarro's post-surgery care if
necessary.

"Your actions have inexcusably delayed his treatment," the letter states.

Navarro waited on a kidney transplant list for years. When he moved to the top
of the list this year, administrators discovered his illegal status and refused
to perform the transplant. His wife was found to be a match, but administrators
still declined, fearing that he might not be able to pay for the follow-up care
he would need for the rest of his life.

In January, Navarro was caught in an immigration audit and lost his job of 14
years at Berkeley's Pacific Steel. But his supporters say they have arranged to
have him keep his private insurance.

At a meeting in Kagan's Berkeley conference room Friday evening, representatives
from organizations such as the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and the Bay
Area's Interfaith Coalition met to talk strategy.

Navarro sat in a baseball cap holding his 3-year-old daughter and occasionally
chiming in as the conversation moved in and out of Spanish.

Afterward, he explained why it had never occurred to him to reach out for help.

"I thought no one would want to pay attention to me," he said. "I figured they
would tell me to go away."

Navarro's supporters expect to hear back from UCSF administrators Monday about a
meeting time. They are hoping the clinic reverses its decision.

But Navarro's insurance will also cover the operation if he has it at UC Davis,
and a transplant physician in Ohio has taken up the case.

Contact Hannah Dreier at 510-262-2787. Follow her atTwitter.com/hannahdreier .

HOW TO HELP

Sign the online petition: www.chn.ge/z8eGS2
Visit Navarro's website:www.transplant4jesus.com
Reach out to the family:help@transplant4jesus.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

National worker ID card a bad idea, says UC Berkeley study

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 490 words


The plan to finally stop illegal immigration is simple enough, according to some
lawmakers -- create an identity for all legal American workers using
fingerprints or vein scans.

Don't do it, says a first-of-its-kind study being released Thursday by UC
Berkeley Law School's Warren Institute on Law and Social Policy.

Requiring all workers to get a biometric card to verify their right to work
would cost the United States at least $45 billion, infringe upon civil
liberties, hurt the poor and fail to stop illegal employment, according to the
report.

"This would be a radical shift in our employment system," said Aarti Kohli, the
institute's director.

Kohli said the biometric worker card carrying unique physical markers is "an
idea that's come up again and again from different political leaders, and it
keeps coming up."

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., is among numerous lawmakers from both
parties who have endorsed a biometric ID card. Among the latest politicians to
talk up biometrics are GOP presidential contenders Mitt Romney and Newt
Gingrich.

Both candidates touted biometric worker cards as a solution to illegal
immigration, though Gingrich has said only foreign workers would have to get
one.

None of the legislative proposals has gone far enough to trigger a cost analysis
by congressional researchers. The Warren Institute is one of the first to try to
quantify the most recent plan: the proposed "Believe" legislation that stands
for Biometric Enrollment, Locally-stored Information and Electronic Verification
of Employment. Drafted by Democrats in 2010 as part of broader immigration
reform legislation, it proposed "fraud-resistant, tamper-resistant,
wear-resistant and machine-readable" work cards issued by the Social Security
Administration.

To estimate that plan's cost at $45 billion is a "pretty conservative"
calculation that includes expected costs to government and employers, says
Warren study co-author Jonathan Weinberg, a professor at Wayne State University
in Detroit.

Along with costs, Weinberg's biggest concern is the societal impact and privacy.

"It's inherently dangerous and problematic to give government that kind of lever
over people, that with just a (computer) switch, you're not allowed to work for
a living," Weinberg said.

Such concerns may be overblown, according to immigration control activists who
point out that the government and private companies already collect volumes of
personal information.

, but argue that it would be useful to have it stored in a central database.

"The only information accessible by an employer should be whether the
prospective hire is eligible for employment," says Virginia-based Human Resource
Initiative for a Legal Workforce on its website. "Employers want certainty in
their workforce."

Biometric ID cards for all?
The Warren Institute's report on the costs of implementing a worker ID card in
the United States can be read at http://www.law.berkeley.edu/ewi.htm .

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Medical center commits to giving Oakland father a kidney transplant

BYLINE: By Hannah Dreier Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 760 words


UC San Francisco Medical Center said Thursday that it is committed to providing
an illegal immigrant from Oakland the kidney transplant he needs to live. The
announcement followed the nationwide response to a story in this newspaper last
week about the man's plight.

Jesus Navarro, a 35-year-old father, became the focus of a national "Save Jesus"
campaign after it was reported that he might not receive the transplant because
of his immigration status.

Navarro had been waiting for a kidney transplant for more than six years. He had
private insurance to pay for the operation, and was nearing the top of the
waiting list at UCSF.

But Navarro says administrators at UCSF, after learning about his immigration
status in May, told him that the medical center could not provide the transplant
because of uncertainty about whether he could afford follow-up care, including
costly anti-rejection medications. His wife said she offered to donate her own
kidney.

In its first public statement about its handling of Navarro's case, the medical
center said Thursday that concerns about follow-up care have been addressed and
there had been a miscommunication between administrators and Navarro over his
eligibility for a transplant.

The announcement was met with joy from Navarro and his supporters. "I am very
happy I will receive a transplant and be able to play with my daughter again,"
he said on his website.

The medical center said that it never decided to deny Navarro a transplant.
Rather, his status on the waiting list had changed to "inactive" because of
concerns that his immigration status might prevent him from receiving the needed
care and medication after the transplant.

The change to inactive status meant Navarro "would not receive a transplant even
if he reached the top (of the list) unless he had a reasonable coverage plan in
place," according to the joint statement issued by UCSF on behalf of Navarro and
the medical center's chief medical officer.

"Mr. Navarro has told UCSF that, to him, this meant he could not get a
transplant until he resolved his immigration status; this was not what UCSF was
trying to convey," the statement read.

The statement went on to say, "UCSF regrets the misunderstanding and is
committed to reviewing its processes to make sure that communication is
consistent and clear with all patients, including Mr. Navarro."

UCSF also said it referred Navarro to two community-assistance organizations
that specialize in immigration issues.

While Navarro's waitlist status remains "inactive," a medical center spokeswoman
said the center expects all remaining issues to be resolved in coming months.
Navarro, who has a 3-year-old daughter, is high on the waiting list and could
reach the top in three to six months, UCSF said. The donor would not be his
wife.

UCSF's kidney transplant center is one of the largest in the world, and the
medical center says it has performed more transplants than any other clinic in
the country.

UCSF said in the statement it does not discriminate on the basis of immigration
status.

Last week, Navarro's allies set up a website and Facebook page, established a
Twitter hashtag and launched an online petition targeting the hospital,
garnering 140,000 signatures from around the country.

Navarro, who is on dialysis, and an advocate met with UCSF administrators this
week.

"They feel comfortable that we've come up with a good plan for aftercare," said
Donald Kagan, a partner in a Berkeley technology firm who has become Navarro's
chief advocate. He did not detail the plan.

Kagan received a kidney transplant himself at UCSF in 2010, and said he was
never asked about his legal status.

His donor was a Nicaraguan immigrant who came to this country illegally and
later gained citizenship.

Navarro said he did not seek out help from nonprofit organizations like the ones
advocating for him now because he assumed that people would not care about his
situation.

In January, Navarro was caught in an immigration audit and lost his job of 14
years at Berkeley's Pacific Steel. His supporters have arranged to have him keep
his private insurance for at least 18 months.

Cesar Navarro, who moved to San Pablo from Minnesota to help his older brother
when he fell ill seven years ago, described the national campaign as a
"godsend."

Going forward, UCSF will ask all transplant candidates about their immigration
status and help patients who are undocumented find a way to guarantee aftercare,
spokeswoman Amy Pyle said.

"It's a wake-up call for us to find out that people aren't always following
through," Pyle said.

---

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

San Francisco Giants prospect Angel Villalona has work visa approved

BYLINE: By Andrew Baggarly abaggarly@mercurynews.com

SECTION: SPORTS; Breaking; Baseball; Giants; News

LENGTH: 380 words


Former top prospect Angel Villalona, whose career looked to be over after a 2009
murder charge in the Dominican Republic, had his work visa approved by the U.S.
Immigration Service, and the Giants expect him to be at Scottsdale Stadium when
position players report Feb. 23.

The Giants have "received the appropriate approval notices" from the U.S.
Immigration Service, club vice president Bobby Evans said.

Villalona, 21, has not stepped foot in the U.S. since September 2009, when he
was arrested and charged in a barroom shooting that left 25-year-old Mario Felix
de Jesus Velete dead in La Romana.

At the time, Villalona was on family leave from Single-A San Jose while
rehabbing a quadriceps strain. After nearly two years of incarceration or house
arrest, all charges against the slugging prospect were dropped. According to
reports in the Dominican, Villalona also settled with the victim's family to
prevent a civil suit.

Major League Baseball removed Villalona from its restricted list late last year,
and the Giants added him to their 40-man roster to prevent another club from
plucking him away in the Rule 5 draft. All players on the 40-man roster receive
automatic invitations to big league camp in the spring.

Villalona already has a flight booked to the U.S., Evans said. But the club
hasn't yet received confirmation that Villalona has gone through the final step
in the process to take possession of the visa. That process involves a
face-to-face interview, an identity check and proof of travel documents.

"We're nearly to the end of the process," Evans said. "We participate and assist
in that process, but we don't control it. Our expectation is that he will report
on time."

Villalona was just 16 when the Giants signed him for a $2.1 million bonus, which
smashed the franchise record for an international free agent. He's considered a
premier, power-hitting first baseman and has been working out at the Giants'
complex in the Dominican. According to scouting reports, he still has plenty of
the bat speed that made him a standout talent as a teenager.

Villalona is not a candidate to make the Giants' opening-day roster, but there's
a good chance he will be assigned to Single-A San Jose at some point this
season.

Contact Andrew Baggarly at abaggarly@mercurynews.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angel Villalona takes batting practice during the San Francisco Giants
Minor League Mini Camp in Scottsdale, Ariz. on Monday February 25, 2008. (Nader
Khouri/Contra Costa Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

Legal help for immigrants comes to East Contra Costa

BYLINE: By Paul Burgarino Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 906 words


Arturo Sanchez is earning his U.S. citizenship -- the hard way.

Sanchez, 28, was shot in his left clavicle by his wife's ex-husband while
driving to work from his Antioch home on Lone Tree Way early one morning in
2007.

Years later, the undocumented Mexican immigrant sought the help of a nonprofit
organization that provides inexpensive legal assistance to immigrants trying to
obtain citizenship. Sanchez became eligible for a U visa because he was the
victim of a crime and helped police make an arrest.

The International Institute of the Bay Area opened its doors in Antioch late
last year in hopes of helping the growing number of immigrants, particularly
Latinos, settling in the East Bay suburbs. The Antioch location is the first new
one since 1974 for the 94-year-old organization, which also has offices in
Oakland, San Francisco and Redwood City.

The surging Latino population in Concord and East Contra Costa County triggered
the nonprofit group's expansion, said Sebastian Zavala, a program director with
the organization.

According to the U.S. Census Bureau's recent American Community Survey data,
almost 13,000 immigrants are eligible to become citizens in Pittsburg, Antioch,
Oakley and Brentwood. About 53,000 people in those four cities were born in
another country, according to the data.

By comparison, Oakland has about 24,800 people eligible to become citizens and
112,102 residents born in another country. However, it has 150,000 more people
living in the city than the four East Contra Costa cities combined.

"The population out here (in East Contra Costa) is definitely underserved,"
Zavala said.

Five groups offer discounted legal services for immigrants in Oakland and dozens
do so in San Francisco, but there are none in the East Contra Costa region,
according to Zavala. Catholic Charities used to have a satellite office in
Brentwood, staff attorney Juan Ortiz said.

Since opening in October, the institute has seen a steady stream of two to three
clients each day seeking help to obtain citizenship, Zavala said.

The majority of the cases involve U visas, he said. Under the program, if a
person stays in the country for three consecutive years after obtaining the
visa, they can apply for permanent citizenship.

Sanchez heard about the institute on a Spanish television station, and after
learning he could be eligible for citizenship through a U visa, he contacted the
group and was put in touch with Ortiz.

"It was almost too good to be true," said Sanchez, who came to the United States
from Mexico in 2004 for work and to support his family. "It's like this old
saying 'After bad things, some good things come.' "

Ortiz and other legal staff have helped Sanchez, a local golf course maintenance
worker, gather a certified report from Antioch police about the shooting, his
medical report and other pertinent documents.

The bullet is still lodged in Sanchez's neck area; doctors told him his truck
window was likely the only thing that saved him. A counselor is helping him deal
with painful flashbacks about the incident, he said.

The institute is still processing his case, which should take about six to eight
months for verification, Ortiz said.

Sanchez hopes to become a full-time citizen, allowing him to bring his
12-year-old stepson back to the United States from Mexico.

"It's a good way to reunite our family. His mother is waiting for him," he said.

Other cases handled by the agency thus far include permanent residents
petitioning for their immigrant spouses and other family issues. The firm also
handles naturalization cases and visa applications for battered women and for
children.

It does not handle asylum or deportation cases but refers people to attorneys
who can.

Like many immigrants, Jose Carlos, of Brentwood, was unaware of the discounted
services from groups such as International Institute that could help him.

"There are a lot of people in this area that just don't have the knowledge or
money to get this kind of help," said Carlos, 37.

Carlos plans to earn his U.S. citizenship next month. The construction foreman
came to the United States in 1990 at age 15 from Mexico for better
opportunities.

Carlos obtained a green card when marrying his now ex-wife in 2003. Rather than
renew the card next year, he wants to enjoy the complete privileges of
citizenship such as being able to vote.

"It makes you feel like a good citizen," Carlos said.

Much of the group's attention to the region stems from programs in Oakley to
embrace immigrants, Zavala said. Oakland-based nonprofit organization La Clinica
opened up a storefront facility for residents with little or no insurance to
receive basic medical care.

Oakley also launched a program last year that makes immigrants feel more welcome
in the city and willing to participate in civic events.

The legal group was looking to locate in Oakley initially but couldn't find
space, Zavala said. Opting to set up shop in Antioch is beneficial because it is
in a more central location for the clients it hopes to serve, and the offices on
Lone Tree Way are not far from a planned BART station, he said.

"Hopefully, we can look back 90 years from now and say we're still in Antioch,"
Zavala said.

Contact Paul Burgarino at 925-779-7164. Follow him at Twitter.com/paulburgarino
.

The International Institute of the Bay Area is at 3240 Lone Tree Way, Antioch.
For more information or help, call 925-237-8581. The organization is also online
at www.iibayarea.org .

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Immigration status shouldn't dictate who gets transplants

BYLINE: Bythomas d. elias

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 818 words


Let's make one thing clear: Even if Jesus Navarro doesn't get the kidney
transplant he was about to receive when doctors at the University of
California-San Francisco Medical Center discovered his undocumented immigration
status last month, his death probably is not imminent.

Insurance would continue covering dialysis treatments for him costing more than
$100,000 annually for at least several more years. With help from
blood-cleansing artificial kidney dialysis machines, patients average more than
an eight-year survival rate, but with the equivalent of barely 15 percent of
normal kidney function. Only about one-fourth of those under 50, however, feel
well enough to work full-time.

So some protests that have cast the debate over Navarro's celebrated case in
terms of immediate life and death have been slightly off the mark. The real
issues are fairness, morality, finances and the Hippocratic Oath sworn by all
physicians. For 35-year-old Navarro, a Mexican native who has lived in this
country 16 years and worked for a Berkeley steel foundry the past 14 years, the
question always was whether he will have to continue feeling only marginally
healthy and being tethered regularly to a machine or can regain his health and
freedom of movement.

The transplant Navarro could get would cost his insurance company somewhat less
than one year of dialysis. After getting it, he would go an indefinite, but
probably long, period of needing immunosuppressant drugs to keep his new kidney
functioning. Until recently, the drugs presented huge financial obstacles for
the poor or the uninsured, but key formulations like cyclosporine, tacrolimus,
mycophenolate mophetin and prednisone all are now available as generics at much
reduced costs.

(Full disclosure: I received a kidney transplant from a live donor in 1997,
after undergoing dialysis for a substantial time.)

That means much of the objection initially presented by UCSF financial officers
never held water. "UCSF's policy for financial clearance requires candidates to
present evidence of adequate and stable insurance coverage or other financial
sources necessary to sustain follow-up care long after transplant surgery," said
a statement from Reece Fawley, executive director of transplantation. UCSF has
since backtracked a bit, saying it will perform the transplant after all, once
it is certain Navarro's insurance will remain in effect afterward.

In checking the financial abilities of potential organ recipients, UCSF is like
all other transplant centers. But many individuals receive transplants with far
less assured insurance coverage than what's available to Navarro -- at least 18
months of eligibility for Cobra coverage from the health insurance he held for
the 14 years before an immigration check cost him his job. He currently pays
$1,100 a month for that coverage.

"Even if his insurance ran out, he's covered by the union for 18 months,"
Oakland City Council President Ignacio De La Fuente, who also is international
vice president of the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics, and Allied Workers
International Union, told a reporter. "He has a willing donor (his
also-undocumented wife), he has private health care. This has been ridiculous."

In fact, many transplant recipients have far less certainty of health coverage
than Navarro, whose insurance could continue even if he were deported.

So a transplant would be good for Navarro, regardless of where he might live,
and would save his insurance carrier hundreds of thousands of dollars. It also
would not "rob" any U.S. citizen of a donated organ, thus mollifying most
anti-illegal immigrant activists.

Then there's the issue of fairness. In conversations with hundreds of transplant
recipients of many ethnicities, none have reported any queries about immigration
status. Why, then, should it ever have been an issue for Navarro? And there's
the fact that while illegal immigrants nationally donate about 2.5 percent of
all transplanted organs each year, they receive fewer than 1 percent of all
transplants. Given that inequity, simple fairness dictates that doctors should
perform the needed twin surgeries on Navarro and his wife, a well-matched donor.

There's also the Hippocratic Oath taken by all doctors, which says, "I will
prevent disease whenever I can..." That oath implies a willingness to help all
comers, regardless of background or life circumstance. It's one reason doctors
give emergency treatment to murderers and rapists when needed. It's why convicts
have received organ transplants. And it's one reason Yemeni President Ali
Abdullah Saleh was allowed into this country last month for urgent medical care
even though many of his countrymen hold him responsible for thousands of
killings. How moral would it be to deny Navarro care while giving it to violent
criminals?

Thomas D. Elias is a syndicated columnist who writes about state issues. Email
him at tdelias@aol.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Fired workers march on Berkeley steel plant

BYLINE: By Doug Oakley Berkeley Voice

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 352 words


Along with their supporters, about 200 former Pacific Steel workers who recently
lost their jobs after an immigration audit marched from downtown Berkeley on
Friday morning to the steel plant in a peaceful protest of immigration laws.

Midmorning traffic was blocked for about an hour on two of Berkeley's major
thoroughfares, University Avenue and San Pablo Avenue, as the group made its way
to the plant. No arrests were made, according to Berkeley police.

Fourteen-year-old Metzli Blanco, whose father lost his job of 12 years at the
plant, took a microphone down the street from the Second Street plant and summed
up what many in the crowd said with their signs and songs.

"We live in a country founded on the blood, sweat and tears of people from other
places," Blanco said. "We just want to work, pay our taxes and contribute to the
community."

In February 2011, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security demanded copies of
forms of 600 employees to verify their residency status. In October, the company
was forced to start firing 200 employees.

"The company had no choice," said Ignacio De La Fuente, vice president of the
union that represents the steel workers and an Oakland City Councilman. "The
workers did whatever they had to do to get a job, but that's not the point."

De La Fuente said the Obama administration was conducting similar raids around
the country because "it's a presidential election year."

A statement from Pacific Steel Casting released Thursday said "we strenuously
object to criticism the company was in any way complicit with the audit. These
terminations were not only devastating to the workers and their families, but
also the (remaining) workforce at PSC."

Jesus Cervantes, 32, of San Pablo, who worked at the steel plant for 5½ years,
was fired after the audit. An undocumented resident, Cervantes said he made
about $38,000 a year. He has three children, and his wife works for McDonalds.

"Life is getting tough now without a job," he said in Spanish, "and there's no
work to be found."

Doug Oakley covers Berkeley. Contact him at 510-843-1408. Follow him at
Twitter.com/douglasoakley .

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday

Author to sign copies of book on immigrant brides

BYLINE: By Rob Dennis The Argus

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 124 words


UNION CITY -- The author of a book about the problems faced by prospective
brides immigrating to the United States will sign copies Saturday at Raja Sweets
and Indian Cuisine.

Fremont immigration attorney Anu Peshawaria, author of "Lives on the Brink:
Bridging the Chasm between Two Great Nations, India and United States," advises
immigrants on preparing for marriage; the marriage and divorce rights of
noncitizens; and how to stay in the United States after a separation or divorce.

Attending the book-signing will be Nageshrao Parthasarathi, consul general of
India in San Francisco, and Anna Caballero, secretary of the California State
and Consumer Services Agency.

The event will be from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. at the restaurant, 31853 Alvarado Blvd.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Ruben Navarrette: Obama's record on immigration just as dismal as Romney's

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Jr Syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 758 words


SAN DIEGO -- Supporters of President Barack Obama are always so helpful in
suggesting topics to write about.

They think there is a great column in the fact that Mitt Romney -- in one of his
incarnations during the Republican presidential primary -- promised to veto the
DREAM Act if he's elected president. The bill, which would give undocumented
students legal status if they went to college or joined the military, has the
backing of more than 80 percent of Latinos, according to a recent poll by
Univision/ABC/Latino Decisions.

They also want to make sure that I caught that Romney has the backing of Kansas
Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the architect of many of the tough but
constitutionally suspect immigration laws popping up around the country. Kobach,
who boasts that he is heavily involved in the Romney campaign, recently
oversimplified the immigration debate at the Conservative Political Action
Conference when he said "to create a job for a U.S. citizen tomorrow, deport an
illegal alien today."

Finally, they want me to stress that Romney seems to think that the immigrants
of today are inferior to the ones who came to these shores a generation ago. In
his acceptance speech after winning the Nevada Republican caucuses, Romney
insisted that the immigrants of yesteryear did not come here "for a free ticket"
or the "pursuit of government benefits." The insulting inference: Today's
immigrants -- most of whom hail from Latin America -- do come for those reasons.

These are all good topics. Romney -- and to a lesser degree, his fellow
presidential hopefuls Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich -- have behaved
reprehensibly during the GOP primary, as they chase after the votes of an
anti-immigrant constituency that I'm not sure is as big a portion of their party
as they seem to think. I have criticized the Republicans before for their
handling of the issue, and I will do so again.

Yet, here is what bothers me: Obama supporters want me to keep Latinos focused
on how bad Romney is on immigration -- so that they forget how bad Obama is on
immigration. The president has broken promises to make reform a priority and
broken records in deporting more than 1.2 million illegal immigrants.

Obama has been good at one thing, though. Unfortunately for the administration,
it's something that many Latinos consider an unpardonable sin: separating
families.

Families like that of Felipe and Marie Montes, who now maintain separate
residences in North Carolina and Mexico -- but not by choice. According to
Colorlines.com , which has been following the story closely, after Felipe was
deported, Marie found it difficult to support their three children. So officials
with the Allegheny County child welfare department took the children from their
home, put them in foster care, and eventually convinced a judge to terminate the
mother's efforts to reunite with her kids. Now, rather than send the children to
live with their father in Mexico, those officials want to put the children up
for adoption. It's a parent's nightmare.

If there is a villain in this story, it seems to be the county officials.
However, it was the Obama administration -- and its failure to live up to a
stated policy by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to let parents who face
deportation decide what happens to their children -- that set this story in
motion. And many others like it.

Last year, a report by the Applied Research Center, which publishes
colorlines.com , found that, from January to June 2011, the Obama administration
deported more than 46,000 parents with U.S.-born children.

According to the ARC, which filed a request under the Freedom of Information Act
to obtain the statistics from the Department of Homeland Security, that figure
represents more than 22 percent of all people deported in the same time period.

Under Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush -- specifically, from 1998 to
2007, the most recent period for which similar statistics are available -- only
about 8 percent of those deported were the parents of U.S.-citizen children.

You can do all the polling and focus groups you want to determine the issues
that Latinos care about most. You will learn that the concerns include
education, the economy, jobs, health care and immigration. If you want to know
about Latinos' values and what they treasure most, the answer is simple: It's
the family.

That's why, no matter what else Republicans do wrong on immigration, Obama will
never make this right.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him at
ruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday

East Bay mom's deportation delayed after close call

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 576 words


As she raised two sons and ran a Pittsburg hair salon, Nancy Beyan heard little
from the immigration authorities who had ordered her back to Liberia nearly two
decades ago.

Then, suddenly, a letter arrived in late February announcing her looming
deportation this week. The 50-year-old widow and her two sons were devastated,
but the family found a lawyer and, on Monday afternoon, was able to delay the
deportation until September.

"It's really been very stressful on me and on my children," Beyan said.

"I have two kids. I'm their surviving parent. They depend on me for everything."

The licensed cosmetologist and her lawyer, Andrew Taylor, filed an emergency
request Monday afternoon asking immigration authorities to let her stay.

The stay wasn't formally granted, but immigration agents agreed to put the
deportation on hold, telling Beyan to return to their San Francisco office in
September.

The move brought temporary relief to a family's monthlong emotional roller
coaster.

When the deportation letter arrived, her son Joseph Wiles, 22, handed over the
brief, blunt message.

"It is now incumbent upon this Service to enforce your departure from the United
States," wrote a field officer from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Bring your luggage -- no more than 40 pounds -- the letter told the Contra Costa
County resident, who has lived in the United States for 27 years.

Beyan was told to report to her scheduled deportation on Wednesday.

"We cried," Beyan said. "He said, 'Mommy, it's going to be OK.' I said, 'I'm not
going to run anymore. I'm tired.' We prayed. If it comes to the point where I
have to go, I was going to go. It's not up to us."

"She's my mom. I can't lose her. I already lost my dad. I can't lose my mom,"
said Joseph Wiles, his voice breaking Monday morning before he learned of the
last-minute reprieve.

Both sons were born in the United States. His younger brother, Jeremy Wiles, 19,
attends Grinnell College in Iowa on a football scholarship.

Their father, Beyan's husband, was a Liberian immigrant who died in 2002 after a
long illness.

Beyan came to California on a tourist visa in the 1980s. Although an immigration
judge denied her appeal for political asylum and ordered her deported in 1994,
Taylor said Beyan sought other legal means to remain in the country with her
family.

Her husband fought a decade-long battle to win a green card but died before he
could sponsor Beyan as his wife.

Later, she successfully applied to delay her deportation because of Liberia's
protracted civil war, which cost hundreds of thousands of lives between 1989 and
2003.

"She reported to them: 'Here I am, I'm living at this address,' " Taylor said.

In 2003, however, Beyan failed to file the $80 form to renew that protection,
known as Temporary Protected Status. Taylor suspects immigration authorities
finally decided to pursue Beyan's deportation this year after updating some of
the technology they use to keep track of cases.

But Beyan deserves to stay in the United States, he said. Family members and
friends at Beyan's church, the International Christian Ministry in Antioch, are
hoping the Obama administration's new policy to halt some deportations of
upstanding illegal immigrants will apply in this case.

"The entire time, Nancy was raising her sons, taking care of her husband,
working to support the family," Taylor said.

"If the government won't help Nancy under this prosecutorial discretion
initiative, then who will be helped?"

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nancy Beyan receives one of many hugs after emerging from a hearing
with Immigration & Customs Enforcement in San Francisco, Calif. Monday, March
19, 2012. Initially told she would be deported back to her native Liberia this
week, Beyan, who has lived in the United States for 27 years after escaping the
Liberian civil war, was granted a six-month reprieve to prepare her case.
(Kristopher Skinner/Staff)
Nancy Beyan, center, is surrounded by supporters as she looks skyward after
emerging from a hearing with Immigration & Customs Enforcement in San Francisco,
Calif. Monday, March 19, 2012. Initially told she would be deported back to her
native Liberia this week, Beyan, who has lived in the United States for 27 years
after escaping the Liberian civil war, was granted a six-month reprieve to
prepare her case. (Kristopher Skinner/Staff)
Nancy Beyan holds son Joseph after emerging from a hearing with Immigration &
Customs Enforcement in San Francisco, Calif. Monday, March 19, 2012. Initially
told she would be deported back to her native Liberia this week, Beyan, who has
lived in the United States for 27 years after escaping the Liberian civil war,
was granted a six-month reprieve to prepare her case. (Kristopher Skinner/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 23, 2012 Friday

Reynaldo Gil: Perception of Hispanic immigrants stalls at the stereotype

BYLINE: By Reynaldo Gil Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 622 words


I am an entrepreneur. I am a leader in the technology industry. I believe in
immigration policy focused not only on reuniting families, but also on
recruiting top scientists, engineers and innovators to help drive our economy.
And I am a Hispanic immigrant.

If you listen to politicians or the media, I don't exist. As conventional wisdom
goes, Hispanic immigrants are low-skilled, here illegally and focused on
immigration that opens borders and reunites families -- not immigration based on
the need for skills.

Nobody talks about Hispanic business owners creating American jobs during our
recession. Nobody talks about the small but growing class of Hispanic technology
leaders driving our innovation economy. And nobody talks about the fact that
even on the hot-button issue of immigration, other Hispanics and I believe what
most Americans believe: We need to recruit skilled workers to keep our economy
growing and to create more American jobs.

My Hispanic immigrant story is the American immigrant story. My family moved to
the Bronx, N.Y., from Cuba when I was 7. My father worked as a painter and
factory worker, building a better life for his children and grandchildren.

At 18, I was recruited for an innovation job training program, where I learned
software development. I then launched my career at IBM, Charles Schwab and Bank
of America, becoming one of the principal architects behind Bank of America's
ATM network.

Over the past two decades, I have become a serial entrepreneur, creating scores
of American jobs. My first company, WorldChain, was a precursor to cloud
computing that saved such companies as Dell and StorageTek tens of millions of
dollars annually. My most recent venture, ReyLabs, cofounded with my wife,
Linda, is bringing a multicultural approach to the mobile applications industry.

My achievements pale in comparison to what my children will achieve. Two of my
three children joined the high-tech industry, while my third is a music
entrepreneur who is creating products and services.

My family is not unique. Hispanic immigrants are making strong inroads into all
industries, particularly in green construction and food services, logistics,
mobile applications and local small businesses.

When it comes to immigration, our views are equally diverse. It is undoubtedly
true that Hispanics favor a more sensible immigration system that respects
families and treats all individuals with respect. However, it is equally true
that, as new American entrepreneurs, we share the common view of Americans today
that we need to focus on local jobs and the economy. We believe that instead of
waiting for a promised overhaul of our immigration system that never comes,
Congress can pass discrete immigration reforms today that will help our economy
and break the logjam that has stalled all recent immigration bills.

I want our legislators in Congress to pass measures such as creating a startup
visa for entrepreneurs who want to come here to start a business that will
create American jobs, and granting green cards to the top science, technology,
engineering and math minds around the world. We are training them in our
universities and then sending them abroad to compete against us.

Many on both sides of the aisle unfairly and dishonestly suggest that Hispanics
oppose immigration reform that doesn't focus solely on families. It does
Hispanics and the prospects of sensible comprehensive reform a strong disservice
to suggest that we do not support initiatives to attract job-creation talent.

It's time for an honest discussion about who Hispanic immigrants are and what we
believe. You may be surprised what you find.

Reynaldo Gil is the founder and CEO at ReyLabs in San Jose. He wrote this for
this newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2012 Thursday

Lucha Libre USA Mexican wrestling tour grapples with controversy

BYLINE: By Daniel Brown dbrown@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Entertainment

LENGTH: 1110 words


If everything goes well for RJ Brewer on Friday night, an HP Pavilion crowd will
boo him senseless. His job is to antagonize the mostly Latino audience during
the pro wrestling tour known as Lucha Libre USA.

Among his hobbies, Brewer lists volunteering for the U.S. Border Patrol with a
pit bull named Visa. During a recent stop in San Jose, he vowed again to unmask
the tour's traditional Mexican heroes taking away American jobs.

"I've asked countless times for these guys to take their masks off, show me
their passports, show me their IDs, show me that they're legal to work here in
the United States," Brewer thundered during a promotional news conference.

Brewer's political rhetoric is good for business: Promoters expect to sell out
all 8,000 seats this week.

It also tests the bounds of satire. Lucha Libre USA organizers, as well as the
tour's fans, say that an over-the-top villain is as old as pro wrestling itself.
But immigration activists wonder if this particular punch line goes too far.

"It is absolutely detestable that they would condone repeating such vile hate
just to improve ratings and 'get a reaction' from the audience," said Laura
Rivas, a spokeswoman for the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights
based in Oakland.

By design, Lucha Libre USA is a culture clash, combining the colorful acrobatics
of lucha libre, Spanish for "freestyle wrestling," with the English-speaking
bravado of American pro wrestling.

Heather Levi, an assistant professor at Temple University in Philadelphia who
wrote a book on the sport, noted that matches are essentially a showdown between
good and evil -- the técnicos vs. the rudos.

By that count, Brewer, 32, is a memorable rudo. His character is the purported
son of Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed legislation requiring immigrants to
carry documentation or face arrest. RJ Brewer has been known to wear a copy of
that bill, SB 1070, attached to his costume.

Brewer is credited with luring another non-Latino to the tour, Petey Williams,
whose biography claims Brewer "convinced him that the Luchastars were taking
away American jobs."

While in San Jose last month, Brewer cut off an emcee talking in Spanish to
Latino media. "I have it in my contract that this has to start in English or I
don't participate," Brewer snapped.

He also looked across the dais at his foe, the Blue Demon Jr., and wondered what
would happen if the Mexican wrestlers dared to take off their masks. "Maybe
we'll notice them from a kidnapping or a murder," he said.

Gustavo Arellano, a native of Mexico who has written extensively about lucha
libre, laughed when told of Brewer's shtick, saying that the character fits the
tradition of "a grotesque carnival where stereotypes are played to the hilt."

"Taking off the mask and deporting them? That's awesome. I think it's great,"
said Arellano, the editor for Orange County Weekly and author of the column "Ask
a Mexican." "Yeah, it's offensive, but that's the whole point. (Wrestling) is
supposed to be a place where the fan can let go of their inhibitions or let go
of their nerves and just root for the good against the bad."

Lucha Libre USA, now in its fourth year, is making its first visit to the Bay
Area. This Masked Warriors Live Tour is a 10-stop trek through Western cities
with large Latino populations. Los Angeles and Fresno are next.

As the first English-speaking, lucha-style wrestling show in the U.S., the
league's matches have aired on MTV2 and MTV's Tr3s, a network aimed at
"bicultural Latino youth."

The masks are just one part of the lucha libre tradition, which dates to 1933,
being introduced to U.S. audiences. There are also male wrestlers in drag called
exóticos, female wrestlers called "Chica Stars," and "Mini Estrellas," who are
often diminutive versions of other wrestlers.

The tour's most successful promotional tool, however, is Brewer, who has
inspired stories by the BBC, among other outlets. The Los Angeles Times shadowed
him for an upcoming profile.

CEO Steven Ship told The Huffington Post that the Brewer story line is a way to
bring humor to a serious issue. "The majority of the media treats it in a very
serious manner -- but there's no reason it can't also be sort of highlighted in
a satirical manner at the same time," he said.

Lucha Libre USA is hardly the first pro wrestling tour to make use of an
exaggerated character. The Iron Sheik, playing off the hostilities of the Iran
hostage crisis, would inflame patriotic World Wrestling Federation crowds in the
1980s by spitting at the mere mention of the United States.

But Jazmin Segura, a federal policy advocate for the Services, Immigrant Rights
& Education Network, or SIREN, in San Jose, was taken aback the way Lucha Libre
USA uses Brewer to drum up business.

"Even if this is intended to be a satire about Arizona's 'show me your papers'
law, what is happening to our communities is no joke," said the UC Berkeley
graduate who emigrated from Mexico. "We cannot overlook the fact that SB 1070 is
responsible for tearing thousands of American families apart.

"It is a shame that they would support the use of sentiments that undermine and
dehumanize hardworking people who are seeking a better future."

Promoters are cagey about phrasing Brewer's alleged affiliation with Gov. Jan
Brewer, describing his character's "mother" not by name but as "one of the
highest-ranking officials in the nation and holds great power and influence over
the state of Arizona."

A spokesman from the governor's office, responding to an email about the
wrestler, said "of course" there is no familial relationship and added: "We
haven't commented on it and aren't interested in doing so now."

During a calm moment before his fiery news conference in San Jose, Brewer slid
into a corner booth at an HP Pavilion restaurant and discussed his role as
provocateur. His real name is John Stagikas, and he is a former real estate
agent from Massachusetts.

He is coy about whether he believes what he says onstage. (Lizmark Jr., another
rudo, apparently buys it, telling the BBC: "It sounds pretty real. People truly
hate him, not just when he's in the ring.")

Brewer said that in San Jose he expects to be able to measure the quality of his
work by the decibel level.

"You know you're doing your job properly when people are reacting," he said.
"I'd rather that (fans) 100 percent hate me and make noise than not do anything
at all. Because that leaves you with questions: Do they understand who I am? Do
they know what I'm saying?"

Lucha Libre USA

What: Masked Warriors Live Tour, the first English-speaking lucha-style
wrestling tour in the U.S.

When: 8 p.m. Friday

Where: HP Pavilion

Web:http://luchalibreusa.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Courtesy Lucha Libre USA -- Luchador Rocky Romero plays it up for the
television camera as luchador Super Nova watches during a recent match.
Courtesy Lucha Libre USA -- Luchador Rocky Romero, left battles the tag team of
San Juan Kid, center and his brother, PR Flyer, right. Lucha Libre emphasizes a
more acrobatic form of wrestling. The luchador who is down is Super Nova.
Courtesy Lucha Libre USA -- R.J. Brewer, the villian luchador.
Courtesy Lucha Libre USA -- Luchadors in action.
Courtesy Lucha Libre USA -- Luchadors R.J. Brewer, standing, and Lizmark Jr.
battle during a recent match.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

Immigration sweep arrests 200 in Northern California

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News

LENGTH: 186 words


Immigration agents arrested about 200 people in Northern California and more
than 3,100 nationwide in a six-day sweep last week looking for immigrants who
can be deported because they have a criminal record or ignored deportation
orders.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents arrested 37 people in Santa
Clara County, 18 in Alameda County and 16 in Contra Costa County as part of the
50-state "Operation Cross Check," which ended Thursday.

The arrests included legal and illegal immigrants who are deportable because of
crimes they committed. Also arrested were immigration fugitives, who are people
living in the country illegally who have ignored deportation orders. Agents also
arrested more than 500 people who had illegally re-entered the United States
after being deported.

About 90 percent of the people arrested nationwide had criminal convictions; 47
percent of those arrested had felony convictions.

Of the 200 arrested in Northern California, half had convictions "for serious or
violent crimes," according to an ICE statement. The agency did not release the
names of those arrested or their crimes.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Wealthy Chinese seek special visas to relocate to Bay Area

BYLINE: By John Boudreau jboudreau@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; Business

LENGTH: 1120 words


Even as China emerges as a super power, many of those who have benefited most
from the country's economic rise are heading for the exits. And many are
relocating to the Bay Area, whose large Asian population, good schools and
comfortable lifestyle are powerful draws for Chinese multimillionaires concerned
about the future of their homeland and seeking the own American dream.

"The rich people are trying to get green cards," said Ta-lin Hsu, founder and
chairman of Palo Alto-based venture capital firm H&Q Asia Pacific, who spends a
lot of time in Asia. He is frequently asked by business associates about how to
immigrate to the United States.

"The main reason is, they still worry about the future stability of China," Hsu
said. "The U.S. is a democracy, there is freedom and it's a safer place."

The exit door for many of these wealthy Chinese is opened by the fast-track
visas America offers for well-heeled immigrants. Known as the EB-5, the visa
requires applicants to invest $500,000 in projects in economically struggling
regions or $1 million in a commercial venture in other locations. The
investments must create or preserve 10 jobs for two years. If successful, the
applicants and their families -- spouses and children younger than 21 -- are
awarded permanent residency.

The foreign money is a welcome source of funding for many projects. Oakland city
officials, for example, have eyed the program to help pay for a project that
includes hotels, a convention center, shops and new facilities for the Raiders
and Warriors and possibly a new A's ballpark.

In recent years, as the number of China's millionaires has grown, interest in
the program from across the Pacific has soared.

Between 1992 and 2011, the number of applications for investor visas jumped 700
percent, from 474 to 3,805, according to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services. In the past two years alone, the number applicants has nearly
quadrupled. More applications by far come from China than any other country.
Last year, 77 percent of all of those who applied for these visas were Chinese.

"They are standing in line," said Scott Bachman, CEO of San Mateo-based eBee5.
His company helps pair large development projects with wealthy Chinese looking
to invest in the United States.

"When I go to China, I get a Chinese cellphone and I am constantly bombarded
with EB-5 (advertising) text messages," said Kevin Wright, a consultant with
offices in the United States and China.

A survey of 980 Chinese millionaires published last fall by the Bank of China
and the Hurun Report, which tracks the country's wealthy, revealed that 46
percent of them were thinking about leaving China, while an additional 14
percent were filling out immigration paperwork or had already left the country.

"The Chinese government is definitely worried," said one successful EB-5
applicant, who relocated his family from Beijing to Los Altos Hills after
initially moving to Texas, where he invested in a metal processing factory. The
man, who asked that he only be identified as Mr. Zhang, did not want to reveal
his full identity because he still does business in China and does not want to
upset powerful government officials.

Indeed, most Chinese who come to the United States on these visas strive to
remain under-the-radar, particularly those doing business in China, whose laws
forbid transferring more than $50,000 a year out of the country.

Many Americans, bruised by the long recession and its painful aftermath, worry
about the United States being eclipsed by China. But many successful Chinese
complain about China's pervasive corruption, polluted air, contaminated food and
educational system that stresses memorization over creative thinking.

"The United States looks like a pretty good option to them," said San Francisco
immigration attorney Robert Gaffney, a specialist in EB-5 visas who is fluent in
Mandarin. "It's a quality of life decision for them. They are voting with their
pocketbook: They'd rather be here than in their own country."

The money of these deep-pocket immigrants is highly valued in this country at a
time investment funds can still be tough to acquire for some development
projects.

"Local financing is just not available, or it's very hard to come by, especially
for construction," said Katie Yao with Sand Hill Property, a Redwood City
developer that is planning to build a hotel across the street from the
yet-to-be-built new Apple campus in Cupertino.

So far, the company has found one Chinese investor interested in backing the
project with a $1 million stake, with the hope of getting an EB-5 visa.

"We are only trying to raise $20 million -- that means 20 (Chinese) families,"
she said. "We offer 6 percent returns and profit-sharing."

By China's boom-time standards -- which often reward investors with returns of
100 percent or more -- the Cupertino hotel project hardly seems worth their
interest, she admitted. However, Yao added, "People want to find a shelter for
their money, someplace safe."

The investor visa, which began in 1992, will expire in September unless Congress
reauthorizes it, but experts expect that to happen.

"It has enjoyed bipartisan support," said Peter Joseph, executive director for
the Association to Invest In the USA, a trade group that lobbies Congress. "It's
about creating jobs without spending anything from the public purse."

Indeed, the risks are borne by the immigrant investors, San Jose immigration
attorney Acton Yang said.

"The EB-5 requires a risky investment," he said. "It can't be investing in a
security. You can't just buy a house. It has to be a risky investment that will
generate employment in the United States."

And if investors put money in something that fails -- say, a shopping center in
a troubled neighborhood -- they stand to lose more than their cash, noted
consultant Bachman. "If the business is dead, they not only lose their money,
they lose their visas," he said.

Still, many wealthy Chinese are willing to place such bets if they trust those
they are doing business with, said Zhang, whose wife and two children live in
their gated Los Altos Hills home while he splits his time between China and
Silicon Valley.

The number of people in China who can make a $1 million investment "is huge," he
said. "I am the captain of my golf team, 40 people. More than half of them can
make a $1 million investment just like that.

"The Chinese have full confidence in the United States," he added. "It will come
back. That's why, from an investment perspective, there are a lot of
opportunities here. At least a dozen people around me want to come here. They
have the economic power. They have the means."

Contact John Boudreau at 408-278-3496. Follow him atTwitter.com/svwriter .

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Santa Cruz County sheriff-coroner in crossfire on immigration program

BYLINE: By Jason Hoppin jhoppin@santacruzsentinel.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Central Coast; News; Local

LENGTH: 886 words


SANTA CRUZ -- Santa Cruz County Sheriff-Coroner Phil Wowak on Tuesday found
himself caught between an encroaching federal immigration program and resistance
from local Latinos who want the county's top law enforcement official to take a
strong stand against it.

Appearing before the county Board of Supervisors, Wowak outline his plans to
layer his own local reviews into a Department of Homeland Security program known
as Secure Communities, which uses local jail bookings to help deport
undocumented immigrants. It is aimed at those with a history of violence.

But critics say the program sweeps up nonviolent offenders and even U.S.
citizens, and local rights groups say Secure Communities could impact public
safety here by making illegal immigrants more reluctant to contact police. They
want Wowak to resist the program.

Wowak said he would implement assessments of jailed immigrants, releasing those
who have no history of violence and who have no charges pending. But beyond
that, Wowak said federal immigration hold requests create the strong likelihood
that even nonviolent offenders would flee.

"Look at it from a common sense point of view. Would I, if I had issues with a
federal agency, would I come back to clear up a local issue?" Wowak said. "There
is an unintended consequence to that that I'm not willing to assume at this
time." Since it was created four years ago, Secure Communities has been expanded
to every state. But it has also drawn controversy, sparking rallies and leading
some local domestic violence prevention advocates to no longer advise
undocumented victims to call police.

The county board heard a report on Wowak's plans Tuesday, but it has no
authority over the independently elected sheriff, just as it isn't clear what
authority Wowak has to ignore federal detention requests. Instead, the board
voted to ask for a report on what the county's options are, including whether it
can ignore requests to hold inmates for possible deportation.

"I think it's something we'd have to seriously look at," Board of Supervisors
Chair John Leopold said, when asked whether the county would explore viable
options to eliminate county participation in the program altogether.

With local jails operating above capacity, Leopold fumed that the federal
government asked for the immigration holds without providing any funding,
pointing out that FEMA also refused to pay for storm damage from last year's
March rainstorms.

Supervisor Greg Caput, who represents most of Watsonville, also said he has
concerns about the program. Caput said he wants to convene an upcoming town hall
meeting on the program.

The policy change announced by Wowak would result in about 10 percent fewer
inmates being detained for possible deportation. They are mostly inmates hauled
into jail for public drunkenness, which is not typically charged, Wowak said.

But the move did not ease the concerns of either a local task force convened to
look at Secure Communities nor the county's Latino Affairs Commission, both of
which strongly disagree with Wowak's position.

More than a dozen local immigrations rights advocates, farmworker advocates,
religious leaders and even a marriage counselor urged the board, and Wowak, to
resist Secure Communities. Many favor an expected state bill aimed at ensuring
only those convicted of a crime are caught in Secure Communities' net.

Laura Segura-Gallardo, executive director of Defensa de Mujeres and who works
with domestic violence victims, said she is concerned the program undermines
decades of efforts to get victims of domestic violence to come forward.

"Law enforcement is now perceived as an arm of immigration rather than focused
on public safety," Segura-Gallardo said. "This will result in a general decrease
in public safety." When asked after the meeting what he would tell illegal
immigrants who are afraid to come forward, Wowak said:

"Not reporting crimes to law enforcement will only exacerbate their situation.
It can really put people at risk. Our law enforcement agency and no law
enforcement agency in Santa Cruz County takes immigration action in the field,"
Wowak said. "That's what we want everybody to understand, that they're not in
danger by reporting crimes to us."

Wowak, who at one point made an off-the-cuff remark about being caught "in the
middle" on the issue,- also said he would meet with ICE soon to discuss his
plans. Asked whether he expected "pushback," Wowak was blunt.

"Yes," he said.

In other business, the county became the second local government to approve an
expanded ban on polystyrene products, adding foam toys, coolers and more to an
existing ban on foam to-go containers. Capitola recently adopted the law, and
Santa Cruz and Scotts Valley are likely to soon follow suit.

"I've researched it and haven't found anywhere else where they've really gone
beyond the take-out containers," said Laura Kasa, executive director of Save Our
Shores.

The law is not yet in effect, and contains several exceptions. For more
information, go toSantaCruzCountyRecycles.org .

The board also votes to support two pending state bills. One would help fund
state parks, while another would provide for more transparency in political
advertising.

Both resolutions came at the behest of Supervisor Neal Coonerty.

Follow Sentinel reporter Jason Hoppin on Twitter @scnewsdude

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday

GOP Hispanic official from Bay Area in hot water over Romney immigration stance

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 415 words


A top Republican operative from the Bay Area dragged the Mitt Romney
presidential campaign into sensitive territory this week when she said Romney
was "still deciding" on his immigration stance.

Los Gatos resident Bettina Inclán, who coordinates Hispanic outreach for the
Republican National Committee, revealed at a video conference Tuesday that she
wasn't sure about the former Massachusetts governor's approach to immigration.

"As a candidate, to my understanding, he is still deciding what his position on
immigration is, so I can't talk about what his proposal is going to be," she
said in response to questions.

Inclán later retracted her statement, saying on Twitter, "I misspoke, Romney's
position on immigration is clear," but by then Democrats had capitalized on the
gaffe.

Romney ran to the right of most of his Republican contenders on immigration
during the primary campaign, but many political experts expect he may take a
more moderate tone in the coming months in a quest to woo Latino voters.

"Over the past year Mitt Romney has proven time and time again that he is the
most extreme presidential candidate in modern history on immigration. His
position may be inconvenient, but it has been clear," Gabriela Domenzain, the
Obama campaign's director for Hispanic press outreach, said in a statement
Tuesday.

Domenzain added: "He has promised to veto the DREAM Act, thinks all undocumented
immigrants should self-deport, has called the anti-immigrant Arizona law a
'model' for the nation and has paraded around the country with the nation's
leading anti-immigrant voices."

Inclán could not be reached for comment Wednesday. On Twitter, she pointed to
Romney's campaign website for his position on immigration.

The RNC hired the 32-year-old Inclán in January to direct Latino outreach around
the country. She had worked on campaigns in her native Florida and in the
nation's capital before moving to the Bay Area three years ago to work on the
gubernatorial campaign of Steve Poizner, then the state insurance commissioner.

She veered away from discussing immigration policy in a February interview with
this newspaper, insisting the issue is far less important to Latinos than the
economy. However, she blogged last year that the tone of the debate over illegal
immigration "has dictated how many Latino voters perceive a candidate,
especially Republican candidates."

The reality, she said then, "is we need to find a middle ground between a
blanket amnesty and forced mass deportation."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

Immigration permit auction touted as reform that would aid economy

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 848 words


America's decades-old immigration system should be replaced with an auction of
work permits, says a UC Davis economist who is attracting attention on Capitol
Hill.

His market-based reform, which was unveiled Tuesday, would have U.S. companies
compete in a quarterly electronic auction to buy permits to hire foreign
workers.

In essence, U.S. firms' willingness to pay for work-based visas would become
more important than family connections and fixed quotas in determining who gets
to move to the United States.

"This would be quite a new system," said Giovanni Peri, a professor who studies
labor economics, explaining how it would replace today's first-come,
first-served waiting list and random lottery that dictate who gets work visas.

Each auctioned permit would be tied to a temporary visa. Visa-holders would be
free to move from one job to another, making it harder for hiring companies to
exploit them. Those who remain employed could later apply for permanent
residency.

Work permit bids would start at a minimum $7,000 for high-skilled workers and
$1,000 for lower-skilled seasonal jobs. Higher demand for workers could push
employers' bid prices higher, compelling Congress to make more visas available.

Revenue from the auction would be channeled to the federal government and to
state and local agencies that provide public education and other services to
immigrant families.

"Giovanni has a very ambitious proposal that would fundamentally reshape the
immigration system," said Michael Greenstone, director of The Hamilton Project
and an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Greenstone's group commissioned Peri to create the three-phase immigration
overhaul. The project is affiliated with the Brookings Institution, a
nonpartisan think tank, and named after Alexander Hamilton, the nation's first
secretary of the Treasury.

"All it's doing is taking this very opaque, lawyer-heavy approach to who gets
employment visas and (replacing it with) a very transparent approach,"
Greenstone said.

Gone would be the long and arbitrary waits that for some would-be immigrants can
last a decade. The auction would also make inviting a foreign worker more costly
to employers than hiring an available local worker, undercutting concerns that
low-paid immigrants are taking American jobs.

A leading advocate for reducing immigration levels said he was "open to the idea
of auctions" as a fairer immigration path than the current bureaucracy, but he
worried Peri's plan placed too few limits on businesses.

"The question is, is this just a vehicle for more employment-based immigration?
That's something that is clearly a mistake," said Mark Krikorian, director of
the Center for Immigration Studies. "What they seem to be trying to do is sneak
in big increases in immigration under the cover of making the process more
efficient and streamlining."

The new approach is informed by Peri's economic research, which has found that
immigration rarely hurts and often helps native-born workers in the United
States by raising overall productivity.

"Immigration creates a large economic surplus for the American economy," Peri
said. "Immigrants move from their country and become much more productive in the
U.S., generating more income and wealth."

Peri puts his plan into a divisive national debate over illegal immigration and
job competition that many economists believe is divorced from economic
realities. Shifting to a labor-driven system would make the need for immigrants
more apparent, he said.

"It would certainly generate more awareness and clarity on the economic value of
immigrants and immigration," Peri said.

After a pilot program for temporary work visas, Peri would expand the auction
model to most of the immigration system and restrict family-based immigration to
immediate relatives.

That would shift American immigration away from the family focus that has guided
policy since 1965. However, Peri believes the expansion of auctioned work
permits would open doors for many Latin American immigrants for whom extended
family connections is the only legal immigration option today.

Peri said his funders wanted him to create a proposal that "had a real chance of
being implemented, accounting for the possible roadblocks and criticisms."

No country has tried such an auction before, he said. Canada and Australia have
a points-based system that favors high-skilled immigrants, but the government,
not the labor market, determines the rankings.

The professor presented his 30-page proposal Tuesday morning at a forum attended
by a White House domestic policy adviser and a bipartisan group of political and
business leaders.

Peri said the new system would help solve the problem of unmet business demand
for low-skilled labor that drives illegal immigration, but lawmakers would still
need to do something about the roughly 11.5 million undocumented immigrants
already here.

An immigration auction?

To read the full proposal by UC Davis economist Giovanni Peri, go
tohttp://www.hamiltonproject.org/papers/rationalizing_u
.s._immigration_policy_reforms_for_simplicity_fairness_/

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Bay Area immigration records, destined for dustbin, will be released Tuesday

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 401 words


Tens of thousands of old West Coast immigration records the government once
sought to throw away will instead become publicly available Tuesday at a Bay
Area archive.

Photographs, letters, health records, interview transcripts and other historical
documents were destined for a recycling bin or a remote Midwestern storage
facility.

"We changed that plan. We're making them permanent," said spokeswoman Sharon
Rummery of U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Services.

Archivists credit the advocacy of the late U.S. Rep. Tom Lantos, D-San Mateo,
and his successor, Rep. Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, for helping to save the
collection.

The documents will be housed in San Bruno, at the National Archives at San
Francisco, and open to the public beginning Tuesday.

The lawmakers argued that the Alien Files, known as the A-Files, should be made
permanent records of "enduring historical value."

The files are for people from more than 100 countries who arrived, legally or
not, on American shores, including many affected by laws excluding Chinese
immigrants in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Chinese Exclusion Act
files were already housed in the archives, but the new collection includes
supplemental documents.

The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno's new collection are specifically for
immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by immigration agents in San
Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files are currently available,
but others will be released later. Another 300,000 files for the rest of the
country are housed in Kansas City.

Kept for more than a century in local immigration offices, officials deliberated
for years about what to do with the documents until the decision in 2009 to keep
them.

Immigration officials originally planned to discard each file 75 years after it
was inactive, such as after someone became a citizen, died or was deported, said
Marisa Louie of the National Archives.

How to SEE the 'A-Files'

Thousands of old immigration records from the so-called Alien Files, or A-Files,
will be open to the public beginning Tuesday at the San Francisco National
Archives, 1000 Commodore Drive, San Bruno.
Archivists suggest emailing them atafiles.sanbruno@nara.gov or calling
650-238-3501 before traveling there.
By the end of the month, the National Archives will launch a name-based online
index to help with records searches atwww.archives.gov/pacific/san-francisco .

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Oakley to host citizenship drive this weekend

BYLINE: By Rowena Coetsee Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words


Immigrants will get help becoming an American citizen at a citizen drive in
Oakley this weekend.

The drive will take place at 9 a.m. Saturday at O'Hara Park Middle School, 1100
O'Hara Ave., Oakley.

Volunteers will be on hand to help eligible permanent residents complete the
required naturalization application. To be eligible, a person must be a legal
permanent resident for at least five years, or three years if they are married
to a U.S. citizen. They also must demonstrate good moral conduct.

All applications will be verified by immigration attorneys from the
International Institute of the Bay Area and Contra Costa Bar Association.

Participants also will hear a presentation on the benefits of citizenship,
including the right to vote.

After completing the naturalization application, they can register for civics
classes provided by Liberty Union High School District's adult education
program.

Together with Opportunity Junction, IIBA will provide information about English
as a Second Language classes on Monday evenings in Antioch.

The drive is intended to foster a sense of community and encourage new Americans
to participate in their communities.

Other organizations helping to organize the event are the city of Oakley and
Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Community Organization.

To register for the event, emailgaby@youmeweoakley.org or call 925-625-7011.

Contact Rowena Coetsee at 925-779-7141.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2012 Thursday

Bay Area immigration records, destined for dustbin, will be released Tuesday

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: SPECIAL REPORTS; News

LENGTH: 450 words


Tens of thousands of old West Coast immigration records the government once
sought to throw away will instead become publicly available on Tuesday at a Bay
Area archive.

Photographs, letters, health records, interview transcripts and other historical
documents were destined for a recycling bin or a remote Midwestern storage
facility.

"We changed that plan. We're making them permanent," said spokeswoman Sharon
Rummery of U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Services.

Archivists credit the advocacy of the late U.S. Rep. Tom Lantos, D-San Mateo,
and his successor, Rep. Jackie Speier, D-San Mateo, for helping to save the
collection.

The documents will be housed at the San Francisco National Archives in San Bruno
and open to the public beginning Tuesday.

The lawmakers argued that the Alien Files, known as the A-Files, should be made
permanent records of "enduring historical value."

The files are for people from more than 100 countries who arrived, legally or
not, on American shores, including many affected by laws excluding Chinese
immigrants in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Chinese Exclusion Act
files were already housed in the archives, but the new collection includes
supplemental documents.

The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno's new collection are specifically for
immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by immigration agents in San
Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files are currently available,
but others will be released later. Another 300,000 files for the rest of the
country are housed in Kansas City.

Kept for more than a century in local immigration offices, officials deliberated
for years about what to do with the documents until the decision in 2009 to keep
them.

Immigration officials originally planned to discard each file 75 years after it
was inactive, such as after someone became a citizen, died or was deported, said
Marisa Louie, of the National Archives.

"No files were disposed that we know of, but they had those deadlines looming
over their head," she said.

This is the second major archival data trove coming to Bay Area genealogists and
researchers this year. Millions of personal records from the 1940 census became
available last month.

How to SEE the 'A-Files'

Thousands of old immigration records from the so-called Alien Files, or A-Files,
will be open to the public Tuesday at the San Francisco National Archives, 1000
Commodore Drive, San Bruno.
Archivists suggest emailing them atafiles.sanbruno@nara.gov or calling
650-238-3501 before traveling there.
By the end of the month, the National Archives will launch a name-based online
index to help search for the records at its
website:www.archives.gov/pacific/san-francisco .

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One of the documents that are part of the Alien files, otherwise known
as the A-Files, are now part of the National Archives at San Francisco in San
Bruno, Calif. Thursday, May 17, 2012 and will be available to the public
beginning Tuesday. The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno¿s new collection are
specifically for immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by
immigration agents in San Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files
are currently available, but others will be released later. (Courtesy of the
National Archives at San Francisco)
One of the documents that are part of the Alien files, otherwise known as the
A-Files, are now part of the National Archives at San Francisco in San Bruno,
Calif. Tursday, May 17, 2012 and will be available to the public beginning
Tuesday. The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno¿s new collection are specifically
for immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by immigration agents in
San Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files are currently
available, but others will be released later. (Courtesy of the National Archives
at San Francisco)
One of the documents that are part of the Alien files, otherwise known as the
A-Files, are now part of the National Archives at San Francisco in San Bruno,
Calif. Thursday, May 17, 2012 and will be available to the public beginning
Tuesday. The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno¿s new collection are specifically
for immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by immigration agents in
San Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files are currently
available, but others will be released later. (Courtesy of the National Archives
at San Francisco)
One of the documents that are part of the Alien files, otherwise known as the
A-Files, are now part of the National Archives at San Francisco in San Bruno,
Calif. Thursday, May 17, 2012 and will be available to the public beginning
Tuesday. The roughly 40,000 files in San Bruno¿s new collection are specifically
for immigrants or foreign visitors who were processed by immigration agents in
San Francisco, Reno, Honolulu or Guam. Only pre-1910 files are currently
available, but others will be released later. (Courtesy of the National Archives
at San Francisco)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

Daughter struggling to come to grips with mugging that left her father a
quadriplegic in Oakland

BYLINE: By Anna Gallegos Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 724 words


The daughter of an Oakland man left a quadriplegic  when he was hit in the head
during a robbery in 2011 questions why her father was left to die just steps
away from their home.

The woman, who asked that the family not be identified out of fear of reprisal,
said her 66-year-old father has a good sense of humor and a generous heart.

"I just don't understand why they (the attackers) just didn't walk up to him and
ask him for money," said the 29-year-old woman. "My dad is a very giving person.
He would have been willing to help him. They didn't have to hit him."

Police have made no arrests in the attack that occurred in early January 2011,
when the man was found lying in the street near 35th and Hageman avenues.
Community activists said he is among many immigrants who have become easy
targets of crime.

"It's very hard for them to communicate between them and the people trying to do
something bad to them," said Wah Blu Soe, social adjustment counselor of the
Burma Refugee Family Network. Robberies are the most common crimes against Asian
immigrants who live in high-crime neighborhoods.

The network, in conjunction with the Oakland Police Department, will hold a
workshop Saturday to inform immigrants about personal safety and crime
prevention at the Vietnamese American Community Center of East Bay in Oakland.

The victim of the January 2011 attack, a husband and father of two adult
daughters, is back home now, but "he's not the same as he was before," his
daughter said. He is bedridden and relies entirely on his wife and daughters for
care.

The man immigrated with his family from Vietnam in 1991 and worked as a night
custodian for the Mt. Diablo Unified School District. He was attacked as he
returned home after buying milk.

"Before the incident, he was healthy, fine and normal," the 29-year-old daughter
said. "He was the person who takes care of everything in the family. He can't go
out. He has a lot of limitations."

What the attackers did drastically changed the life of the father but also that
of his family.

The daughter had to leave a research assistant position at UC Berkeley to be one
of his primary caretakers because "it's not one-person work," she said.

With all of the hardships, the family is slowly regaining the man that they
thought they lost. After having a breathing tube removed earlier in the year, he
is now able to speak, which was a major milestone for the family. By regaining
his voice, he is able to communicate his needs --  and joke around.

"His personality has not changed. He's still very strong, always open and
interested in other people," said Mary Brennan, a retired Mt. Diablo district
elementary teacher who regularly visits the man.

Through their conversations, Brennan sees the man who had a sense of humor with
the elementary students when he asked them to clean up after themselves. He used
to bring her Vietnamese food.

Brennan is glad that his personality is intact but expresses anger at how little
has been done for the family.

The family has had difficulty contacting the California Victim Compensation
Program, which wouldn't return the daughters' calls, and has taken a financial
hit since their insurance will not cover the cost of diapers and other items
labeled convenience costs.

The daughter is looking to buy a wheelchair accessible van so they no longer
have to rely on public transportation and ambulance companies.

Mostly, she wants her father to be able to travel to see his grandchildren in
San Jose. So far, trips are just out of reach for her father. She is focused on
just making him comfortable and stable.

"Whoever did it didn't realize the impact that this could cause," the daughter
said.

Police and Crime Stoppers of Oakland are offering $10,000 in reward money for
information leading to the arrest of the suspects. Anyone with information can
call police at 510-238-3821 or Crime Stoppers at 510-777-8572 or 510-777-3211.

Staff writer Harry Harris contributed to this report.

Public Safety Workshop

What: A workshop for immigrants about personal safety and crime prevention
When: 9:30 a.m. to noon, Saturday
Where: Vietnamese American Community Center of East Bay, 655 International
Blvd., Oakland
Info: Wah Blu Soe (English, Karen, and Burmese languages) or Sushma Gurung
(Nepali and English languages) at 510-891-8635 or Estifanos Semere (Tigrina
language) at 510-575-3990

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday

Review finding few immigrant deportation cases to set aside

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National

LENGTH: 834 words


One year after the Obama administration said it would stop deporting some
immigrants who are not safety threats, it has dismissed only a small fraction of
the deportation cases reviewed under the new policy, disappointing advocates who
were hoping for dramatic change.

So far, the administration has reviewed more than 232,000 pending deportation
cases since it began using new guidelines granting more discretion in pursuing
immigration violators. Less than 2 percent have been closed or dismissed.

The portion of those who receive reprieves is likely to be 9 percent once the
reviews are complete, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said in a
news release last week.

"It's not something that happens overnight," ICE spokeswoman Gillian Christensen
said.

Some immigrant advocacy groups predict the number of cases closed will not
exceed 4 percent, not much higher than the number immigration judges typically
close each year.

The review accelerated June 4 in the Bay Area when San Francisco's busy
immigration court partially closed for a two-week scouring of cases. The goal is
to weed out the least important of more than 18,000 pending deportations from
across Northern California.

Ulises Toledo is among those hoping to be deemed a low priority.

"I'm excited," Toledo said. "Hopefully I'm one of those they give a reprieve."

The deportation net swept up the 21-year-old Chabot College student in 2010
after police stopped him for driving without a front license plate.

'Caught up'

Immigrant advocates hoped when the reviews were announced a year ago that many
more illegal immigrants such as Toledo would be helped.

"Be it 1 percent or 10 percent of cases closed, the results are still
tremendously disappointing," said Gabriela Villareal of the Oakland-based
California Immigrant Policy Center. "We still see hundreds of thousands of
people who are part of our communities caught up in the dragnet."

Republicans and other immigration control proponents believe the opposite: Too
many illegal immigrants are getting a pass, they say.

Having a case set aside is not a path to citizenship. Administratively closing
low-priority cases puts illegal immigrants in legal limbo -- they can stay here
but not get green cards.

Closing low-priority cases helps immigration agents more quickly remove the
greatest threats to public safety, Christensen said.

The new approach, she said, is "dramatically changing the composition of the
immigration courts and helping to prevent future backlogs."

Most of the people getting reprieves are longtime U.S. residents with family and
community ties and clean records, or students brought to the country when they
were young. Toledo, a San Leandro High School graduate, came to the U.S. when he
was 8 and is related to several U.S. citizens, from his grandfather on down. He
believes he fits the bill.

ICE has been seeking to deport him to Mexico since Hayward police pulled him and
his girlfriend over one afternoon in 2010 near the college campus.

He was behind bars for several days and then taken to an Alameda County jail,
which handed him over to ICE. Such pickups have become more common since 2010,
when all Bay Area counties joined the federal Secure Communities database, which
reports every arrest to immigration agents.

Record deportations

The dragnet contributed to a record 396,906 deportations last year. Until
recently, ICE agents and attorneys rarely made distinctions among deportation
candidates.

With the focus on discretion, ICE has closed or dismissed 4,363 cases, just less
than 2 percent of the total reviewed as of May 29.

Almost as many -- 3,998 people -- declined offers of relief, which can mean they
are seeking to win their immigration case with its chance at a green card and
citizenship. The alternative is the limbo of a case that always can be reopened.

More than 12,000 people offered a dismissed or closed case either are undergoing
a background check or haven't decided whether to accept. That group brings the
total percentage offered a reprieve to 9 percent, according to the new
statistics.

Deportation relief

Here are the main categories of the 4,363 illegal immigrant cases in the U.S.
dismissed or closed in the year-old federal "prosecutorial discretion" program.

3,302: Individuals with a long-term presence in the United States, have an
immediate relative who is a U.S. citizen and have compelling ties and
contributions to the United States.
303: Children who have been here for more than five years and are either in
school or have completed high school.
290: Individuals who came to the United States when they were younger than 16,
have been in the United States for more than five years, have completed high
school and are in or have completed higher education here.
173: Immigrants deemed very low enforcement priority.

Refused to accept dismissal

3,998: Individuals who have declined offers of prosecutorial discretion, often
because they believe they have a better chance at legal residency.

Source: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where
he was pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and
placed into deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license
plate on Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its
second week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where he was
pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and placed into
deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license plate on
Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its second
week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Ulises Toledo Perez, a 21-year-old Chabot College student, shows where he was
pulled over outside the Chabot College campus in Hayward, Calif. and placed into
deportation proceedings in 2010 for driving without a front license plate on
Friday, June 8, 2012. As San Francisco's immigration court begins its second
week of weeding out low-priority deportation cases, Perez, who moved to
California from Mexico City with his parents when he was 8 years old, is one of
thousands hoping to be deemed a low priority.(Laura A. Oda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday

Oakland Tribune My Word: Federal education funding cuts to decrease access for
nation's students

BYLINE: By Marcy Jackson My Word Oakland Tribune © Copyright 2011, Bay Area News
Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 574 words


Looming federal education funding cuts to the Pell Grant program will decrease
access to postsecondary education to students nationwide. Since 1963, Pell
Grants have given eligible students the opportunity to improve their career
options by getting a college education.

More than 400,000 students across the country will not receive a Pell Grant or
will receive less funding in 2012-13. The changes will affect all postsecondary
institutions from four-year and community colleges, to nonprofits as well as
adult continuing education institutions.

The cutbacks are expected to result in fewer student enrollments, more student
debt incurred and, consequently, more dropouts.

Pell Grant financial aid is available for low-income citizens, permanent
residents, refugees and people granted asylum.

The employment opportunities that result from Pell Grant student financial
assistance are immeasurable and are a benefit to the greater Oakland community.

The federal government's budget cuts to Pell Grant funding will dramatically
impact Oakland's youth without a high school diploma or equivalency and the
city's immigrant population.

With 40 percent of Oakland students not completing high school, the city with
the highest rate in Alameda County and the sixth-highest in the state, four out
of every 10 children who enroll in an Oakland high school fail to earn a degree.

Oakland's fast-growing immigrant population also stands to be at risk from these
funding reductions.

The city's nonprofit English Center, operating since 1977, has trained more than
9,000 people from more than 75 countries, giving them the opportunity to achieve
their fullest potential by improving their English language skills and also
providing career readiness training.

But that success will be more challenging with the approaching elimination of
the ability-to-benefit test, which allows students without a high school diploma
or secondary education equivalency an alternative avenue to demonstrate their
eligibility.

Without the option of passing a federally approved ability-to-benefit test,
students from other countries whose native language is not English will have
little chance of passing the high school equivalency exam or GED, because it is
offered only in English, Spanish, and French, no Asian languages.

This will create more hurdles for an estimated 65,000 immigrant students
nationwide in their effort to obtain English language proficiency that is
crucial to their success.

In short, Oakland's immigrants, without ability-to-benefit, will not be able to
receive a single dollar of federal financial aid -- even student loans -- for
their college coursework.

Students who are already in school or enroll in postsecondary college programs
this summer, before July 1, will be grandfathered in and thus will still qualify
for a Pell Grant before the changes take effect.

We must work together to ensure that the multinational Oakland student
population register now for classes by June 24 to meet the enrollment deadline
at most Bay Area postsecondary institutions.

The slashing of the Pell Grant program threatens the economic mobility of
Oakland's low-skilled adults and youths seeking postsecondary credentials.

To learn more about applying for a Pell Grant, go topell-grants.org . For more
information about enrolling, call the English Center at 510-836-6700.

Marcy Jackson is director of the English Center in Oakland. For more
information, visitwww.englishcenter.edu .

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Obama visibly irritated by confrontational questioner at news conference

BYLINE: By Karl Kahler kkahler@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 211 words


President Barack Obama, addressing a news conference on his new immigration
policy Friday, grew visibly annoyed when a man interrupted with a sharp
question.

"Why do you favor foreigners over American workers?" asked a man identified as
Neil Munro of the Daily Caller, a conservative news website in Washington.

A plainly irritated Obama said, "Excuse me, sir, it's not time for questions,
sir, not while I'm speaking."

As he was wrapping up his remarks, Obama looked at Munro and said: "And the
answer to your question, sir -- and the next time I'd prefer you let me finish
my statements before you ask that question -- is this is the right thing to do
for the American people."

Munro could still be seen interrupting him -- an unusual spectacle for a White
House news conference -- and Obama said, "I didn't ask for an argument. I'm
answering your question."

Obama did not take further questions and ignored the one asked as he walked
away: "What about American workers who are unemployed while you import
foreigners?"

The plan Obama outlined Friday would halt the deportation of young illegal
immigrants who came to the country as children, are in school or have graduated
or served in the armed forces, and have no criminal history.

Contact Karl Kahler at 408-920-5023.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Neil Munro(C) a reporter with the online publication The Daily Caller,
shouts a question interupting US President Barak Obama during an event in the
Rose Garden of the White House June 15, 2012 in Washington, DC. Obama spoke
about the Department of Homeland Security's announcement to not deport young
illegal immigrants based on their security risk and other criteria. AFP
PHOTO/Brendan SMIALOWSKIBRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AFP/GettyImages
WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 15: Neil Munro (L) of The Daily Caller interupts U.S.
President Barack Obama's remarks by asking a question for the second time at the
Rose Garden of the White House June 15, 2012 in Washington, DC. Obama said the
administration will stop deporting undocumented immigrants who had come to the
U.S. when they were at a young age. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)
WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 15: Neil Munro of the Daily Caller interrupts U.S.
President Barack Obama with questions as he delivered remarks about the
Department of Homeland Security's recent announcement about deportation of
illegal immigrants in the Rose Garden at the White House June 15, 2012 in
Washington, DC. With the DREAM Act unable to gain traction in Congress, Obama
announced that his administration would stop deporting some young people who
came to U.S. as children of illegal immigrants. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty
Images)
President Barack Obama responds as he is interrupted while announcing that his
administration will stop deporting and begin granting work permits to younger
illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as children and have since led
law-abiding lives, Friday, June 15, 2012, during a statement in the Rose Garden
of the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Immigration reprieve means thousands of new workers in California

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State; Local

LENGTH: 834 words


As thousands of young illegal immigrants consider openly applying for work
permits under a new Obama administration directive, they dream of jobs they
could never find in the shadows.

Eduardo Ruiz, of San Jose, has worked in a South Bay market since he was a
teenager, but the trained artist wants to animate 3-D movies and open his own
studio. Fiona Cruz, of Daly City, earned a biotechnology degree at UC Davis but
is blocked from working in a science lab. Alameda's Ju Hong bussed tables at a
sushi restaurant to pay his UC Berkeley bills but would rather be drafting
better government policies.

An estimated 350,000 children and young adult immigrants in California and more
than 1 million nationwide could qualify for protection from deportation and
temporary work permits through the new federal relief initiative announced
Friday, according to the Migration Policy Institute.

How their arrival into the formal job market will affect California's economy
and employment is a mystery to many economists because nothing quite like this
has ever happened before.

Many of those eligible are already working, but only because their employers
don't know or care that they are here illegally.

Giving them legal work permits -- renewable every two years -- will open up
previously unattainable careers to people like Ruiz, Cruz and Hong.

"My dream is to start my own studio. I'll have to hire people. That's job
creation, an investment," said Ruiz, a 29-year-old about to graduate from San
Jose State. "There will be a lot of young people graduating, starting
businesses, and that will create jobs," he said.

Not everyone is as optimistic.

The relief measure could also flood the California job market with newly legal
workers competing for scarce jobs with other workers, especially native-born
Americans who never went to college, said Steven Camarota, research director of
the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., which seeks to reduce
immigration.

"The benefit to the illegal immigrant himself might be significant," Camarota
said. "But that raises other concerns. Unemployment is so bad at the bottom end
of the labor market."

Well-paying fields that weeded out illegal workers because of strict background
checks -- such as in security or parcel services -- could suddenly get more
competitive, he said.

Statewide unemployment was 10.8 percent in May. More workers "could mean higher
unemployment, longer bouts of unemployment, lower wages, lower benefits,"
Camarota said.

Those are assumptions many economists don't hold since most studies show illegal
immigrants have a trivial effect on other workers, said UC Berkeley economist
David Card.

"For various reasons, however, the spillover effects of immigration capture a
disproportionate share of attention, particularly from critics of immigration,"
Card said in an email.

The directive's biggest effect will be on the beneficiaries themselves "who in
the best case might be able to apply for better jobs," he said.

Immigrant advocate Reshma Shamasunder is among those who believe empowering
undocumented youths with legal jobs and freedom from deportation benefits the
broader community.

"They'll be able to make money and increase their ability to buy a home, buy
products," said Shamasunder, director of the Oakland-based California Immigrant
Policy Center. "Young people are very smart investments for California."

Biotechnology major Cruz graduated from UC Davis in 2009 and aimed for a career
in stem cell research or regenerative medicine. Unable to work in those fields,
she chose activism after U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement sought to
deport her to the Philippines.

The 24-year-old won a deportation reprieve earlier this year but has not been
able to work.

The directive the Department of Homeland Security issued last week applies to
illegal immigrants under 30 who came to the United States before they turned 16.
They must either be high school graduates, currently in school or military
veterans.

The government won't begin taking applications until mid-August.

Hong, 22, graduated from UC Berkeley in May worried about his future. The South
Korea native is a longtime "Dreamer," part of a national network of undocumented
student activists who have been fighting for a federal Dream Act giving them a
path to citizenship.

This short-term administrative directive doesn't do that, but Hong said it is an
important step.

"I never thought the Obama administration would allow Dreamers to have work
permits," Hong said. "It's a huge victory."

The political science major imagines one day working for the government, the
same one he grew up fearing would deport him.

The government will not begin accepting applications for deportation relief and
work permits until mid-August.
People with questions about the new policy can call the hot lines for U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services at 800-375-5283 or U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement at 888-351-4024 during business hours or send an email
toEROPublicAdvocate@ice.dhs.gov .

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fiona Cruz,24, from Daly City, takes a lunch break during a summer
class she is taking at SOUL, School of Unity and Liberation, in Oakland, Calif.
on Monday, June 18, 2012. Cruz earned a bachelor's degree in biotechnology from
UC Davis but she's been unable to work in her chosen field because she is here
illegally, however; she may be able to get a work permit now under the new Obama
administration policy. (Laura A. Oda/Staff)
Students from left: David Buenrostro, Adrian James, and Jahel Ramos protest
outside the Obama campaign offices in Culver City, Calif., Thursday, June 14,
2012. The students demand that President Obama issue an executive order to stop
deportations of illegal immigrant students in favor of the DREAM Act,
Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors. In July 2011, California
Gov. Brown enacted the California DREAM Act, giving illegal immigrant students
access to private college scholarships for state schools. (AP Photo/Damian
Dovarganes)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 18, 2012 Monday

Deportation relief information

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 451 words


The nation's top immigration officials warned immigrant communities to be wary
of scams as the government prepares for an unprecedented measure to halt some
deportations.

"Be mindful and wary of the potential for exploitation, for notario fraud," said
Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, in a
conference call Monday.

The directive the Department of Homeland Security issued last week will grant
temporary deportation relief and work permits to illegal immigrants under 30 who
came to the United States before they turned 16, have lived here at least five
years and haven't committed serious crimes. The government has discretion in
whom it chooses for relief.

Unless their deportation is pending, those who are eligible will have to wait
until mid-August to apply for relief. Lawyers and immigrant advocates worry that
some immigration consultants, known by the Spanish word notarios, will prey on
immigrant families eager to benefit from the new policy.

Eduardo Ruiz of San Jose was among many students in the Bay Area waiting for
more details.

"We need more information. I don't think it's as easy as picking up the phone
and letting them know where I am," said the senior at San Jose State University
who turns 30 early next year. "If it's the way Obama said it's supposed to work,
I pretty much have less than a year to apply."

People such as Ruiz can begin collecting documentation that proves their
longtime residency and education, but should "beware of unscrupulous attorneys
and fraudulent notarios and offers that seem too good to be true," according to
a statement Monday from the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los
Angeles.

"We're very wary of notario fraud," said lawyer Jackie Shull-Gonzalez of San
Francisco's nonprofit Dolores Street Community Services. "Anytime there's a big
announcement like this there are private businesses trying to practice
immigration law and charging a lot of money even though they're not licensed."

It will be at least two months before the formal application process begins and
"people should not be rushing to apply," she said.

The Department of Homeland Security advises people with questions about the new
policy to call the hot lines for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services at
1-800-375-5283 or U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement at 1-888-351-4024
during business hours or send an e-mail toEROPublicAdvocate@ice.dhs.gov .

Golden Gate University is also hosting a free legal clinic for potential
beneficiaries from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. July 14 and July 28 at 536 Mission St., in
San Francisco.

For more information about the clinics, call Audrey Daniel at 415-543-9697,
extension 207, or emailadaniel@lccr.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday

Charles Krauthammer: Obama's immigration bombshell is naked lawlessness

BYLINE: By Charles Krauthammer

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 615 words


"With respect to the notion that I can just suspend deportations [of immigrants
brought here illegally as children] through executive order, that's just not the
case, because there are laws on the books that Congress has passed."

-- President Barack Obama, March 28, 2011

WASHINGTON -- Those laws remain on the books. They have not changed. Yet Obama
last week suspended these very deportations -- granting infinitely renewable
"deferred action" with attendant work permits -- thereby rewriting the law. And
doing precisely what he himself admits he is barred from doing.

Obama had tried to change the law. In late 2010, he asked Congress to pass the
DREAM Act, which offered a path to citizenship for hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants. Congress refused.

When pressed by Hispanic groups to simply implement the law by executive action,
Obama said it would be illegal.

Now he's gone and done it anyway. The election approaches and his margin is
slipping. He needs a big Hispanic vote. After all, who will call him on it? A
supine press? Congressional Democrats?

With a single Homeland Security Department memo, the immigration laws no longer
apply to 800,000 people. By what justification? Prosecutorial discretion, says
Janet Napolitano.

This is utter nonsense. Prosecutorial discretion is the application on a
case-by-case basis of considerations of extreme and extenuating circumstances.
The Napolitano memo is nothing of the sort. This is a fundamental rewriting of
the law.

Imagine: A Republican president submits to Congress a bill abolishing the
capital gains tax. Congress rejects it. The president then orders the IRS to
stop collecting capital gains taxes and declares anyone refusing to pay them
will suffer no fine penalty whatsoever. (Analogy first suggested by law
professor John Yoo.)

It would be a scandal. Why? Because unlike, for example, war powers, this is not
an area of perpetual executive-legislative territorial contention. Nor is
cap-gains, like the judicial status of unlawful enemy combatants, an area where
the law is silent or ambiguous. Capital gains is straightforward tax law. Just
as Obama's bombshell amnesty-by-fiat is a subversion of straightforward
immigration law.

It is shameful that Congressional Democrats should be applauding such a brazen
end-run. Of course it's smart politics. But, by Obama's own admission, it is
naked lawlessness.

As for policy, I sympathize with the obvious humanitarian motives of the DREAM
Act. But two important considerations are overlooked in concentrating
exclusively on the DREAM Act poster child, the straight-A valedictorian who
rescues kittens from trees.

First, offering potential illegal immigrants the prospect that, if they can
successfully hide long enough, their children will one day freely enjoy the
bounties of American life creates a huge incentive for yet more illegal
immigration.

Second, the case for compassion and fairness is hardly as clear-cut as
advertised. What about those who languish for years awaiting legal admission to
America? Their scrupulousness about the law could easily cost their children the
American future that illegal immigrants will have secured for theirs.

But whatever our honest and honorable disagreements about the policy, what holds
us together is a shared allegiance to our constitutional order. That's the
fundamental issue here. As Obama himself argued in rejecting the executive
action he has now undertaken: "America is a nation of laws, which means I, as
the president, am obligated to enforce the law. I don't have a choice about
that."

Except, apparently, when violating that solemn obligation serves his re-election
needs.

Charles Krauthammer is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2012 Monday

Asian-Americans question 'model minority' portrayal in new study

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; Local

LENGTH: 721 words


Knowing that Asian-Americans have done well in the United States instills pride
in Paresh Pakhare, who grew up middle-class in urban India but found a better
life here.

"I see in the culture, in Indian families, they have so much expectation for
their kids," said Pakhare, who manages the Holiday Inn in San Pablo.

San Pablo Councilwoman Kathy Chao-Rothberg knows more than 1 million
Asian-Americans live in poverty.

"They are the invisible population," said Chao-Rothberg, whose family fled
war-torn Laos when she was 7.

Those two realities went buzzing through Asian-American communities and social
media this week as a report came out depicting Asians as the new immigrants,
educated, prosperous, happy -- more so than most Americans.

In a nation where TV images of immigration depict desperate Mexicans and Central
Americans trying to hop a border fence, the report revealed that more immigrants
are coming from Asia than Latin America.

But the Pew Research Center portrayal of Asian-Americans as the nation's
best-adjusted group also disturbed many Asian-Americans who know that they -- or
relatives and friends -- don't fit that rubric. Many questioned the survey's
validity.

Sonny Le, who helped direct Bay Area outreach for the 2010 U.S. census, was
among those looking askance at the glowing depiction.

Le remembers the crowded San Francisco apartment his family landed in when they
fled Vietnam decades ago, and he questions whether a phone survey of
Asian-Americans would represent reality.

"We thought ourselves middle-class then, for whatever reason," said the Oakland
resident. "You're not going to find any newly arrived immigrant telling you
they're poor or lower-class. We don't do that."

Although the survey of some 3,500 people of Asian descent noted their great
diversity, the presentation of the group as overwhelmingly successful,
hardworking, happy and mostly unconcerned with discrimination echoed a
persistent stereotype, some said.

"Our greatest concern with the study was in its kind of monolithic portrayal of
Asian-Americans," said Dan Ichinose, who directs the demographic unit of the Los
Angeles-based Asian Pacific American Legal Center. "We're constantly facing this
perception of our community as the model minority, but what we know through
research is that there's significant diversity."

Ichinose cited his group's report last year that exposed disparities under the
Asian-American umbrella: Hmong Americans, many of whom live in the Central
Valley, have the lowest incomes of any ethnic group nationwide. One of the
nation's fastest-growing Asian immigrant groups -- Bangladeshis -- is also among
the poorest. One in four Pakistani-Americans is uninsured. Asian-Americans are
twice as likely as whites and blacks to have not seen a doctor in at least five
years.

Pew spokeswoman Vidya Krishnamurthy said researchers were nuanced in their
157-page report, most of it based on a telephone survey conducted in eight
languages.

"Asian-Americans are a distinctive group, and the population is by no means a
monolith," reads one early passage.

Still, advocates were critical of everything from the provocative title -- "The
Rise of Asian Americans" -- to the survey conclusions that Asian-Americans are
wealthier, more educated and "more satisfied with their lives, finances and the
direction of the country, and they place more value than other Americans do on
marriage, parenthood, hard work and career success."

Many immigrants, including Latinos, emphasize work and family values, but
blogger Calvin Ho said that doesn't get acknowledged in sweeping depictions of
Asian-Americans reaching success by their own bootstraps. Pew's report in April
that 75 percent of Latinos believe most people can get ahead if they work hard
drew much less attention than the new study finding 69 percent of
Asian-Americans believe the same.

The UCLA sociology graduate student said recognizing such complexity matters
because "the model minority myth has been used to pit Asian-Americans against
other minorities."

The Pew survey pegs Asian-Americans as having the highest household incomes of
any group, but the Asian Pacific American Legal Center said that's in part
because many Asian-American families have several workers living under the same
roof.

When measured individually, Asian-Americans have lower incomes than whites.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Prothsan Gurung, 9, right, of Nepalese descent and of Oakland, lines up
for food during world refugee day at San Antonio Park in Oakland, Calif. on
Friday, June 22, 2012. A recent report revealed that more immigrants are coming
from Asia than Latin America. Oakland hosts many Bhutanese, Burmese and
Cambodian refugees. (Jane Tyska/Staff)
Karenni refugees from Burma (Myanmar) Mary Naw, 9, left, Sue Meh, 10, Poe Meh,
11, and Bae Meh, 10, left to right, wait to perform a dance during world refugee
day at San Antonio Park in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, June 22, 2012. A recent
report revealed that more immigrants are coming from Asia than Latin America.
Oakland hosts many Bhutanese, Burmese and Cambodian refugees. (Jane Tyska/Staff)

The Karenni group Ree Meh, composed of Burmese refugees, performs during world
refugee day at San Antonio Park in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, June 22, 2012. A
recent report revealed that more immigrants are coming from Asia than Latin
America. Oakland hosts many Bhutanese, Burmese and Cambodian refugees. (Jane
Tyska/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 28, 2012 Thursday

Letters to the Editor: Recession not a time to pander on immigration

BYLINE: Valley Journal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1166 words


Recession not a time to pander on immigration

The president continues to reinterpret the law by ignoring Congress and his own
statement in 2011, that he could not suspend deportation through executive
order. That was then, from a president whose many pronouncements have
unpredictable expiration dates.

We are reminded that we are a nation of immigrants whose definition becomes
blurred when immigration laws are not enforced.

We are also a nation of laws, that is until President Obama decides otherwise,
demonstrating his contempt for the rule of law.

The Obama administration is again pandering with its latest political move to
bolster the president's re-election campaign by adding millions of illegal young
workers to the legal workforce of Americans of all ages and veterans returning
home.

But, where are those jobs?

The president prefers to create new crises, insisting on keeping his failed
policies moving "Forward" to the point of creating the worst recession since the
last depression.

U.S. presidents don't whine, they Lead!

Irene Lynch

San Ramon

What message was Obama trying to send?

President Obama recently awarded Dolores Huerta with a Presidential Medal of
Freedom.

Is he trying to showcase her as a role model for American women, or is he just
letting everyone know that he appreciates that "birds of a feather flock
together? I'll be very interested as to how your paper answers that question.

Ray Greer

Danville

'Passionate' assertions win argument in end

While Mr. Entwistle (June 5) may have erred in flatly stating that the ranter of
his disdain was showing "boorish cynicism," it should be remembered that the
rant in question was one of the most vacuous of the year. Most of the other
comments, while occasionally florid, were dead-on.

Mr. Masuoka (June 18), properly brings Entwistle's writing style to attention,
but then inexplicably misquotes him and President Obama.

The president never said that the wealthy had to give up their corporate jets.
What he said was that tax subsidies for corporate jets should be just as much on
the table as student loans and food stamps.

Masuoka then blows a huge puff of smoke when he claims that Obama would never
admit that wealthy Americans (the president included) benefit more from the tax
code than most of the rest of us. As a matter of fact, Obama has said exactly
that. That is one of the reasons he wants to change it.

In sum, Entwistle's assertions, while "passionate and exquisite" (Masuoka's
description), were more accurate than the less florid, but "condescending" and
"ad nauseam" conjectures of Masuoka.

William Youngblood

Danville

Brown's tax hike really just for teachers

In a recent Wall Street Journal editorial it was pointed out that there is a
"dirty little secret" surrounding Gov. Brown's proposed tax increase
proposition.

Contrary to the governor's goal of using the revenue generated by the tax
increase to improve education, the proceeds will instead go to the teachers
union to fund pension and benefit plans.

Wouldn't it be nice if voters were given the real facts surrounding this
proposition? Apparently, few if any dollars raised will be used to reduce class
size, retain teachers or keep schools open. Can't help but wonder why the local
media hasn't reported this information.

Charles Raymond Johnston

Alamo

Health care editorial hit nail on the head

I enjoyed Jeffrey Pfeffer's editorial about health care for all. He began with
his argument about how many people died because the blood banks didn't want to
spend money screening for the AIDS virus. The same is true for hepatitis C --
which appeared slightly before AIDS. Most of the hepatitis C came back to us
from our wars in Southeast Asia; yet screening for hep C didn't happen for many
years after it appeared. So there are millions of Americans walking around with
hepatitis C who don't even know they have it.

There's an excellent film on the almost criminal lack of concern by the blood
banks and government officials called "And the Band Played On." This was the
period when Reagan defunded so many government agencies, including or especially
those having to do with the health and welfare of the people. This wonderful
film showed the struggle that the Centers for Disease Control went through
trying to get funding or even to get officials to do anything at all about this
disease. It's no wonder that so many people have contracted AIDS and hepatitis
C.

Pfeffer is correct. We blatantly ignore the fact that many Americans are dying
due to lack of health care or inadequate health care while throwing money and
time at matters that do not improve the well-being of our citizens.

Paulette Kenyon

Pleasanton

Budget hawks should look at nuke spending

As millions across this nation continue to suffer economic hardship, all levels
of government are faced with budget shortfalls, often facing agonizing choices
over which critical social, educational and economic support programs to cut.

Meanwhile shrill pundits decry "wasteful" government. Yet how many of these
self-styled fiscal conservatives will take a whack at our bloated nuclear
weapons budget?

From 2000 to 2012 the number of nuclear warheads in our stockpile decreased from
10,600 in 2000 to 4,700 today, a good thing. Nevertheless, the nuclear weapons
budget went up, and this trend is projected to continue.

The current (FY2013) $7.6 billion budget request amounts to $1.7 million per
warhead, nearly four times what we paid to maintain each warhead in the
stockpile in 2000.

Physicist Robert Civiak, a former nuclear weapons program budget examiner,
suggests that common-sense budget reductions of $1.5 billion would bring us to
2000 spending levels (adjusted for inflation) yet keep the stockpile safe and
reliable.http://www.trivalleycares.org/new/FY2013BudgetAnalysis.pdf ). Ask Sens.
Feinstein and Boxer and your U.S. representative to cut the real waste in
government.

Stephanie Ericson

Dublin

Lab should monitor more for radiation

As summer approaches, I couldn't help but imagine myself lying by the pool side
soaking up sun. I recently learned some disheartening news that makes me rethink
this.

The Livermore Lab is responsible for a toxic groundwater plume, which extends to
the community pool on Charlotte Way, which they plan to clean up soon. While I
think this cleanup is a great thing, the ground has been tested and found to be
contaminated with a radioactive element, plutonium.

As construction happens on a pipeline to clean the plume, there could be
plutonium in the dust. Livermore Lab has so far ignored the idea of installing
continuous air monitoring to detect radionuclides at the construction zone.

One microscopic particle of plutonium that is inhaled can damage cells, causing
cancer and other illnesses. Not only will this pipeline be located near the
pool, but also near an elementary school, apartment complexes occupied by
children, and Big Trees Park.

Livermore Lab, I beg you to please rethink your stance on a continuous air
monitoring system for radiation

Alison Forrest

Livermore

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

June 30 Talk Back

BYLINE: Talk Back: Letters from our readers Oakland Tribune © Copyright 2011,
Bay Area News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1153 words


President's action shows leadership

President Barack Obama's executive order to halt deportations of immigrants
brought to the United States as children demonstrates leadership.

Allowing these people to obtain permits, legally work and, therefore, pay income
tax benefits both them and our nation. The president correctly called this
change "the right thing to do" to make immigration policy "more fair, more
efficient and more just."

No one can show any benefit in deporting some 800,000 people who graduated from
American high schools and are eager to contribute to the country as far as the
law allows.

Since even immigration foes propose no means of doing this, apparently they want
these American-raised young people to live as a permanent underclass.

The same congressional Republicans who accuse Obama of misusing his executive
authority have raised obstructionism to unprecedented heights. Only a GOP-led
filibuster prevented the DREAM Act from becoming law in 2010.

Mitt Romney criticizes the timing but can't bring himself to say whether he
approves of the decision.

While his critics bicker and dodge tough questions, the president is leading.

Matt Johanson

Castro Valley

President cannot give such an order

I disagree with the president's executive order on immigration. An executive
order by the commander in chief applies only to troops, not civilians.

Only Congress can make laws. In 1948, President Harry Truman integrated the
troops. It took an act of Congress to integrate civilians.

Only a dictator could give orders to civilians. At last count, I believe we are
still a republic.

Charles N. Wilkins

Fremont

Good political theater but not much else

President Barack Obama's executive order on immigration was great political
theater but poor public policy.

He caught the Republicans flat-footed (his real objective) but did little for
the targeted immigrants. How many of the affected group will step forward
(thereby admitting their parents are here illegally) and then expose themselves
to deportation if the executive order is lifted in the future? Very few.

He knows that, and that is why he thinks the backlash from his union supporters
will be limited. If he really wanted to fix the immigration problem but still
put heat on the Republicans he should have reached out to Sen. Marco Rubio with
an offer to work together on a modified DREAM Act.

As he has done so often in the past, Obama claims this action was needed because
the Republicans have been obstructionists. This lack of leadership is the
biggest problem in his presidency.

A good leader is capable of leading his friends and his opponents. This
president set the divisive tone by ramrodding Obamacare through Congress,
continually blaming others for his shortcomings and taking unilateral actions
like this executive order, administrative decrees and recess appointments.

William M. Lau

Lafayette

Finally a decision that will help many people

The executive order of President Barack Obama to halt the deportation of
immigrants brought here as children is a cause for celebration. Finally, the
innocents caught in the crossfire of immigration will no longer be deported and
persecuted for something they did not choose.

These people were brought to the United States as children and grew up here. The
United States is their home. Deporting them back to where they were born, to a
strange place they have never known, is more a case of displacement rather than
deportation.

I applaud Obama in his executive decision in not only helping these people but
also our country. By allowing these people to remain in their home and legally
work and pay taxes, the country benefits.

As for opposition to the decision, is it really a case of immigration for them
or xenophobia? There aren't any known benefits in deporting these hard working
and innocent people.

While Republicans still continue to hinder Obama's authority, he has finally
been able to make an executive decision that will help many people and our
country.

Reyna Garcia

Castro Valley

Last-ditch effort to save his job

The president's executive order to trounce on the Constitution at the behest of
many and appease few appears to define many other aspects of his term.

Juxtapose the earlier statement of the president, "Congress has imposed laws,"
to the June 15 executive order, " ... it is the right thing to do."

The flip-flop illustrates why so many are frustrated with the leadership
qualities of the president. Leaders take decisions and stand firmly behind them.
The president is merely playing politics, as he did with the same-sex marriage
debate.

Thus, it appears, in the case of immigration, a last-ditch effort to save his
presidency.

Rick Rodriguez

Danville

Obama had no right to make such decision

It is not OK to circumvent the Constitution and the checks and balances of our
system. He has no right to do as he will. He is not a king or emperor.

Diane Jager

Bay Point

Obama's order wrong, Romney position lame

No, I don't agree, but Mitt Romney's lame explanation on his position about
illegal immigration is not any different from President Barack Obama's same lame
excuse for not enforcing the immigration law: "Because it's the right thing to
do."

This is a baseless and twisted logic on why the law should be overlooked in the
case of minors who were brought illegally into the country, instead of seeing
this for what it is: just another wedge to keep avoiding the enforcement of the
law, but, most importantly, to keep on chipping on the labor law that prohibits
illegal scabs from working in this country.

As for the Republicans, supposedly opposing Obama's policy on this issue, we
should only remember Ronald Reagan's amnesty, George W. Bush's compassion policy
and the lame response from Romney.

It is not that Obama, or Romney, are afraid of losing Latino votes -- illegals
don't vote. What they're afraid of is losing the financial support of the
corporations who love cheap labor.

Romney's Bain Capital specialized in buying companies in financial trouble to
dismantle them, firing, in most cases, union workers and then reopening the
operation somewhere else with illegal scabs at a third of the previous wages.

In some cases, the operation has been restarted at the same facility after a
period of time allowed for the disbanding of the previous workforce.

Leo T. West

San Leandro

Sadly, government is destroying nation

I absolutely do not agree with President Barack Obama's executive order on
immigration. This is just his sneaky way of doing the DREAM Act.

These people are here illegally, just like their parents. They are breaking the
law and all of them should be deported back to their own countries.

Our government seems to care more about the illegals and foreigners than the
American people. The government needs to stop supporting the illegals and start
thinking more about this country's children and elderly. It's sad to say, but
our government is destroying America.

Patricia Hofer

San Leandro

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Contra Costa Times Saturday Forum

BYLINE: Letters from our readers Contra Costa Times © Copyright 2011, Bay Area
News Group

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1211 words


Obama's last-ditch effort on immigration

President Barack Obama's executive order to trounce on the Constitution at the
behest of many and appease few appears to define many other aspects of his term.

Juxtapose the earlier statement of the president, "Congress has imposed laws,"
to the June 15 executive order, " ... it is the right thing to do."

The flip-flop illustrates why so many are frustrated with the leadership
qualities of the president. Leaders take decisions and stand firmly behind them.
President Obama is merely playing politics as he did with the same-sex marriage
debate.

Thus, it appears, in the case of immigration, a last-ditch effort to save his
presidency.

Rick Rodriguez

Danville

President Obama showing leadership

President Barack Obama's executive order to halt deportations of immigrants
brought to the United States as children demonstrates leadership.

Permitting these people to obtain permits, legally work and, therefore, pay
income tax, benefits them and our nation. The president correctly called this
change "the right thing to do" to make immigration policy "more fair, more
efficient and more just."

No one can show any benefit in deporting some 800,000 people who graduated from
American high schools and are eager to contribute to the country as far as the
law allows. Since even immigration foes propose no means of deporting them,
apparently they want these American-raised young people to live as a permanent
underclass.

The same congressional Republicans who accuse Obama of misusing his executive
authority have raised obstructionism to unprecedented heights. Only a GOP-led
filibuster prevented the DREAM Act from becoming law in 2010. Mitt Romney
criticizes the timing but can't bring himself to say whether he approves of the
decision.

While his critics bicker and dodge tough questions, the president is leading.

Matt Johanson

Castro Valley

Obama violated his authority

We live in the United States, a country based on laws, which honors the
Constitution. That document has stood the test of time for more than 236 years,
and our elected leaders give an oath to uphold and defend it.

The authority to make laws is granted only to the legislative branch of
government. The executive branch has no authority to make laws. To become a law,
a bill must pass the House and Senate before presentation to the president for
his signature.

President Barack Obama, by using executive order to create a law when Congress
has been unable to agree on pending legislation, violates the constitutional
authority granted to him.

If he doesn't like the way Congress is progressing, he cannot circumvent the
process. A president should use his office to advance legislation by inviting
the congressional leaders of all parties to the White House for a round-table
discussion of the issues and to take a leadership role in the proceedings.

To allow a president to make rules with impunity is to allow this country to be
governed by a dictatorial type government.

The Constitution grants only limited enumerated powers to government, and those
that are not listed are reserved for the states and the people.

Dr. Steven Hayes

Alamo

Order is cause for celebration

President Barack Obama's executive order to halt the deportation of immigrants
brought here as children is a cause for celebration.

Finally, the innocent people caught in the crossfire of immigration will no
longer be deported and persecuted for something they did not choose. These
people who were brought to the United States grew up here. The United States is
their home.

Deporting them back to where they were born, to a strange place they have never
known, is more a case of displacement rather than deportation.

I applaud Obama for his decision. Not only will it help these people, it also
will help our country. By allowing these people to remain in their homes and
legally work and pay taxes, the country benefits.

As for opposition to the decision: Is it really a case of immigration for them
or xenophobia? There aren't any known benefits in deporting these hardworking,
innocent people.

While Republicans continually hinder Obama's authority, he has finally been able
to make an executive decision that will help many people and our country.

Reyna Garcia

Castro Valley Reyna is a senior at Castro Valley High School.

Executive order a good decision

President Barack Obama's immigration policy opponents have no sound sense of
practical priorities.

The executive order rightly recognizes the morally guiltless children of illegal
immigrants are constructive contributors to our society and are not, as Obama's
detractors suggest, serious scofflaws.

Partisan conservative critics calling for radically reduced rule should be
applauding the government's good decision to properly prioritize our nation's
finite funds focused for immigration implementation. Yet, incredulously, they're
demanding the administration leave unfulfilled its fiscal fiduciary duty.

Right-wingers' railing against President Obama's astute assimilation approach to
those relatively rare, yet blameless, undocumented children is the height of
hypocrisy.

Ed Chainey

Richmond

Executive order poor public policy

President Barack Obama's executive order on immigration was great political
theater but poor public policy.

He caught the Republicans flat-footed (his real objective) but did little for
the targeted immigrants. How many of the affected group will step forward
(thereby admitting their parents are here illegally) and then expose themselves
to deportation if the executive order is lifted in the future? Very few.

Obama knows that, and that is why he thinks the backlash from his union
supporters will be limited. If he really wanted to fix the immigration problem
but still put heat on the Republicans, he should have reached out to Sen. Marco
Rubio with an offer to work together on a modified DREAM Act.

Obama claims this action was needed because the Republicans have been
obstructionists. This lack of leadership is the biggest problem in his
presidency. A good leader is capable of leading his friends and his opponents.

Obama set the divisive tone by ramrodding Obamacare through Congress,
continually blaming others for his shortcomings and taking unilateral actions
such as executive order, administrative decrees and recess appointments.

William M. Lau

Lafayette

Enforce the law, without exception

I visited the White House website Tuesday to read the text of President Barack
Obama's executive order on immigration; no text was listed.

What I found was a letter from Janet Napolitano, secretary of Homeland Security,
and the president's blueprint, Building a 21st Century Immigration System.

Two of the reasons given to relax immigration standards on some of these illegal
immigrants are that we have educated some of these children, at taxpayer
expense, or they have served in the U.S. military. Two wrongs do not make a
right -- or a privilege.

The president and Homeland Security see these people as low priority for
immigration enforcement and want exceptions to the law.

We either have immigration laws or we do not. When exceptions are made, laws are
weakened and democracy diminishes. Laws become subjective rather than objective.

Maintain democracy and the republic. Enforce the law without exceptions.

Jon Barsanti

Livermore

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Realtors discuss growing international purchases

BYLINE: By Rose Meily, for Silicon Valley Community Newspapers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Los Gatos; News; Local

LENGTH: 678 words


Low prices and the relative weakness of the dollar are attracting international
buyers to property in the U.S. According to the National Association of
Realtors' 2012 Profile of International Home Buying Activity, total residential
international sales in the U.S. for the past year ending March 2012 equaled
$82.5 billion, up from $66.4 billion in 2011.

Total international sales were evenly split between non-resident foreigners and
recent immigrants. International buyers bought homes throughout the country, but
four states accounted for 51 percent of the purchases:Florida, California, Texas
and Arizona.

California came in second to Florida, accounting for 11 percent of foreign
purchases. International buyers from Canada, China (The People's Republic of
China, including Hong Kong), Mexico, India and the United Kingdom accounted for
55 percent of all international transactions.

A program jointly presented by the Women's Council of Realtors Santa Clara
Valley Chapter and the Silicon Valley Association of Realtors recently discussed
the growing foreign interest in Silicon Valley properties. Jennifer Tasto and
Juliana Lee, who work with foreign buyers, said Asian buyers tend to purchase
property in California because of the proximity to their home countries, the
presence of relatives and friends, and climate. Many immigrants view home
ownership as one way to get established in this country.

"Land is a premium in some countries," said Tasto.

In some countries, home ownership is not an option. "In China, the government
owns and controls the land. True home ownership, as we know it, is not
possible," explained Lee. "When foreigners consider buying property here, they
often ask if the land is included."

According to the national group, many foreign buyers still experience financing
challenges when trying to obtain a mortgage, including lack of a credit history,
meeting mortgage requirements, taxes, insurance and immigration laws. Ken Chan
of HSBC said requirements of mortgage lending are different for new immigrants
and foreign nationals (tourists).

For many foreign clients, Chan said credit and income are not a problem. "The
issue of all issues is the large deposits in their account," said Chan. "Many
Chinese clients are investment-minded and regularly transfer money in and out of
their accounts. This is something the underwriters don't like, and a sure way to
get flagged."

Chan advised agents to educate their foreign clients on how home purchases are
done in the U.S. "Make sure they get their account in order before applying for
a mortgage," said Chan.

Tools that help increase exposure of U.S. properties in global markets are
available. Janet Case, CEO of Proxio, explained the in-

ternational multiple listing service makes U.S. residential listings available
to buyers across the globe. Proxio currently has 2.8 million listings, with more
than 400 fields translated in different languages. It provides daily money
conversions and metric and imperial conversions.

Case noted the international MLS not only increases exposure of U.S. properties
in global markets, but also connects agents with each other. She likened Proxio
to a LinkedIn for agents, a professional network that markets listings, as well
as agents.

The growing interest in the purchase of U.S. property by international buyers
and investors has prompted local real estate professionals to expand
international operations. The market is a niche in itself, but there is much to
learn. Tasto said the National Association of Realtors' certified international
property specialist designation prepares agents to work with international
buyers by focusing on culture, exchange rates, investment trends and legal
issues. Tasto is forming a Silicon Valley Association of Realtors Global
Business Council. She said the local trade association plans to offer the CIPS
designation course and other global real estate courses in the near future.

Information in this column is presented by the Silicon Valley Association of
Realtors atwww.silvar.org . Send questions tormeily@silvar.org .

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Immigrants welcome relief from deportation

BYLINE: By CORINA MARTINEZ Mosaic Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 888 words


Grecia Neves of San Jose was scanning the morning news online while chatting on
the phone with her husband. Suddenly an item leapt out at her: President Barack
Obama was changing federal policy -- a change that would protect her from
deportation, a fear she's had since she was 12 years old.

"I was so emotional," she said. "My voice was almost gone from crying and
screaming."

On June 15, the president announced a new policy to protect undocumented
students from deportation and grant two-year renewable work permits. Across the
country, his executive order spawned sighs of relief and shouts of joy from the
nearly 800,000 young people like Neves.

Neves, 23, who asked her real name not be used to protect her family, came to
the country when she was 12 from Morelos, Mexico. She's studying physiology at
Evergreen Valley College. For years, she's lived cautiously in the shadows.

Obama's announcement follows the California Dream Act, signed by Gov. Jerry
Brown on Oct. 8, which allows undocumented students to receive private financial
aid for higher education and state Cal Grants

"There is a lot of optimism in the community. People are very hopeful," said
Jazmin Segura, the federal policy advocate at Siren, a San Jose immigration
advocacy group.

Juan, 17, an incoming freshman at San Jose State University whose name has been
changed for his protection, welcomed the new laws. Like many other undocumented
students, he came to the U.S. as a child. He was brought from his native state,
Michoacan, Mexico, by his mother when he was only a few months old.

He was admitted to the University of San Francisco, but did not enroll because
he could not get financial aid without a Social Security number.

The California Dream Act will make it easier for students like Juan to get
private and state aid, but not federal aid. "It's going to help out a lot with
tuition. My mom and I were both happy," he said.

It wasn't easy getting the act passed in California, and so far a national Dream
Act has not passed, Segura said, despite intense lobbying.

How Obama's new policy will be administered is still unclear. The U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Service has 60 days to create an application
process.

Lifting the fear of deportation changes how undocumented students view
education. "I was thinking, man, I'm in a tough spot because when I graduate
college I'll have a bachelor's in whatever I decide to get, but who would hire
me?" said Juan.

With the election around the corner, critics say the proposal was only a
political move, but those whom it affects said they don't care about Obama's
motivations. "If that's what he does I don't mind. He's helping people," said
Juan.

They still have worries about the new laws. "If Congress decides they don't like
it and makes a new rule, passes it, and goes against what Obama is trying to do
then I'm worried," Juan said. "If [Mitt] Romney gets elected I doubt we're going
to get much help from him." Immigrants also worry that even if they get a work
permit, it might not be renewed in two years.

But opponents see the Dream Act and Obama's new proposal as giving amnesty to
lawbreakers, and only encouraging more illegal immigration.

Obama is "thumbing his nose at the rule of law," said Jim Gilchrist, founder of
the Minutemen Project, which opposes illegal immigration. "I do not hate
Mexicans or people of color.

Children brought under no fault of their own should return to their homeland and
apply for legal status. It seems unrealistic, but it's the law." Gilchrist said
he is a "passionate supporter of the rule of law and a law enforcement
advocate." He said the Minutemen do not recognize Obama's new policy on
deportation. "We will only abide by laws passed by Congress, and with
overwhelming support of Congress, not by the signature by a president who is
trying to pander to get more voters to the Democratic Party."

The Minutemen see the issue as one of national identity. Gilchrist said, "If we
literally let the populations of Mexico and Latin America transfer themselves
here we will rapidly become a Latin American nation, which is going to compete
with our traditional culture, our language."

Not everyone thinks this way, especially those who were brought here when they
were younger and consider themselves Americans now. Segura said, "They've been
wanting to contribute to this economy and this country and they consider
themselves to be Americans. These small steps have been significant in their
lives because of that." Juan said, "My dad has been living here for more than 20
years. We have a house, we have a dog, and five people in the family. We have
cars."

The new law won't help all undocumented people, however.

Jose Librojo of Daly City, who came here from the Philippines when he was 15,
has fought his deportation for more than a year. But he doesn't qualify for
Obama's new policy because, at 32, he missed its cut-off age by two years. "I'm
happy for all the Dreamers out there, but unfortunately I didn't make the cut."

Neves plans to transfer to University of California-Irvine because of the Dream
Act and Obama's relief. She can now go to school full time and qualify for
financial aid.

"My mom kept asking why I was putting so much of my time into school when I
couldn't even get a good job after, and I told her: 'Something will happen!'"
And something did.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

Dip into the details of the 'anti-Arizona' immigration bill

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 128 words


Assembly Bill 1081, "The Trust Act," would require California law enforcement
officers dealing with an illegal immigrant to keep no one on an

immigration hold who is eligible for release from criminal custody, unless both
of these conditions are satisfied:

The individual has been convicted of a

serious or violent felony, according to a criminal-background check or
documentation provided by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The

continued detention on an immigration hold would not violate any federal, state
or local law -- or any local policy.

It also would require any local government detaining a person on an immigration
hold to adopt a plan guarding against:

Detaining a U.S. citizen

Racial profiling

Discouraging crime victims and witnesses from reporting crimes.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

An in-depth look at Obama's immigration reprieve

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 267 words


Who's eligible? Anyone brought to the country illegally before they turned 16
and are 30 or younger; graduated from high school or are in school or in the
military; lived here continuously for at least five years; and haven't committed
"significant" crimes.

What's a "significant" crime? Anyone convicted of a felony, three or more
misdemeanors or any "significant" misdemeanor is likely to be barred from
relief. But what's a "significant" misdemeanor? No one is certain but many
lawyers suspect it will include drug possession, driving under the influence,
assault and theft. Also barred are people who present a "public safety threat,"
which is not limited to criminal convictions and could include any arrest, gang
activity or juvenile offenses. Decisions about who qualifies are under the
government's discretion.

What do beneficiaries get? A work permit that can be renewed every two years,
and "deferred action," which means they won't be deported.

What they don't get: Legal permanent residency or a path to citizenship; access
to most federal public benefits.

Could a new president reverse the initiative? Yes, but he probably won't, most
lawyers say. It is a "real but very remote risk," said San Francisco immigration
lawyer Mark Silverman. "No one knows the answer to this question, but I think
that an incoming Republican administration would conclude that it would be a
serious long-term political mistake" to deport young people applying for or
granted relief under a previous administration.

Sources: National Lawyers Guild; U.S. Department of Homeland Security; Immigrant
Legal Resource Center

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

Uncertainty, perils as Bay Area youths seek deportation reprieve

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1236 words


As they await word on how the Obama administration will grant the work permits
it promised to hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants, Lupe Pacheco
and Efrain Molina think they have everything their daughter needs in a suitcase
under the bed.

They've saved 12 years of school report cards, every yearbook, every medical
record, everything that can prove their daughter, Laila, has been living here
uninterrupted since she was a toddler.

"They're excited. It's a big deal," said Laila Molina, 18. "They just want me to
be as protected as possible."

The promise of living without fear of deportation is spurring hopeful, nervous
anticipation in young immigrants and their families across the Bay Area who are
packing community meetings, phoning attorneys and relatives, scouring closets
for documents and forecasting presidential politics as they try to make sense of
how the new policy will affect them.

"There's so much confusion about who will get it and who won't," Efrain Molina
said.

His only child is an incoming student at UC Santa Cruz and one of about 350,000
young Californians brought to the country illegally as children who could be
helped by the new federal directive President Barack Obama announced last month
-- as long as they haven't done anything to make themselves ineligible.

The Department of Homeland Security outlined the basics of the plan in a memo
but is not expected to release details until the policy takes effect next month.
In the interim, guesswork must suffice.

"Be careful with driving. Don't drive if you don't have a license. And if you
get a DUI, you'll be ineligible for the program," instructed Laura Polstein, a
lawyer at the Oakland-based nonprofit Centro Legal de la Raza, as she led one of
the dozens of free information sessions nonprofit organizations are hosting in
the Bay Area before Aug. 15, the day the policy is expected to take effect.

Laila Molina's parents are too old to be helped by the policy, which is only for
people 30 or younger, but they think it will benefit the daughter they brought
across the border and raised in a typical suburban U.S. environment in
Pleasanton. Pacheco, a fixture at school events, has been meticulously
collecting and collating a record of her daughter's childhood.

"She didn't know this would happen one day, but she's always really on me for
school," the daughter said. "She's very attentive, protective, responsible. All
up in everybody's business in school."

Efrain Molina has his worries: What if the promise of a reprieve is just a
flimsy political ploy, one that could be reversed if GOP presidential candidate
Mitt Romney beats Obama in November?

That's the question the construction worker asked to a Spanish-speaking crowd
gathered in a downtown Oakland law library to learn more about the policy.

Romney has criticized the Obama administration's new directive -- an internal,
short-term policy that offers temporary protection but no permanent legal
residency or citizenship -- and said he would "supersede" it with a long-term
solution, but hasn't said how. Most lawyers say nullifying thousands of
reprieves is technically possible but politically unlikely.

About 64 percent of likely voters approve of the policy, with Democrats,
independents and Latinos supporting it in wide margins and Republicans opposing
it, according to a recent Bloomberg poll.

Still, many families remain skeptical after years of stalled immigration reform
and heated debate.

"Because it came out of the blue, and was so sudden, they think it will suddenly
disappear," said Karina Gutierrez, 24, who hopes for a reprieve and has been
helping other families learn about the plan as an intern for Catholic Charities
in Richmond.

Some already know they're out of luck. A 24-year-old East Bay woman who spoke on
the condition of anonymity asked two lawyers if she could benefit and both said
probably not, because of her history.

She was previously deported to Mexico and so has a "permanent bar" preventing
her legal return to the United States. She sneaked back in when she was 19 to
finish her university education and obtain a master's degree.

"I was coming back to the only home I ever knew," said the woman, who has lived
in California since she was 2 and wants to be a doctor. She's congratulating
friends whose lives will get easier soon, but can't help feeling anguish that
she'll be left out.

Many who are eligible are being especially cautious this summer.

Felony convictions and some misdemeanors will block otherwise eligible youths
from getting help from the new policy, and lawyers warn it could be dangerous
for those with blemished records to apply.

Immigrant advocates are also warning against scam artists who are already
promising to get people relief, now, for a fee.

Some lawyers are advising eligible youths to wait until after the November
election to apply. Better to stay in the shadows several months more than to
announce themselves to a government that could later deport them.

Grecia Lopez, of San Jose, and her siblings won't be waiting that long. They are
gathering immunization and school records to be ready when more guidance comes
next month.

"Finally, we're going to have an opportunity to do things right, to be able to
work properly, go to school, be able to have a California ID," Lopez said. "I
don't have to hide anymore."

Contact Matt O'Brien at 510-293-2465.

A look at the directive

Who's eligible?

Anyone brought to the country illegally before they turned 16 and are 30 or
younger; graduated from high school or are in school or in the military; lived
here continuously for at least five years; and haven't committed "significant"
crimes.

What's a "significant" crime?

Anyone convicted of a felony, three or more misdemeanors or any "significant"
misdemeanor is likely to be barred from relief. But what's a "significant"
misdemeanor? No one is certain but many lawyers suspect it will include drug
possession, driving under the influence, assault and theft. Also barred are
people who present a "public safety threat," which is not limited to criminal
convictions and could include any arrest, gang activity or juvenile offenses.
Decisions about who qualifies are under the government's discretion.

What do beneficiaries get?

A work permit that can be renewed every two years, and "deferred action," which
means they won't be deported.

What they don't get:

Legal permanent residency or a path to citizenship; access to most federal
public benefits.

Could a new president reverse the initiative?

Yes, but he probably won't, most lawyers say. It is a "real but very remote
risk," said San Francisco immigration lawyer Mark Silverman. "No one knows the
answer to this question, but I think that an incoming Republican administration
would conclude that it would be a serious long-term political mistake" to deport
young people applying for or granted relief under a previous administration.

Sources: National Lawyers Guild; U.S. Department of Homeland Security; Immigrant
Legal Resource Center


Who benefits?

The Migration Policy Institute estimates nearly 1.4 million people nationwide,
including 350,000 in California, could be eligible for relief from deportation
and get work permits.
Younger than 15, currently in school: 500,000
15 and older (K-12): 300,000
High school graduate, GED: 370,000
College enrollee or college graduate (two-year degree or higher): 220,000

Source: MPI tabulations of 2008-10 Current Population Survey data

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grecia Lopez is photographed in her San Jose, Calif., home on Tuesday,
July 3, 2012. Lopez, 24, intends to apply for deportation relief and a work
permit once the Obama administration directive takes effect in August. She's
already started gathering documents from her San Jose schools she attended as a
child to show how long she's been living in the United States. (Dan Honda/Staff)

Karina Gutierrez, a legal intern with Catholic Charities of the East Bay, spends
her days explaining the details of President Obama's recent pronouncement that
undocumented immigrants who meet certain requirements will be allowed to remain
in the country legally, Thursday, July 5, 2012 at an informational meeting in
Richmond, Calif. Ironically, the law will also affect her, as she has been in
the U.S. illegally since age 4. (D. Ross Cameron/Staff)
Guadalupe Pacheco, right, and her daughter Laila Molina, left, 18, are
photographed in their Pleasanton, Calif. home on Friday, July 6, 2012. Efrain
Molina is optimistic, but nervous, about what will happen to his family when a
landmark Obama administration deportation reprieve takes effect in mid-August.
The painter and his wife are too old to be helped by the directive, but their
18-year-old daughter, a graduate of Foothill High in Pleasanton and an incoming
student at UC Santa Cruz, stands to benefit.(Dan Honda/Staff)
Guadalupe Pacheco, left, and her daughter Laila Molina, right, 18, unpack some
boxes in Laila's new bedroom in their Pleasanton, Calif. home on Friday, July 6,
2012. Efrain Molina is optimistic, but nervous, about what will happen to his
family when a landmark Obama administration deportation reprieve takes effect in
mid-August. The painter and his wife are too old to be helped by the directive,
but their 18-year-old daughter, a graduate of Foothill High in Pleasanton and an
incoming student at UC Santa Cruz, stands to benefit.(Dan Honda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 13, 2012 Friday

Oakland City Hall intern's deportation reprieve could be first of many

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Oakland Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News

LENGTH: 817 words


A federal immigration agent sifted through Jose Garcia's paperwork before
gruffly telling the shackled 20-year-old he was off the hook, rescued by forces
beyond the agent's control.

"'You better thank Obama,'" Garcia, a summer intern in Oakland Mayor Jean Quan's
office, said the agent told him. Not long after, Garcia walked free into
downtown San Francisco after a sleepless, desperate week in jail.

Garcia's sudden freedom Monday from the threat of deportation to Mexico could be
a taste of what's to come for young people like him -- or it might be a fluke.

His reprieve came a month before the Department of Homeland Security's promised
start of a program granting deportation relief and work permits to hundreds of
thousands of young illegal immigrants brought to the United States as children.
Lawyers believe Garcia is one of the Bay Area's first to benefit since President
Barack Obama announced the directive last month.

"It's because of the June 15 policy" that Garcia was freed, said San Francisco
lawyer Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center. "Normally it's
ICE's mandate if they find someone who is deportable," they try to deport them.

Garcia is only the second person Silverman knows of -- the other in Arizona --
to receive such a reprieve.

The Department of Homeland Security won't say if or how many illegal immigrants
are already being helped by the policy, insisting it won't be fully implemented
until mid-August. Republican lawmakers are accusing the administration of having
started two months early, though Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano's
June 15 memo said the new guidance to immigration agents "takes effect
immediately."

Garcia's lawyer, Laura Polstein of Oakland's Centro Legal de la Raza, has never
seen a case like this.

"What happened to Jose is surprising," she said. "It's very atypical for someone
to be released without a bond."

Immigration agents always had discretion, but "there was probably some more
forceful direction from the Obama administration" last month to actually use it,
said Bay Area immigration lawyer Randall Caudle. He said he had heard of a
handful of similar cases around the country since June 15.

Garcia crossed into the United States when he was 5 and grew up in Oakland.

A friend recruited the restaurant worker this summer for an unpaid internship at
Oakland City Hall, where he sorts mail and does clerical work.

He hadn't heard about the new policy but appears to qualify for a work permit
and protection from deportation. His arrest accelerated his relief.

Garcia got into trouble July 2 as he drove a friend home from 74th to 90th
avenues in East Oakland.

He admits he was driving too fast. He also had some beers earlier but said he
was not drunk. Still, he failed the breath test and the officer arrested him on
suspicion of driving under the influence and without a license. He was booked
into Alameda County's Santa Rita Jail in Dublin.

Prosecutors dropped the case in court, but a fingerprint check revealed Garcia
was not a legal U.S. resident. Immigration agents picked him up at the county
jail a week after his arrest, shackling him at the wrists, ankles and waist.

"I was shocked," Garcia said Wednesday, fighting back tears. "They chain you
like a dog."

At the San Francisco immigration office, he did paperwork explaining how long he
has lived here and where he got his diploma. An agent called the school and
checked.

"They told me, 'You're going to be released. ... Your record is clean.'"

Reviewing his school record, releasing him without an order to return for a
court hearing and giving him information on applying for a work permit was
unusual, seasoned Bay Area immigration lawyers said.

"Their attitude is usually, 'We'll file (for deportation) and you can figure
that out in court.' This is pretty uncommon," said lawyer Jackie Shull-Gonzalez
of San Francisco-based Dolores Street Community Services.

Opponents of the new deportation policy also are convinced the government is
moving ahead of next month's official launch.

U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, in a July 3 letter
demanded answers from ICE Director John Morton. Smith said documents
"demonstrate that illegal immigrants have already benefited from the new policy,
even though there are no standards in place."

He called the policy an "open invitation to fraud."

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said in an email that, for now, her agency is
considering relief under the new policy only if someone already has a looming
deportation or if the person qualifies under last year's broader directive to
drop low-priority cases.

Whatever made him free, Garcia, still shellshocked by the rapid turn of events,
said he's thankful for the opportunity to live in this country.

The experience, he said, makes him want to be a police officer.

"It opened my eyes a little. Not all the cops are bad. I met a lot of nice
people in there."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

Margaret Lavin: Beating the odds

BYLINE: By Margaret Lavin San Mateo County Times

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 528 words


With so much negative attention focused on today's immigration controversy, it's
easy to forget our own histories. Most of us have ancestors who struggled and
sacrificed emigrating from foreign parts to live in the land of milk and honey.

In fact, the Native American population is under less than 3 percent of the
total U.S. population, leaving 97 percent of us with family trees started
somewhere else.

We live in a unique country that has thrived as a nation of immigrants. It is
the quintessential American story.

Like many before them, those seeking refuge today contend with racism, poverty
and myriad other social and financial problems . They are hoping to overcome the
obstacles, beat the odds and embark on their own American dream. Elisabeth
Magana is one such idealist.

Magana emigrated from Michoacán, Mexico, to America with her family when she was
in sixth grade. "I had a very difficult time adjusting to life in the U.S.," she
said. "East Palo Alto is extremely different from the small, quiet village where
I had spent the majority of my childhood."

As a girl, Magana witnessed homicides, drug trafficking and armed robberies. "I
did not realize the severity of the situation until I saw individuals hiding
crack cocaine in exhaust pipes, bushes and even going as far as giving the crack
to children to hold when the cops rushed in. There were two times when armed men
ran into my apartment hiding from the cops."

Although she had to overcome the language barrier, culture shock and learn to
navigate a very dangerous environment, Magana excelled in school.

"The first day of school was terrorizing. The teacher leaned over to say
something, but all I could focus on was the movement of her lips because I could
not understand the words that were coming out of her mouth," she said. "I worked
really hard and managed to maintain a 4.0 GPA during seventh grade and a 3.9
during eighth grade. I graduated as the valedictorian of my class and I received
a lot of guidance from my teachers who helped me apply and enroll at Eastside
College Preparatory" in East Palo Alto.

She went on to graduate from UCLA in 2011 with a degree in Chicano studies and a
minor in education. Now she's a 23-year-old college coach with Beyond 12, a
national nonprofit organization whose mission is to increase the number of first
generation, low income and underrepresented students who graduate from our
nation's colleges and universities.

Outside of the East Palo Alto resident's family and close circle of friends, one
of Magana's major supporters was the Peninsula College Fund. "The Peninsula
College Fund was vital to my college graduation. They assisted me through
difficult financial situations, provided me with a mentor and ensured that I was
exploring my career options, developing professional and peer networks as well
as getting the experience in my area of interest," she said. I am forever
indebted to PCF for all of their support."

We can't help but be proud of Magana and also impressed by the people who
reached out to support her efforts. They are truly living the American dream.

For more information on the Peninsula College Fund, go
towww.peninsulacollegefund.org .

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

Immigration debate keeps law school graduate a few steps from his dreams

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz hmintz@mercurynews.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; Crime; News; National; State

LENGTH: 960 words


DURHAM -- The endless rows of almond orchards dotting the landscape in this
ranch town just outside Chico meant a future for Sergio Garcia's family.

His father, a Mexican immigrant, harvested the cash crop, shaking the trees for
bounty 12 hours a day through hot summer months. As a teenager, Sergio Garcia
worked alongside his father, helping out when he wasn't rising to the top of his
high school class and positioning himself for college and, later, law school.

But the nation's wrenching debate over illegal immigration has now engulfed
Garcia's path to success. He is at the center of an unprecedented California
Supreme Court case that will determine whether the state bar can grant an
undocumented immigrant a card to practice law in California.

The 35-year-old Garcia earned his law degree three years ago and passed the bar
exam on the first try. But he must pursue the right to a lawyer's license
because of his immigration status, in flux since 1994 when he returned from
Mexico to rejoin his family and finish high school.

On a recent June afternoon, Garcia described his plight in his small living
room, where he keeps a folder of court papers and a scrapbook of business cards
of journalists from as far away as China to someday show his children.

Garcia has wanted to be a lawyer since he was 10 and never imagined that simple
dream would be so complicated.

"I hope the California Supreme Court will let me move on with my life," Garcia
told this newspaper during a day of interviews around his hometown.

With the Florida Supreme Court recently taking up a nearly identical case, the
issue has inflamed both sides of the immigration conflict and may draw the Obama
administration into the fray. Among other legal questions, the California
Supreme Court has asked the U.S. Justice Department to address whether federal
law precludes the state from granting a professional license to an illegal
immigrant.

The federal government and state Attorney General Kamala Harris are expected to
file their legal opinions this week.

To immigration rights advocates, Garcia is the prototype of an immigrant who
should be free to remain in the country and contribute. He has spent most of his
life here, his father and most of his siblings are citizens, but the bogged-down
federal visa process, particularly for Mexican immigrants, has slowed his quest
for legal status.

The State Board of Bar Examiners agrees, urging the state Supreme Court to give
Garcia his law license. (Florida's board recommended against licensing Jose
Godinez-Samperio, a 25-year-old Tampa law school graduate.)

California, "which has expressed a desire to invest in the education of
undocumented students, should be able to benefit from the contributions of these
individuals as professionals, both economically and otherwise," the board wrote
in a brief.

But critics of illegal immigration see Garcia as an example of a system that's
too permissive.

"People in the country illegally should not be practicing law," said Ira
Mehlman, media director for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"This is an effort to eliminate the last vestige of the (difference) in people
who are here illegally and people who are here legally."

Garcia is quick to say he has not lived in the shadows. He was first brought to
California as a 1-year-old, living here until he was 8 before returning to
Mexico. He was 17 when he came back to stay, and his father immediately sought a
visa. He has been waiting ever since.

Garcia jokes that he's just missed every possible break and deadline that would
have spared him this court battle. He was born in Mexico just before his parents
came here and he's too old to capitalize on President Barack Obama's recent
policy changes offering reprieves and work permits to people brought here as
children.

As he strolls the bland campus of Durham High School, where he was "a brown kid
in a white world," Garcia speaks softly of how he spent recesses studying. His
grades drew scholarship offers, which drifted away when schools discovered his
immigration status.

The only hint of bitterness he shows is when people use "illegal" instead of
"undocumented" to describe him, a distinction he said fuels "extreme views."

Legal experts say Garcia's case puts the state Supreme Court in uncharted
territory, mainly because California has no clear law on the topic. The state
bar didn't even ask about immigration status until 2008.

Federal law bars local and state agencies from giving "public benefits" to
illegal immigrants. The key question is whether that forbids California from
licensing Garcia.

Critics of illegal immigration say Garcia should be denied a license under
federal law, but some law professors disagree.

"He has already lived, been educated and successfully passed the bar exam in
California," said Pratheepan Gulasekaram, a Santa Clara University law professor
who specializes in immigration law. "It seems silly to think of him as a person
to whom (the federal law) was directed."

Even if the Supreme Court sides with Garcia, legal fog surrounds whether he can
practice law without a green card. Federal law bars employers from hiring
undocumented workers, but Garcia insists he would hang up his own shingle as an
independent contractor. Experts say the law does not require clients to check
his immigration status.

Meanwhile, Garcia waits. Some of his legal work, helping area law firms with
Spanish-speaking clients, has dried up as a result of publicity about his
plight. But he is ready to take his case to the U.S. Supreme Court if necessary.

"They picked the wrong guy," he said. "I'm stubborn. Either kick me out of the
country or give me my law license."

Howard Mintz covers legal affairs. Contact him at 408-286-0236. Follow him
atTwitter.com/hmintz .

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sergio Garcia at Durham H.S. where he used to go to school in Durham,
Calif. Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented immigrant who is seeking
the right to practice law in a case now before the California Supreme Court. The
court recently took up the case, inviting the Obama administration to weigh in
on whether federal immigration law bars states from licensing illegal immigrants
for such professions as the law. (Patrick Tehan/Staff)
Sergio Garcia at Durham H.S. where he used to go to school in Durham, Calif.
Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented immigrant who is seeking the
right to practice law in a case now before the California Supreme Court. The
court recently took up the case, inviting the Obama administration to weigh in
on whether federal immigration law bars states from licensing illegal immigrants
for such professions as the law. (Patrick Tehan/Staff)
Sergio Garcia at Durham H.S. where he used to go to school in Durham, Calif.
Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented immigrant who is seeking the
right to practice law in a case now before the California Supreme Court. The
court recently took up the case, inviting the Obama administration to weigh in
on whether federal immigration law bars states from licensing illegal immigrants
for such professions as the law. (Patrick Tehan/Staff)
Sergio Garcia in an almond orchard similar to one he used to work in near his
home in Durham, Calif. Friday, June 29, 2012. Garcia is an undocumented
immigrant who is seeking the right to practice law in a case now before the
California Supreme Court. The court recently took up the case, inviting the
Obama administration to weigh in on whether federal immigration law bars states
from licensing illegal immigrants for such professions as the law. (Patrick
Tehan/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 27, 2012 Friday

More become citizens in presidential election years, but 2012 not a banner year

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 811 words


In their monthly hunt for new voters, Bay Area Democrats and Republicans jockey
for the best sidewalk perch outside Oakland's Paramount Theatre, slam down their
ironing boards and folding tables and prop up cardboard cutouts of the Obama
family and Ronald Reagan.

All to capture the attention of the 1,226 immigrants from 107 nations who took
their oaths of American citizenship inside the grand Art Deco building this
week.

Thirty Democratic activists and a smaller Republican crew were poised beneath
the old cinema's marquee with clipboards in hand, hoping to make party voters of
the Bay Area's newest U.S. citizens streaming out of the theater late Wednesday
morning.

Presidential elections can spur citizenship applications as immigrants enthused
or disturbed by the high-profile contest sign up for the right to vote. This
year, however, is unlikely to make the record books despite the sidewalk
volunteers' ardent appeals.

Not as in 2008, when more than 1 million immigrants took their oaths of
allegiance in the year leading up to the election of President Barack Obama,
helping him win swing states.

Nor as in 1996, when critics accused President Bill Clinton of drumming up the
naturalization numbers to benefit his re-election campaign against Republican
challenger Bob Dole.

It would take a surge of new citizens to hit the million mark for a third time
in 2012, but this year's modest numbers are trending closer to an off-year, such
as the 694,193 new citizens in 2011 or the 619,913 in 2010. Among the reasons
are the slowdown of immigration to the United States, the shrinking backlog of
citizenship applications and fewer national drives to mobilize Latino and Asian
immigrants.

Still, it was no secret which party had the advantage when happy new citizens
from around the Bay Area walked out of naturalization ceremonies in Oakland and
Campbell this week.

"We're so outnumbered, so utterly outnumbered," said Republican activist Peggy
Esposito as she scanned the partisan competition spread out in front of the
Oakland theater. "I feel disenfranchised, frankly, in Oakland. It's much better
when it's balanced."

Clad in patriotic blue and red, the South African immigrant tried her best to
steer new citizens to the GOP table. Esposito fondly remembered her own
citizenship ceremony in 1986.

"I was so inspired by Ronald Reagan. When he spoke, he just made me want to be
American."

Now, it's the cardboard Obamas -- the president and first lady -- inspiring the
most picture-takers and new voters. Guiding new citizens to the presidential
cutout was the "Ma Squad," a multilingual group of young Democratic interns sent
by Assemblywoman Fiona Ma, D-San Francisco.

They and an older group of Democratic activists registered more than 150 new
citizens on Wednesday: 95 Democrats, 54 people who chose no affiliation and 3
Republicans.

The Republican activists declined to say how many they registered, noting that
many new citizens will take the forms home to fill out.

In that group was Paul Moktan, 21, of Nepal, who said he favors Mitt Romney but
did not have time to fill out the form.

"Hopefully Romney can do something better," said the Sebastopol resident who is
studying to be a nurse. He took a Romney sticker and wore it. Many others such
as Christine Cabras, 24, an El Sobrante resident and martial arts
instructor-in-training from the Philippines; and Hayward resident and business
student Francisco Huato, 22, of Mexico, were longtime Obama supporters looking
forward to voting for him.

"Everyone's talking about it," Cabras said.

It was the election that did it for Sunnyvale resident and social worker Shalini
Bijlani, 36, who never missed an election in India before coming to California
in 2005.

"I want to be part of the political process," said Bijlani. She and many new
citizens lean Democrat, she said, because the party "is more pro-immigration.
They've expressed this verbally without hesitation."

Unlike the hectic scene in Oakland, no party activists solicited Bijlani and 803
other new citizens who emerged Thursday from two back-to-back ceremonies at
Campbell's Heritage Theatre. Party activists stopped coming when they had to
move from the lawn to a sidewalk.

That left new citizens such as Vijesh Iyer, 29, a PayPal employee, more time to
consider party affiliation, if any.

"A lot of new citizens tend to start by voting Democratic, but for me it's more
a function of the candidates and what that candidate is going to stand for,"
Iyer said.

He will vote in November, but he also follows another election tradition: He
won't say for whom.

Bay Area's new citizens

Taking their oaths of citizenship in Oakland and Campbell this week were 2,030
immigrants from some 107 nations. Here are the top 5 countries of origin in the
group:

1. Mexico 307
2. China 275
3. Philippines 254
4. Vietnam 178
5. India 177
Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New citizens and Democrats Jennifer Mendza, right, and her son VIctor
Gutierrez, 15 months, of Menlo Park and formerly of Kenya, pose for a picture
taken by Yvonne Memusi, left, after a naturalization ceremony at the Paramount
Theatre in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday, July 25, 2012. 1,226 people from over
100 countries became American citizens. Both Republican and Democrat volunteers
had tables set up outside the theater to encourage people to vote. (Jane
Tyska/Staff)
New citizens Jaime Arriba, right, and his wife, Maria, left, of Alameda, and of
Filipino descent, receive a Mitt Romney sign after a naturalization ceremony at
the Paramount Theatre in Oakland, Calif., on Wednesday, July 25, 2012. They plan
to vote for Romney in the November presidential election. 1,226 people from over
100 countries became American citizens. Both Republican and Democrat volunteers
had tables set up outside the theater to encourage people to vote. (Jane
Tyska/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Deportation relief will cost eligible immigrants $465

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 496 words


It will cost young illegal immigrants $465 to benefit from a new Obama
administration directive granting protection from deportation and temporary work
permits, the nation's immigration chief said Friday.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of U.S. Immigration and Citizenship Services,
revealed the fee and other new details about the unprecedented relief policy,
which takes effect Aug. 15 and which President Barack Obama first announced in
June.

Researchers have estimated that more than 1 million people who are under 31
years old and brought to the United States before they were 16 could be eligible
for deportation relief and two-year, renewable work permits if they meet all the
criteria, which includes a high school diploma or being in school.

The new policy doesn't grant permanent legal residency or citizenship and costs
less than either of those two benefits, which most people here illegally have no
way of obtaining. Green cards for permanent legal residency cost legal
immigrants at least $1,070; becoming a citizen costs $680.

The new $465 work permit fee includes $85 for a fingerprint check.

The youths, many of whom haven't seen their native countries since their
infancy, will have to pay an additional $380 fee if they want to travel outside
the United States -- and will only will be able to do so if immigration
officials determine that they have a legitimate humanitarian, educational or
employment-related reason.

Some eligible youths in the most extreme circumstances might be exempted from
the work permit fee if they are homeless, in foster care, lack parental support,
cannot care for themselves because of a disability or are living far below the
U.S. poverty line, Mayorkas said.

U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, R-Texas, on Friday called
the new guidance "a slap in the face to the 23 million unemployed or
underemployed Americans" on the same day a jobs report showed 8.3 percent of
Americans are unemployed.

But U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, the ranking Democrat on Smith's
immigration subcommittee, said in an interview that the directive helps the
broader community because the young people, many of whom already work, are less
likely to be exploited and undercut others in the labor market if they join the
legal workforce.

She also said immigration officials had worked to design the program so that it
pays for itself.

"It's paid for by the applicants, not by the taxpayers," she said.

The immigration service said it is hiring more workers to prepare for the influx
of online-only applications. Anyone who tries to apply before Aug. 15 will be
rejected, officials said.

Mayorkas also clarified who won't qualify.

Among the crimes that will disqualify applicants are convictions for gun crimes,
sex offenses, burglary and drunken driving. But those with convictions for
driving without a license and low-level misdemeanors will be considered.

Contact reporter Matt O'Brien at 510-293-2465. Follow him
atwww.twitter.com/mattoyeah .

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 5, 2012 Sunday

65,000 Bay Area immigrants could benefit from deportation policy, study states

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien mattobrien@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 664 words


As the Obama administration readies for a rush of applications from young
illegal immigrants seeking work permits, a new study predicts one of the largest
contingents will come from the Bay Area, perhaps more than from all of Arizona.

And while the majority of the applicants here and across the country were born
in Mexico, the Bay Area also has a large number of Asian immigrant youths who
are likely to benefit from the new policy.

More than 46,000 Bay Area immigrants who are younger than 31 and were brought to
the country illegally when they were children could immediately qualify for
two-year, renewable work permits and protection from being deported. Another
19,000 here are children younger than 15 who could benefit when they grow older,
according to the estimates by the Immigration Policy Center, an advocacy and
research group based in Washington, D.C.

That's about 65,000 young immigrants eligible for relief, more than the 53,000
estimated in the entire state of Arizona and the roughly 39,000 each in New
Jersey and Georgia. California as a whole has about 30 percent of all potential
beneficiaries.

Nationwide, the policy center joins other researchers in saying nearly 1 million
could immediately qualify when the policy takes effect Aug. 15, but the center
is the first to make regional estimates.

"They're everywhere; they're in every congressional district, every state," said
Wendy Sefsaf, spokeswoman for the center.

Using census data, it calculated estimates by congressional district and found
the Bay Area's largest concentrations of eligible youths live in the South Bay
and East Bay districts of Reps. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose; George Miller,
D-Martinez; and Barbara Lee, D-Oakland.

Lofgren's San Jose-centered district has about 9,600 young immigrants who might
benefit, more than twice as many as in the San Francisco district of House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, which has fewer Latino families and fewer young
people.

Lofgren, the ranking Democrat on the House of Representatives' immigration
subcommittee, said she doesn't know if the estimates are accurate but said she
meets undocumented students every time she visits a local school or college.

"For the most part, the kids I've met are tremendous strivers," said Lofgren,
who supports the directive that President Barack Obama announced June 15.

"These are people who basically have lived here all their lives who are American
but they don't have their papers," she said.

The relief directive won't grant legal residency or citizenship but will permit
the youths to work legally and will protect them from being deported.

On Friday, immigration officials said it will cost $465 to apply for the work
permits and undergo a required background check. U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services is expanding its staff to handle the rush of applications
but said the policy should pay for itself.

"It's paid for by the applicants, not by the taxpayers," Lofgren said.

The policy center estimated the number of beneficiaries in each state and
congressional district by extrapolating from census data on country of origin,
age, educational attainment and citizenship and from previous government
estimates of unauthorized immigrants.

Nationwide, it showed Democratic lawmakers, most of whom have been supportive of
the new initiative, tend to have more illegal immigrant youths living in their
districts than Republicans do, with exceptions.

Southern California Republicans Rep. Mary Bono Mack, of Palm Springs, and Rep.
Ed Calvert, of Riverside, each had more than 9,000.

Nationwide, a West Virginia Democrat had the fewest expected beneficiaries in
his district, about 60 people, while the most -- more than 19,000 -- were found
in the Phoenix district of Rep. Ed Pastor, D-Ariz.

Sefsaf cautioned that the numbers are guesswork, and no one will know the true
count until the government begins accepting relief applications in less than two
weeks.

Contact Matt O'Brien at 510-293-2465. Follow him atTwitter.com/mattoyeah .

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: President Barack Obama announces that the U.S. government will stop
deporting and begin granting work permits to younger illegal immigrants who came
to the U.S. as children and have since led law-abiding lives, Friday, June 15,
2012, in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington. (AP Photo/Haraz N.
Ghanbari)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday

Richmond chief, Contra Costa sheriff clash over jail expansion

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 873 words


Two top Contra Costa leaders -- Richmond's police chief and the county sheriff
-- are clashing over a plan to use state money to expand the West County Jail,
which holds county inmates but is also the Bay Area's only overnight federal
immigration detention center.

Sheriff David Livingston wants to expand the county jail at Richmond's Point
Pinole by 150 beds to accommodate the statewide "realignment" shifting low-level
criminal offenders from state prisons to county supervision.

Richmond Police Chief Chris Magnus is among the critics publicly questioning
Livingston's proposal and asking the sheriff for more information, including how
much jail space is taken up holding immigrants under a contract with U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

"Why should we even be leasing bed space to ICE or other state/federal law
enforcement agencies if we have too little space to accommodate our own
county-convicted individuals?" Magnus asked last week in an email retort to
Livingston's plea for political support for the jail expansion.

The long-simmering debate comes ahead of an important 8 a.m. Thursday county
meeting to decide if the jail expansion can go forward. Magnus drew applause
from prison reform and immigrant advocates at a crowded community meeting last
month when he asked the Sheriff's Office for more information on the expansion
and why it is needed. This week, he said his questions still haven't been
answered.

Magnus and Livingston are among seven voting members of the county's Community
Corrections Partnership, which must decide this week how to spend a $19 million
prison realignment grant from the state.

Every California county has such a committee because of a 2011 law shifting to
counties the responsibility for supervising low-level offenders from overcrowded
state prisons. The realignment began in October.

Livingston has said the shift forces him to seek $2.9 million for a jail
addition in Richmond, but opponents want the county to use more of the money for
rehabilitation and one-stop help centers to keep people out of jails. Immigrant
advocates also say the sheriff's close relationship with federal immigration
enforcers is crowding Contra Costa's jails with illegal immigrants held for
deportation.

Livingston should "stop incarcerating people who pose no threat to the
community, and that includes undocumented residents" who haven't committed
serious crimes, said Adam Kruggel, director of Contra Costa Interfaith
Supporting Community Organization. It has held vigils outside the Richmond jail,
and its members have crowded county meetings.

"It's creating a fiscal crisis, a huge community crisis," he said. "It's a
problem that the sheriff has a lot of power to help resolve."

Livingston has rebuffed weeks of criticism without revealing the information
advocates have requested.

"Some citizen groups in the County's West end are opposing any increase in jail
space, instead favoring early release of all offenders," Livingston wrote in a
July 31 email to about three dozen local law enforcement leaders asking for
their support. "They are also pressing for me to stop 'cooperating' with ICE
under Secure Communities, something I have refused to do. I have met with those
groups but we respectfully disagree."

The Secure Communities fingerprints program, which is in effect in all of
California's counties, alerts federal agents whenever a deportable immigrant is
booked in a county jail. Contra Costa County also has a unique contract with ICE
allowing the federal agency to put its own detainees in the Richmond jail, said
ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice.

The immigration agency has no overnight beds of its own in the Bay Area and uses
the Contra Costa jail to hold immigrants awaiting deportation proceedings. The
next closest jails that have such agreements are in Sacramento and Yuba
counties.

The contract amount and how many immigrants are routinely held in Richmond is
not information the sheriff's department has shared. This newspaper has filed a
public records request with the federal government requesting the contract.

Magnus also asked how much bed space is used by ICE, saying the information
should come "before we vote on a budget that would dramatically add bed space"
and cost millions.

The role of immigration enforcement in the jail expansion is just one of many
questions that local leaders are in the dark about, said former Antioch Police
Chief Jim Hyde.

"The question is, do they have enough room? No one knows," said Hyde, who was
Antioch's chief from 2006 to early 2011.

Hyde said that "apparently a consultant's report was done" for the sheriff's
department on the expansion need but hasn't been shared outside the department.

"Chris Magnus is asking the questions that a lot of chiefs are asking," Hyde
said. "The jail facility adjoins his community. He has a right to ask those
questions."

Jail expansion meeting

What: Contra Costa County's Community Corrections Partnership is expected to
vote on allocating a $19 million grant from the state "realignment" plan to
shift low-level offenders from state prisons to county custody. Among the
proposals is a $2.9 million expansion of the West County Jail in Richmond.
When: 8 to 10 a.m. Thursday
Where: 50 Douglas Drive in Martinez

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

Our communities in brief

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1169 words


San Ramon

Second victim of fatal I-680 crash Identified

Authorities have identified the second of two people killed early Sunday in a
chain-reaction crash on Interstate 680.

Brandon Rosevear, 18, of Concord, was identified as the driver of a Nissan
Maxima that clipped the backside of a BMW while driving south on I-680 just
south of Crow Canyon Road at 1:22 a.m., according to the Contra Costa County
Coroner's Office.

The passenger of the silver BMW was identified yesterday as Mehrdad Emami, 46,
of San Ramon. The driver of the BMW, an unidentified 40-year-old woman from San
Ramon, remains hospitalized with major injuries, the CHP said.

How or why the young driver hit the rear bumper of the BMW was still under
investigation, the CHP said, but the collision caused both cars to spin into a
construction area, the CHP said. The Nissan Maxima struck a forklift on the
driver's side and became engulfed in flames with Rosevear inside.

-- Erin Ivie, Staff

Bay Area

Immigrants can get deportation deferral

Applications are now available for a new program to avert deportation of
immigrants who illegally came to the United States as youths.

The forms and instructions were made available Tuesday for the U.S. Customs and
Immigration Service program, which will begin accepting applications for
"deferred action" today.

"It is important that individuals wishing to be considered for deferred action
understand the requirements," said agency Director Alejandro Mayorkas in a news
release.

The forms are:

Form I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals;

Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (with accompanying fees);
and

I-765WS Worksheet

The immigration service websitewww.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals has details on
the program and downloadable applications. Information is also available at the
agency's toll-free number: 1-800-375-5283.

-- Andrew McGall, Staff

Berkeley

Woman unhurt after car plows into hydrant

A woman walked away uninjured after she smashed her car into a fire hydrant
Tuesday and the car caught on fire.

Police said the unidentified driver was going west on Ashby Avenue when the car
had "some sort of mechanical difficulty." Trying to stop the car, she drove up
on the sidewalk and hit the hydrant at the corner of King Street. She got out
and called 911 before the car was consumed by flames, police said.

Police said she did the right thing, especially because she was across the
street from an elementary school where children were in a playground.

-- Doug Oakley, Staff

San Ramon

Two-alarm blaze damages businesses

A two-alarm fire that damaged a commercial building that housed two businesses
caused approximately $200,000 in damage before firefighters were able to
extinguish it Tuesday.

No injures were reported in the blaze, which occurred around 4:25 p.m. at 18722
Bollinger Canyon Road near Crow Canyon Road, said San Ramon Valley Fire Chief
Richard Price.

The 4,000-square-foot building housed a combination wood shop and home
improvement business and a construction business, Price said. The cause is under
investigation.

-- Rick Hurd, Staff

BERKELEY

Cal MBA program aims at working executives

UC Berkeley's Haas School of Business has launched a new Berkeley MBA for
Executives Program designed to teach working professionals to generate fresh
ideas that could drive their businesses forward.

It will begin accepting applications in September for enrollment in May 2013,
according to a Tuesday announcement. The school has recruiting events planned
Aug. 30 in Berkeley and Sept. 13 in San Francisco, aimed at executives with
about 12 years of experience.

Courses will be offered Thursdays through Saturdays over 19 months. Students
will stay in hotels and attend most classes on campus, along with some overseas
or in other locations.

More information is available by calling 510-642-0342 or by
visitinghttp://mbaforexecs.haas.berkeley.edu/ .

-- Theresa Harrington, Staff

San Francisco

Reports of 3 sexual assaults at music fest

Police are investigating three reported sexual assaults at the Outside Lands
Music and Arts Festival over the weekend, a San Francisco police spokesman said.

Police said three women filed separate reports of sexual assaults at the
festival, which ran Friday through Sunday at Golden Gate Park.

No arrests have been made. Police do not believe the incidents were related. The
descriptions of the suspects are different, police said, and the reported
attacks occurred in three different locations.

Police still need to further interview the women and talk to witnesses and
concert attendees to complete their investigation, said spokesman Officer Carlos
Manfredi.

Manfredi said reports of sexual assaults at the festival are rare. More than
200,000 people turned out over the three days to see such legends as Neil Young
and Stevie Wonder and newcomers Alabama Shakes and Of Monsters and Men.

-- Kristin J. Bender, Staff

Lafayette

Police seek public help in finding burglars

Police are asking for the public's help in finding three men who were caught in
the middle of a burglary Tuesday morning.

The three men were interrupted about 11:45 a.m. while in a residence on Leland
Drive, police said. Details of how the men were discovered were not released.

The burglary suspects escaped in a dirty, dark-colored 1993 Ford Explorer with a
license plate of 3CIL207, police said.

-- Rick Hurd, Staff

Oakland

Fatal shooting raises city's homicide tally

A 30-year-old man was fatally shot in East Oakland on Tuesday afternoon, police
said.

The man's name and city of residence were not immediately available. The
shooting happened at 12:21 p.m. outside an apartment complex in the 6400 block
of Mac-Arthur Boulevard, near the Evergreen Cemetery, police said.

No arrests have been made, and no motive was known. The man was taken to a
hospital where he later died, police said.

The slaying was the 73rd killing in Oakland this year.

-- Harry Harris, Staff

Alameda

Fire at apartments quickly extinguished

A two-alarm fire in a multiunit apartment building was quickly controlled
Tuesday afternoon with no injuries reported, a fire department official said.

The fire in the 1300 block of Pearl Street was reported at 3:30 p.m. Five fire
trucks responded and had the fire controlled by 3:45 p.m., said fire department
analyst Maria Raff.

Everyone in the building was evacuated safely, she said.

Two units in the building were damaged, Raff said.

The cause of the fire is under investigation. A damage estimate was not
immediately available.

Oakland fire crews covered stations in Alameda while crews fought the blaze.
Alameda police were also on the scene controlling traffic at Pearl and Central
Avenue.

-- Kristin J. Bender, Staff

Oakland

Stalled big-rig fouls Caldecott traffic

Traffic on eastbound Highway 24 came to a virtual standstill Tuesday morning
after a big-rig stalled in the Caldecott Tunnel, the California Highway Patrol
said.

The truck stalled about 11:15 a.m. in the left lane of the first bore, backing
up traffic to the Highway 13 merge in Oakland, the CHP said.

-- Erin Ivie, Staff

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Young illegal immigrant program applications ready

BYLINE: By Andrew McGall Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; National; State

LENGTH: 155 words


Applications are now available for a new program to avert deportation of
immigrants who illegally came to the United States as youths.

The forms and instructions were made available Tuesday for the U.S. Customs and
Immigration Service program, which will begin accepting applications for
"deferred action" on Wednesday.

"While requests should not be submitted until August 15th, it is important that
individuals wishing to be considered for deferred action understand the
requirements," said agency director Director Alejandro Mayorkas in a news
release.

The forms are:

Form I-821D, Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals;

Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization (with accompanying fees);
and

I-765WS Worksheet

The immigration service websitewww.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals has details on
the program and downloadable applications. Information also available at the
agency's toll-free number: 1-800-375-5283.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 16, 2012 Thursday

Montclair briefs: Project to trace Bay Area's Swedish legacy

BYLINE: The Montclarion

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words


Bay Area's Swedish legacy focus of project

The Barbro Osher Pro Suecia Foundation has awarded Oakland's Tegner Lodge a
$15,000 grant to study the East Bay's Swedish legacy.

The project will research Swedish-American immigration, settlement patterns,
customs and contributions to the arts and crafts in the greater East Bay.
Focusing on Oakland, which was the center of the early Swedish community, the
study will branch out to explore the spread of Swedish culture through the
activities of other local Swedish organizations.

Many records hold clues to the early and evolving Swedish life in Oakland, but
they are scattered throughout documents and files from the City of Oakland's
Cultural Heritage Survey, the Oakland Heritage Alliance, the Public Library
History Room, the Swedish American Hall in San Francisco and locally housed
immigration records in the National Archives, as well as other archives and
personal collections. The project will integrate the records and memorabilia for
a website, and will hold a celebration with a slide at its completion.

Originally, Swedish "lodges" were organizations that served as fraternal
societies for the benefit of Swedish immigrants. Oakland's Tegner Lodge is the
second oldest VASA lodge in Northern California, formed in 1908, and has always
been open to both women and men. Tegner has been meeting continuously in Oakland
for more than 103 years, under the auspices of a national Swedish organization,
the VASA Order of America.

Today Tegner lodge is open to anyone interested in learning more about Nordic
history and culture. The group meets monthly at the Sons of Norway Björnson
Hall, 2258 Macarthur Blvd. in Oakland at 7 p.m. on the third Thursday of the
month, except for July and August.

Tegner Lodge is seeking photographs, written documents and oral interviews for
the project slide show on East Bay Swedish-American history. Anyone with
documents or memories to share can contact the lodge or bring them to the Sept.
20 meeting.

Contact Marie-Ann Hill, the project director, atmarieannh7@gmail.com or Kitty
Hughes, the writer and researcher,@khughes5@earthlink.net for more information
about the project.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 26, 2012 Sunday

Face the Facts USA: Asians surpass Hispanic immigration

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 101 words


Each day in the 100 days leading up to Election Day, MercuryNews.com and Face
the Facts USA will be partnering to bring you one exhaustively researched and
vetted, non-partisan fact about a major issue facing our nation.


Asians, not Hispanics, are now the leading class of immigrants to the US. About
430,000 Asian immigrants arrived in the US in 2010, compared to about 370,000 of
Hispanic origin. An influx of educated Asians is filling the demand for science
and engineering talent: Asian students earn 45 percent of engineering PhDs
awarded in the U.S. despite composing only 5.8 percent of the population.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 27, 2012 Monday

Immigration bills in California Legislature

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 301 words


The Legislature has sent one immigration-related bill to Gov. Jerry Brown's desk
on Friday and is debating three others in the final week before it adjourns for
the year. Here are the four bills:

What: AB 1081 (The TRUST Act)

Sponsor: Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco

Description: Prohibits local police and sheriffs from detaining immigrants on
federal deportation holds after they are eligible for release from criminal
custody, unless they committed a serious felony

Status: Approved by Assembly and Senate, governor has until Sept. 30 to sign it.

Link:www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/11-12/bill/asm/ab_1051-1100/ab_1081_bill_20120815_am
ended_sen_v93.html

What: AB 2189

Author: Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles

Description: Makes young immigrants eligible for California driver's licenses if
they obtain "deferred action" and work permits from the Obama administration

Status: Awaits vote this week

Link:leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201120120AB218
9

What: SB 901 (California Opportunity and Prosperity Act)

Sponsor: Assemblyman Felipe Fuentes, D-Sylmar

Description: Allows illegal immigrants to live and work in California if they
meet certain criteria and pay taxes; requests federal government to provide
state-qualified immigrants "safe harbor" and not deport them

Status: Awaits vote this week

Link:www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/11-12/bill/sen/sb_0901-0950/sb_901_cfa_20120824_0834
01_asm_comm.html

What: AB 916 (California Agriculture and Service Worker Act)

Sponsor: Assemblyman V. Manuel Perez, D-Coachella

Description: Bipartisan bill would set up a "working group" to develop a program
to distribute state work permits to undocumented farm and service workers

Status: Awaits vote this week

Link:www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/11-12/bill/asm/ab_0901-0950/ab_916_bill_20120823_ame
nded_sen_v93.html .

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

Flurry of immigration bills will test Gov. Jerry Brown

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 607 words


California lawmakers are pushing this week to pass four bills that would make
life easier for immigrants living and working here illegally, but all require
the support of a governor who chooses his immigration causes carefully.

Gov. Jerry Brown won praise last fall from Latinos and immigrant communities
when he signed a law giving illegal immigrant college students access to state
financial aid, but this season he must sift through a more complicated set of
measures that opponents view as defying federal prerogatives.

The flurry comes in the last days of the 2012 legislative session and tests the
compassion and political future of Brown, who supports a path to citizenship for
California's more than 2 million illegal immigrants but has repeatedly said the
solution must come from the federal government.

Already on Brown's desk is the Trust Act, which would partially pull California
out of an immigration dragnet that has deported about 80,000 people from the
state since Brown, as attorney general, signed a federal-state partnership in
2009.

"It's a lottery" whether Brown will sign or veto the Trust Act, said the bill's
author, Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco. The bill went to the
governor's desk Friday after a 48-26 vote in the Assembly and earlier approval
in the state Senate.

Ammiano's bill would restrict jails from holding immigrants for deportation
unless they committed a serious or violent felony. It is meant to counter the
Secure Communities fingerprints program that alerts U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement whenever local police jail a deportable immigrant.

Immigrant advocates say the federal program deports too many noncriminals and
low-level offenders, while most sheriffs support the ICE partnership and want
Brown to veto the Trust Act.

Brown and his aides declined to comment on any pending legislation, but he has
supported Secure Communities since he was attorney general.

"Every person arrested, their fingerprints are taken and they're sent to my
office, and I now send them to the immigration office," Brown boasted in a 2010
election debate with his Republican challenger Meg Whitman. "If they're found to
be here illegally, they're made subject to deportation."

Ammiano is hoping for a change of heart by Brown and others who the lawmaker
says were misled into believing the program was focused on deporting criminals.
Brown "signed a boilerplate memorandum of understanding ... based on a number of
lies, not by him, but by ICE," Ammiano said.

Also coming soon to Brown's desk may be a measure by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo,
D-Los Angeles, who has until the end of the week to usher through the
Legislature a bill that would grant driver's licenses to young illegal
immigrants who get work permits from the Obama administration.

Two other bills were introduced Friday, just one week before the Legislature
adjourns for the year on Aug. 31. One surprise proposal known as a "safe harbor"
bill seeks to protect most of the state's undocumented residents by allowing
them to work and live in the state if they've been here since 2008, have no
felony convictions and meet other conditions. Its proponent, Assemblyman Felipe
Fuentes, D-Sylmar, introduced the last-minute bill by "gutting and amending"
another one focused on vehicle pollution.

The fourth bill, the only one with Republican support, is a mostly symbolic
measure to consider work permits for undocumented farm and service workers.
Unlike his original version, however, the watered-down bill by Assemblyman
Manuel Pérez, D-Coachella, would not actually grant state work permits, but
rather would set up a working group to develop the idea.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Calif. Gov. Jerry Brown speaks from his vehicle after he campaigned
supporting Proposition 30 at James Lick Middle School in San Francisco,
Wednesday, Aug. 22, 2012. Brown has made austerity a hallmark of his
administration, telling state workers they must turn in their cellphones,
selling off state vehicles, severely reducing employee travel and cutting
billions from the general fund. Brown was counting on that record to help him
sell his November ballot initiative. (AP Photo/Paul Sakuma)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 1, 2012 Saturday

Face the Facts USA: Immigrants recovering more quickly from recession

BYLINE: Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 77 words


Each day in the 100 days leading up to Election Day, MercuryNews.com and Face
the Facts USA will be partnering to bring you one exhaustively researched and
vetted, non-partisan fact about a major issue facing our nation.


Immigrants are recovering from the economic downturn and finding jobs faster
than workers born in the United States. Between 2009 and 2011, employment among
foreign-born workers rose 5.2 percent, compared with 1.8 percent for U.S.-born
workers.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday

Deportation relief spurring young immigrants to graduate or return to school

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


As the fall semester begins, thousands of Bay Area high school students now have
another reason to graduate, and thousands of young adults have a reason to
return to school.

Proof of being in school or having graduated from high school could be a shield
against deportation and the key to jobs for an estimated 1.76 million young,
illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children if they qualify for
the federal "deferred action for childhood arrivals" program announced in June.

Educators hope the lure of protection against deportation and renewable work
permits will kindle the academic aspirations of young immigrants.

That hope seems a reality in East Contra Costa County, where one educator said
she saw a spike in July enrollments for GED and English as a Second Language
programs.

"It's just constant all day and evening," said Debbie Norgaard, an adult
education coordinator for the Liberty school district.

"There's just a steady flow of new students wanting either ESL or GED classes.
It's just real unusual. I'm sure it's because of this new (deferred action)
program. We have had a couple of students who have requested verification
letters from our GED teacher."

New motivation

An estimated 20 percent of the young immigrants do not meet the education
requirement -- they have no high school diploma, no GED and are not in school --
according to the Migration Policy Institute.

"Deferred action is going to be a motivation for everyone who didn't finish high
school," said Luis Arroyo, an incoming UC Santa Cruz student applying for the
relief. "It's going to motivate them to do something about it, go back to
school, get their GED."

Many of his friends told the Oakland 18-year-old this year that "they wanted to
give up on graduating" because even if they did well, being here illegally
offered little hope for future success.

An Oakland educator said he thought the new opportunity would encourage students
not to drop out.

"We tell our kids, 'You have to have your high school diploma,' " said Vidal
Gonzalez, who mentors Latino high school students in Oakland.  [0/00]'Now it's
up to you to buckle down and follow through because now you have an opportunity
that you didn't have a few months ago.' "

After President Barack Obama announced the policy June 15, thousands of Bay Area
teenagers spent the summer ensuring they had everything needed to qualify.

Arroyo and his friends, all of whom ended up graduating just days before the
policy announcement, were among about 1,200 young immigrants and their family
members who crowded an East Oakland gymnasium Aug. 23 to hear expert advice on
how to apply.

Hundreds more have gathered at similar workshops in Menlo Park, Oakley, Redwood
City and across urban and rural Northern California from Salinas to Cloverdale,
but it wasn't until shortly before the Obama administration began taking
applications Aug. 15 that it became clear the GED certificate would count for
the education requirement.

Like the Liberty adult school, some other Bay Area campuses may also see
increased interest in GED classes.

"A couple of folks have asked if we'll write a letter for them" proving that
they are taking classes, said Burr Guthrie, principal of the Berkeley Adult
School.

Dream Act important

Class began Wednesday at the school and included at least one student who
enrolled because she wanted to apply for deferred action, but she declined to
discuss her situation.

Armando Diaz, spokesman for the national GED (General Education Development)
Testing Service, said his organization believes the Obama program will spur an
increase in testing, but he won't be sure until next year. In 2011, 700,000
adults took the GED tests.

Other schools, such as the San Jose-Evergreen Community College District, expect
less of an enrollment spike. Chancellor Rita Cepeda says most eligible students
already have their high school diplomas and are enrolling in college classes,
not GED courses.

The temporary federal reprieve is "a small step in the right direction" and one
of several policies improving the prospects of students lacking legal status,
she said.

More important, she said, is the California Dream Act passed last year. It gives
illegal immigrant students access to need-based, state-funded scholarships in
the fall and Cal Grants and other state financial aid next year.

Deferred action has "made it easier for folks to study and work in plain
sunshine, and the availability of financial aid in 2013 may also increase the
number of students," Cepeda said, "but I don't think our figures are going to
double or triple."

At the San Mateo Adult School, "the increase is nothing we can't manage," said
Larry Teshara, the school's director.

"I'm getting the ambitious ones, the cream of the crop," Teshara said. "There's
a lot of hardworking people. They should be entitled to some hope, and this is a
nice start."

Staff writer Katy Murphy contributed to this story. Contact Matt O'Brien at
510-293-2465 or Theresa Harrington at 925-945-4764.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Immigration Attorney Helen Beasley, of Community Legal Services in East
Palo Alto, goes over paperwork with an unidentified teen during a consultation
at St. Anthony Catholic Church in Menlo Park, Calif., on Sunday, Aug. 26, 2012.
More than 500 immigrants and their families from the Peninsula came to attended
workshop for "deferred action for childhood arrivals" sponsored by Community
Legal Services in East Palo Alto, the International Institute of the Bay Area
(Redwood City office) and Catholic Charities CYO. The teen was among 370 who
were able to get in for consultation from volunteer attorneys. (Josie
Lepe/Staff)
Nadia Macias, center, volunteer attorney at Centro Legal de la Raza in Oakland,
answers questions to young immigrants during a community forum on Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals at Cesar Chavez Learning Center in Oakland,
Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 23, 2012. Undocumented immigrants who are applying and
qualify under Pres. Barack Obama's executive order will benefit with temporary
work permits and protection from deportation. About 1000 people showed up for
the session hosted by Oakland Community Organizations. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Oakland Community Organizations leader Yesenia Saucedo, center, speaks during a
community forum on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals at Cesar Chavez
Learning Center in Oakland, Calif., on Thursday, Aug. 23, 2012. Undocumented
immigrants who are applying and qualify under Pres. Barack Obama's executive
order will benefit with temporary work permits and protection from deportation.
About 1000 people showed up for the session hosted by Oakland Community
Organizations. (Ray Chavez/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

Mi Pueblo supermarket chain chief criticized for using E-Verify

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 808 words


His rags-to-riches immigrant journey and good business sense crowned Juvenal
Chavez the king of Latino supermarkets in the Bay Area, but now the CEO is
fighting a harsh attack on the reputation of his 21-store Mi Pueblo Foods
grocery chain.

Mi Pueblo stunned some of its more than 3,000 employees last month when it told
them it had joined E-Verify, a Department of Homeland Security program that
screens the immigration status of new hires.

Now, with union activists accusing Chavez of betraying his own undocumented
immigrant roots and threatening a consumer boycott if he doesn't pull out of
E-Verify by October, the entrepreneur is fighting back in a war of words against
the union and political opposition.

A protest outside the chain's San Jose headquarters on Thursday was "part of an
ongoing campaign against Mi Pueblo (to) damage our good name," said spokeswoman
Perla Rodriguez, who accused labor unions of an underhanded campaign to distort
the company's record of advocacy for the Bay Area's Latino community.

Lauded by city leaders around the Bay Area for buying up vacant or rundown
big-box supermarkets and transforming them into colorful, festive Latin American
food markets, Chavez is now confronting one of his biggest public-relations
challenges since he founded the company in 1991 on San Jose's Eastside.

Among Mi Pueblo's most prominent critics is Santa Clara County Supervisor Dave
Cortese, who said in December that armed security guards escorted him from a San
Jose store when he paid a visit after hearing complaints about work conditions.
The company had said the visit by Cortese, a likely 2014 candidate for mayor of
San Jose, was a union-organized "media stunt."

Now, the E-Verify controversy is fueling the ongoing disputes. Labor organizers
trying to unionize Latino and Asian ethnic markets across the state are
attacking Chavez as a hypocrite, citing past media reports in which he revealed
he came to the United States illegally from Mexico as a young man in the 1980s.

"He comes here undocumented and now he's going after undocumented workers," said
Mike Henneberry of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 5. "I think
that's a little hypocritical. If it's not hypocritical, it's a little ironic."

Rodriguez countered that Chavez is a longtime U.S. citizen and a community
advocate who supports fixing the "broken" immigration system and has funded
scholarships for undocumented students. She said she didn't know how he arrived
to the country. That question, she said, is "very personal and it is not
pertinent to operation of the company." Chavez declined repeated requests for
comment.

After arriving to the United States in the 1980s and working as a janitor at
Stanford University, Juvenal Chavez worked alongside his brother David Chavez,
who founded Redwood City's Chavez Meat Market in 1984, expanded into Menlo Park
in 1993 and now runs the eight-store Chavez Supermarket chain.

Soon, however, Juvenal Chavez's own company began to eclipse his brother's
business, and it's now an empire that stretches from Vallejo to Salinas and the
Central Valley. It has been fighting for several years with a union that accuses
it of mistreating workers.

For now, many of the popular chain's loyal customers remain unaware of the
controversy.

"That's kind of unexpected for a store like this," said Jonathan Rodriguez, 18,
as he helped his grandmother on Thursday stuff grocery bags into her trunk at
the Mi Pueblo store in central Hayward. "I don't think that's right. They are a
Mexican food center and they should be helping their community."

Another regular customer, Rafael Nuñez, said the "law is the law" and Mi Pueblo
is doing what it needs to do.

"In any country you go to, the law says you need papers to work," said Nuñez as
he went searching for a fresh mango with his young grandson.

Mi Pueblo signed up for E-Verify on Aug. 14, joining more than 30,400 California
employers and 109,205 work sites across the state that belong to the expanding
work-verification network, according to Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.

The San Jose-based grocer is also among a growing number of supermarkets in the
program.

Pleasanton-based Safeway uses E-Verify, but only in Arizona, where the state
requires its use. Modesto-based Save Mart, which includes the Lucky store brand,
also uses E-Verify to screen workers, as do Berkeley-based Grocery Outlet and
Berkeley Bowl and several Latino grocery chains such as Vallarta Supermarkets
and El Super, both based in Los Angeles County, according to the federal
government's list of all E-Verify employers.

Mi Pueblo joined upon the federal government's recommendation, said spokeswoman
Perla Rodriguez, who said it was a tough decision for company executives to
make.

"This is something many Hispanic grocery stores" have to deal with, she said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rogelio Marquez, from left, and Frank Harms, both of San Jose, attend a
news conference in San Jose, Calif., on Thursday, Sept. 6, 2012 to protest Mi
Pueblo's use of the federal E-Verify program. The Bay Area's largest Latino
grocery recently began using the voluntary internet-based program to check the
immigration status of all its new hires on a recommendation from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Employee Mariana Acedo, of San Jose, works the register at Mi Pueblo's flagship
location at the corner of Story and King Roads in San Jose, Calif., on Thursday,
Sept. 6, 2012. Members of the community held a a news conference to protest the
store's use of the federal E-Verify program. The Bay Area's largest Latino
grocery recently began using the voluntary internet-based program to check the
immigration status of all its new hires on a recommendation from the U.S.
Department of Homeland Security. (Anda Chu/Staff)
Owner Juvenal Chavez looks around the new Mi Pueblo grocery store while
preparations are under way for its opening this weekend in Pittsburg, Calif., on
Thursday, March 12, 2009. The roughly 50,000 square foot grocery includes a
large bakery, full-service meat and produce sections, a Mexican-style deli and
taqueria and a tortilleria -- where tortillas are made every day. More than
3,600 people applied for the 245 jobs the store created in East County. (Sherry
LaVars/Staff)
Victor Cristobal, of San Jose, speaks out at a news conference in San Jose,
Calif., on Thursday, Sept. 6, 2012 to protest Mi Pueblo's use of the federal
E-Verify program. The Bay Area's largest Latino grocery recently began using the
voluntary internet-based program to check the immigration status of all its new
hires on a recommendation from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. (Anda
Chu/Staff)
Employee Raul Pena, of San Jose, arranges limes in the produce section of Mi
Pueblo's flagship location at the corner of Story and King Roads in San Jose,
Calif., on Thursday, Sept. 6, 2012. Members of the community held a a news
conference to protest the store's use of the federal E-Verify program. The Bay
Area's largest Latino grocery recently began using the voluntary internet-based
program to check the immigration status of all its new hires on a recommendation
from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. (Anda Chu/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

The Education Report: Immigration policy and local high schools

BYLINE: By Katy Murphy Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 672 words


This is a sampling of The Education Report, Katy Murphy's Oakland schools blog.
Read more atIBAbuzz.com/education . Follow her atTwitter.com/katymurphy .

Sept. 5: A recent story in the Oakland Tribune examined how the federal
"deferred action for childhood arrivals" immigration policy might provide added
inspiration to some students to graduate from high school and go to college.

The program, announced in June, offers temporary deportation relief for those
brought to the country illegally when they were children as long as they were
younger than 31 on June 15 and have met certain educational (and other)
requirements.

According to the Migration Policy Institute, 20 percent of young immigrants
won't be able to benefit because they don't have a high school diploma or GED
and they're not in school. I wonder if that figure is even higher in Oakland,
where the four-year high school graduation rate is only 59 percent.

To help my colleague Matt O'Brien with some of the reporting, I spoke with Vidal
Gonzalez, who mentors a mostly Latino group of students from Oakland's Fremont
High, and Sandra Muniz, a high school senior who was born in Oakland, but has
friends who could benefit from the policy. Both said they thought the policy
would give students more inspiration to succeed academically.

Sandra's quote didn't make it into the piece, but she told me she felt that
immigration status was a major factor in students' academic drive, or lack
thereof. "Many students do not have the motivation because they believe, 'Oh,
I'm an immigrant child so there's no future for me,'" she said.

Do you agree? I know it's early, but have you seen or experienced a difference?

Another colleague, Theresa Harrington, reported a recent spike in GED enrollment
in the eastern side of Contra Costa County, which could be related to the
policy. Oakland's adult education program has lost most of its funding, but it's
still offering some GED courses at McClymonds High School in West Oakland, Dewey
Academy near Lake Merritt, Allen Temple in East Oakland and the Unity Council in
Fruitvale.

GED orientation sessions, in English and Spanish, will be at McClymonds High
School, starting Sept. 17. You can find the dates and other information
athttp://oaceonline.org .

Aug. 31: James Harris, a candidate for the Oakland school board's District 7
seat, faces an eligibility challenge from his opponent, incumbent Alice
Spearman. Harris lives in Sheffield Village, an Oakland neighborhood near the
San Leandro border. His address is in Oakland City Council District 7, but it's
listed in the attendance areas of both Grass Valley Elementary School in Oakland
Unified and Roosevelt Elementary School in San Leandro Unified. It's also
included in a map of the San Leandro school board's trustee area 2.

Harris said families in his neighborhood have the option of enrolling their
children in San Leandro or Oakland schools. At least one of his children is
attending Burckhalter Elementary in Oakland this year.

Spearman sought an injunction in court to prevent Harris' name from appearing on
the ballot until the matter was resolved, but her petition was denied today by a
visiting judge. The judge wrote that even if the evidence conclusively showed
that Harris lived in the San Leandro school district, "it is unclear whether the
fact would render him legally ineligible to run for Oakland School Board
Director for District 7 given the text of the City Charter."

The judge noted that Article 4, Section 404 of the city's charter states that
the school district boundaries are the same as the city council district
boundaries.

In an email, Harris said afterward: "The judge denied Ms. Spearman's ex parte
application to decertify me as a candidate. I look forward to turning our full
focus back towards mounting a vigorous campaign."

But Spearman says it's not over. "There's mountains of evidence that he's in the
San Leandro Unified School District," she said.

Marc Guillory, the attorney who filed the motion for Spearman, says a hearing
has been set for Oct. 3.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Nancy Pelosi to Gov. Brown: Sign immigration bill

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 353 words


A state bill that could lead to fewer deportations from California won an
influential endorsement Thursday when House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-San
Francisco, and most of California's Democratic congressional delegation sent a
letter urging Gov. Jerry Brown to sign it.

Opposed by most state sheriffs and backed by immigrant advocates, AB 1081, known
as the Trust Act, would restrict county and city jails from holding illegal
immigrants for deportation unless they have serious or violent felony charges or
convictions.

Both houses of the state Legislature voted to approve the bill last month,
sending it to Brown, who has until the end of this month to sign it.

The legislation presents a difficult choice for Brown, who as attorney general
signed a 2009 agreement with the federal government to launch the Secure
Communities program, which sends the fingerprints of everyone arrested by local
police to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Once their fingerprints flag inmates as being in the country illegally, federal
agents ask jails to hold them until the agents come pick them up for deportation
proceedings. The bill, however, would force jailers to release any immigrant
without a serious felony record after their local custody ends, such as when
their criminal charges, if they have any, are dismissed.

A handful of sheriffs, including Santa Clara County Sheriff Laurie Smith, have
endorsed the legislation, but most others have said the new limits would force
them to defy federal immigration enforcement prerogatives. Pelosi and the 21
other Democratic lawmakers rejected that argument in their letter to Brown on
Thursday.

"There should be no doubt that California has the legal authority to enact the
Trust Act and set sensible limits on the manner in which local law enforcement
officials respond to immigration detainers," the letter says. "By their own
terms, immigration detainers are merely requests that a law enforcement agency
continue to detain a person who should otherwise be released from custody."

Brown doesn't usually talk about bills before he takes action on them, his aides
have said.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 19, 2012 Wednesday

Immigration movement: 'Dreamers' organize CLOUD group to help others avoid
deportation

BYLINE: By Theresa Harrington Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 1211 words


RICHMOND -- When Carlos Martinez was 11 years old, he jumped the border in
Arizona between Mexico and the United States and made his way across a desert
for four days and three nights with his younger sister and a group of about 20
other immigrants, led by a "coyote," a person paid to smuggle people into the
country. After the journey, Martinez and his sister joined their mother in
Salinas.

He attended schools in the community and wanted to go to college but was told by
his high school counselor that he couldn't, because he was undocumented.

"I was the first in my family to graduate from high school, so that was a big
thing for my mom," the soft-spoken 23-year-old said recently. "But I didn't know
what was my future. So, I worked cutting lettuce in the fields for six or seven
months."

Martinez's future would not end in the fields. Today, he is the co-founder of
Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers, or CLOUD. The nascent group
has already held two large outreach events for immigrants interested in applying
for President Barack Obama's new deferred action program, which allows young
illegal immigrants to avoid deportation for at least two years and apply for
work permits and driver's licenses.

The core group, formed about three months ago, is collaborating with
organizations such as Catholic Charities to help educate people about the law
and screen them for eligibility. And the group's young leaders are determined to
help more people, with the goal of working toward wide-ranging changes in
immigration law.

"We are fighting for something bigger than just deferred action," said group
co-leader Jose Juan Reyes, 21, who emigrated from Mexico with the help of a
"coyote" when he was 8 years old. His mother was detained three times at the
border before getting through on her own. "We are fighting for comprehensive
immigration reform, which includes us, our parents, and something that would
lead to citizenship for us."

Martinez's journey from lettuce picker to immigration rights activist was helped
by a combination of timing and ambition.

In 2008, he heard about AB540, which exempts qualifying illegal immigrants from
paying higher out-of-state fees at state colleges. He enrolled at Hartnell
College in Salinas and cofounded a group to help undocumented students, "Mas
Fe," or "more faith."

Later, he transferred to San Francisco City College, where he got involved in a
group for the undocumented, Students Advocating for Equity, or SAFE. Soon
afterward, Martinez said he and a friend formed the first community college
resource center for undocumented students, Voices of Immigrants Demonstrating
Achievement, or VIDA.

"I've been organizing for five years with the undocumented movement," said
Martinez, who moved to Richmond about a year ago and began a civic engagement
internship with the Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Community Organization in
June. The internship was funded in part through a Dream Summer Scholarship.

It began three days after Obama announced the country would provide temporary
"deferred action" work permits and protection from deportation to immigrants who
were younger than 30 and had entered the country illegally before age 16. More
than 82,000 people have applied for the permits since the program was announced
a month ago.

The announcement opened a world of possibilities for Martinez. His internship
supervisors were excited about the law and asked him to help spread the word.

"This was a hot topic -- a new topic," Martinez recalled. "They said: 'Your job
is to start a new group.'"

The leaders' infectious spirit inspired Dina Barriere, 22, who came to
California at age 3 from El Salvador. She said her immigration status never
seemed to be an issue until she realized she couldn't get a driver's license.

"That's when my whole world came crashing down and I figured I wasn't going to
amount to anything," she said.

Later, she enrolled in San Francisco City College, where she met Martinez.

"Carlos has gotten me to where I am now in terms of leadership-building skills,
because he saw that I had the potential," she said.

"Now, he's created such a big movement in Richmond."

Adam Kruggel, executive director of the interfaith organization, said CLOUD is a
testament to the young immigrants' passion and integrity.

"In my opinion, this is part of a movement for freedom that has really captured
the hearts and imagination of the country," he said. "I am so excited about the
future of this country when you look at them and see how committed they are to
the idea of America -- especially when America did not welcome them with open
arms -- and see that they fought and fought to have a rightful place here. It's
only going to make our country a better place."

Martinez said the response has been incredible.

"What got me was, we met for less than a month and we were able to pull off this
event and 300 people showed up," he said. "It was all youths who took ownership
and decided, 'We're going to educate the community.' That's not going to go away
for me. I was surprised. I was shocked. It was so beautiful."

Staff writer Matt O'Brien contributed to this report.

About AB 540

The bill allows some undocumented students to be exempt from paying higher
out-of-state tuition at state public colleges and universities if they attended
a California high school for three or more years, received a California high
school diploma or equivalent, and submitted an affidavit to the college or
university declaring that they meet the above requirements and have filed an
application to adjust their immigration status or intend to file one.
California Dream Act
The act gives illegal immigrants access to need-based, state-funded scholarships
in the fall and Cal Grants and other state financial aid in 2013-14.
FEDERAL DEFERRED ACTION
It allows young illegal immigrants to seek temporary work permits, protection
from deportation and a California driver's license.
Two-year, renewable work permits are for immigrants 30 or younger as of June 15
and who brought to the United States illegally before age 16.
To qualify, immigrants must be in school, have earned a high school diploma or
equivalent, or served in the military.
Applicants cannot have committed any serious crimes and must have lived in the
country continuously since 2007.
A $465 fee is required.
Details about deferred action and how to apply are available by calling
800-375-5283 or by going towww.uscis.gov/childhoodarrivals . Details about the
California Dream Act are atwww.csac.ca.gov/dream_act.asp .

Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security, California Dream Network, MALDEF


About CLOUD

Full name: Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers
Mission statement: "We are a coalition of undocumented leaders and allies in the
Bay Area. We work to empower and educate the community of our struggles,
collectively striving to achieve equity."
Learn more: The organization is affiliated with the Contra Costa Interfaith
SupDetails are available by going toFacebook.com/bayareacloud
andTwitter.com/bayareacloud orhttp://ccisco.org . Some CLOUD members also are
part of the California Dream Network,www.cadreamnetwork.org .
Coverage: For details, including links to video clips of CLOUD members, go to
the On Assignment blog atIBAbuzz.com/onassignment .

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Leaders Carlos Martinez, left, and Jose Juan Reyes of Community Leaders
Organizing Undocumented Dreamers (CLOUD) and community organizer Claudia Jimenez
discuss future plans for the group since the Dream Act was passed during a
meeting at Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Organization (CCISCO) office in
Richmond, Calif., on Friday, Sept. 14, 2012. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Community organizer Claudia Jimenez, left, and leaders Carlos Martinez, center,
and Jose Juan Reyes of Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers
(CLOUD) discuss future plans for the group since the Dream Act was passed during
a meeting at Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Organization (CCISCO) office in
Richmond, Calif., on Friday, Sept. 14, 2012. (Ray Chavez/Staff)
Community organizer Claudia Jimenez, right, and leaders Carlos Martinez, left,
and Jose Juan Reyes of Community Leaders Organizing Undocumented Dreamers
(CLOUD) discuss future plans for the group since the Dream Act was passed during
a meeting at Contra Costa Interfaith Supporting Organization (CCISCO) office in
Richmond, Calif., on Friday, Sept. 14, 2012. (Ray Chavez/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

New Bay Area immigrants moving beyond 'melting pot' vs. 'salad bowl' debate

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien Bay Area News Group

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News

LENGTH: 838 words


When she founded the International Institute more than a century ago at a time
of increasing anxiety over immigration, social reformer Edith Terry Bremer
proposed a novel concept: To be American, you didn't have to forsake everything
you left behind.

Bremer has fallen into obscurity, but her philosophy still guides immigrants
such as Haile Negussie, who enjoys a comforting support network in the Bay
Area's strong Ethiopian community even as he tries to "learn different things"
and "meet different people."

His story is common in the Bay Area, where nearly 1 out of every 3 people was
born in another country, and where many immigrants have successfully integrated
themselves into the region's civic and economic fabric even as they sustain a
polyglot web of cultures and languages.

Like generations of immigrants before him, Negussie was still grappling with his
new American identity when he took his oath of citizenship last week at a
Redwood City ceremony hosted by the International Institute of the Bay Area, one
of dozens of organizations descended from Bremer's 1910 community center in
Manhattan.

"It means a lot to me, the whole freedom and all that, but I'm still trying to
understand what it means," said Negussie, an Ethiopian immigrant and biomedical
engineer. "You're giving up your country. I'm still digesting it."

Bremer believed that immigrants did not have to submit to a uniform American
identity; they could transition into U.S. society, become citizens and learn
English while preserving the values, heritage and languages they brought with
them. And they could use some help, she said, preferably from fellow immigrants
who could ease them into a new culture and economy.

Immigrants now comprise about 27 percent of California's population and more
than 30 percent in the Bay Area's biggest counties, a proportion similar to
early 20th century America when Bremer's organization began expanding around the
country. In San Francisco and Santa Clara counties, 37 percent of residents are
immigrants.

Pundits continue to debate her multicultural vision and the competing idea of
melting-pot assimilation, but for most immigrants, the process is more
complicated: a personal journey, not an ideological stance.

Negussie, a 32-year-old who designs HIV test kits for a San Francisco firm, has
come a long way since he came to the United States a decade ago. On his first
trip to McDonald's, he nervously studied the menu and prepared his English words
to order.

Then, a cashier asked, "Do you want it here or to go?"

He stared blankly, not understanding the question. "I don't know," was all he
could say.

Thankfully, said Negussie, the fast-food servers and most Americans he's known
over the years have supported his adjustment. He improved his English with
classes and now speaks fluently and has a diverse group of friends, but it also
helps, he said, that the Bay Area has such a tightly knit Ethiopian community.
He was among thousands at an Ethiopian New Year celebration on Sept. 15 in North
Oakland.

Also straddling two cultures are Peruvian immigrants Jessica Tara and her
mother, Luz Castillo, who became citizens at the same ceremony as Negussie.

As a stay-at-home mom of two young children, Belmont resident Tara meets "warm
and friendly" non-Peruvians at school and local events, but finds it hard to get
to know them.

"We just say hi, and bye, and talk a little bit," Tara said. "I can't say I have
a lot of American friends. I just have a lot of Latin friends from different
countries who speak Spanish, just like me."

Tara said she is proud to be an American citizen now and excited to vote for the
first time, while she also values the rich culture and family values of her
Peruvian upbringing. "You can still live in your culture here," Tara said.
"We're trying to educate our kids in the same way we were educated. They love
Peruvian music, they love Peruvian food. We're trying to go to Peru once a
year."

In an increasingly connected world, few immigrant-service organizations talk of
"assimilation" as a goal. They instead emphasize how well immigrants integrate
into the economic, social and civic fabric of American life.

By those measures, the Bay Area performs remarkably well, especially in Silicon
Valley and the East Bay, according to an "Immigrant Integration Scorecard"
released earlier this month by the University of Southern California.

Compared with other parts of California, the report found that most immigrants
in the South Bay and East Bay are doing relatively well economically and have
seen improvements in their lifetimes and have high rates of citizenship. Part of
the reason, the report said, was the warm welcome they get from local
organizations and agencies, such as those that offer English-language classes.

"The more you feel part of a community, the more likely you're going to want to
fully participate," said Ellen Dumesnil, director of the International Institute
of the Bay Area.

"And part of feeling like part of a community is being welcomed by the people
already there."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New U.S. Citizens recite the oath of allegiance during a swearing-in
ceremony held in Redwood City, Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2012. The U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services administered the oath to 20 new citizens at
the Fair Oaks Community Center. (Anda Chu/Staff)
The Song Birds from the Redwood City Veterans Memorial senior center perform the
national anthem at a swearing-in ceremony for new U.S. Citizens in Redwood City,
Calif., on Wednesday, Sept. 19, 2012. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services gave the oath of citizenship to 20 new citizens at the Fair Oaks
Community Center. (Anda Chu/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Microsoft suggests charging employers for extra worker visas

BYLINE: By Kyung M. Song Seattle Times

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; News; Business; High-Tech; Science and Tech

LENGTH: 540 words


WASHINGTON -- Faced with 6,000 job openings and a Congress unresponsive to
admitting more skilled workers from overseas, Microsoft on Thursday offered what
it hopes will be a twofer solution: charging employers hundreds of millions of
dollars for the right to hire more foreigners and using the money for
educational training to eventually fill those jobs with Americans.

The proposal, which Microsoft unveiled in Washington, D.C., is the company's
most public foray into the protracted ideological battle over immigration reform
and quotas on temporary visas for high-skill foreign workers.

Microsoft is attempting to sidestep such controversies as citizenship for
undocumented immigrants that led Senate Republicans to block a comprehensive
reform bill in 2010. Instead, the Redmond, Wash.-based software giant framed the
issue in stark economic terms -- in a nation beset by high unemployment rates,
six-figure-salary jobs are going begging for qualified hires, particularly
minorities.

For instance, the U.S. is expected to add an average of 120,000 computer-related
jobs requiring at least a bachelor's degree for each of the next 10 years. But
colleges and universities are minting half as many graduates as needed.

"It's a problem that's approaching dimensions of a genuine crisis," said Brad
Smith, Microsoft executive vice president and general counsel. Smith held a
briefing for reporters at Microsoft's D.C. office on K Street before his speech
at the Brookings Institution, a nonpartisan think tank.

Microsoft is calling on Congress to create 20,000 new H-1B visas solely for jobs
in science, technology, engineering or mathematics, also called STEM. The
current annual cap is 65,000 visas, about half of which are claimed for
computer-related occupations. Microsoft requested an average of 4,100 H-1B visas
annually between 2010 and 2011, more than any other corporation.

In addition, Microsoft wants the federal government to release 20,000 green
cards each year from a backlog of a half-million so STEM workers could remain in
the United States as permanent residents. Without a green card, an H-1B visa
holder's stay is limited to a total of six years.

Smith said companies could pay $10,000 for each new H-1B visa. Large employers
now pay $1,500 apiece, along with several thousand dollars more in various fees.
The proposed "investment" for a green card would be $15,000. Altogether, Smith
said, the fees would bring in $500 million a year.

Microsoft laid out detailed plans for how that money might be deployed. It
called for hiring and training more STEM teachers for kindergarten through 12th
grade and making advanced placement computer-science courses available in 95
percent of U.S. high schools that currently lack them, among others things.

Smith called the new $10,000 fee for an H-1B visa a small one-time investment. A
typical Microsoft programmer or software engineer hire might command a salary of
$100,000 to $120,000, plus a $20,000 signing bonus. Add $50,000 in stock
options, plus the cost of an office and other expenses, Smith said, and total
cost might add up to $200,000.

Although the proposal is being offered by Microsoft, Smith said the plan has
support from information-technology companies and trades groups.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A new Microsoft Corp. logo, left, is seen on an exterior wall of a new
Microsoft store inside the Prudential Center mall, in Boston, Thursday, Aug. 23,
2012. The introduction of the new logo marks the first time that Microsoft Corp
has revamped its logo in 25 years. (AP Photo/Steven Senne)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

Brown signs bill allowing young immigrants to get driver's licenses

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien and Troy Wolverton Bay Area News Group

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 952 words


SACRAMENTO -- Gov. Jerry Brown had both good and bad news for undocumented
immigrants and their advocates Sunday night, signing one bill that could ease
their lives while vetoing another.

The bill that Brown signed will allow thousands of young California immigrants
to receive a California driver's license. The one he rejected would have limited
the ability of local jails to hold immigrants for federal deportation
proceedings.

Under the latter bill, AB1081 by Democratic Assemblyman Tom Ammiano of San
Francisco, jails would only be able to hold for possible deportation those
immigrants who had previously committed or were accused of violent crimes. But
that limitation would leave out immigrants who had been convicted of crimes such
as child abuse, drug trafficking and selling weapons, Brown said in his veto
message.

"The list of offenses codified in the bill is fatally flawed because it omits
many serious crimes," Brown wrote.

It was one of about 100 bills that Brown either vetoed or signed on Sunday, his
last day to act on bills sent to him by the Legislature when its session ended
in August. He also signed a bill that could one day free some criminals who were
sentenced as juveniles to life in prison, and another making California the
first state to ban a form of psychotherapy aimed at making gay teenagers
straight.

Brown also signed a bill that will force parents who don't want to have their
children vaccinated to get a note from a doctor's office before enrolling them
in school.

AB2109 will require parents who enroll students who have not received the
required public school vaccines to get a waiver from a physician or a nurse
practitioner, saying they have received information about the benefits and risks
of immunization. The new requirement will go into effect Jan. 1, 2014.

Among the vetoed bills were one that would have let judges declare that some
California children have more than two legal parents and another increasing the
media's access to prison inmates.

Brown said he was sympathetic with the aim of Ammiano's bill, and the governor
vowed to work with the Legislature to fix the problems he found in it.

Brown had better news for young immigrants seeking work.

The Obama administration recently announced a program to grant temporary work
permits and a reprieve from possible deportation to undocumented immigrants 30
and younger who were brought to this country before they turned 16 and who meet
other requirements such as having a clean record and a high school diploma.

Under the law Brown signed, AB2189, by Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles,
those immigrants who qualify for the Obama program would also be allowed to get
driver's licenses. The governor didn't immediately comment on why he signed the
legislation, but the bill's backers cheered the decision.

Thanks to the new law, "this group of young immigrants, who have dreamed of
driving, will join our roadways tested, licensed and insured," Assemblywoman
Nancy Skinner, D-Berkeley, said in a statement.

The issue has been settled in some states -- Texas, Virginia and Oregon among
them -- that have said they will allow driver's licenses for immigrants
obtaining what the Obama administration calls "deferred action for childhood
arrivals."

Arizona and Nebraska have pledged to deny driver's licenses to anyone who
benefits from the federal relief.

Nationwide, more than 100,000 young immigrants have applied for the deferred
deportations since the Department of Homeland Security began accepting
applications on Aug. 15, but only a few dozen have been approved. Federal
officials have left it up to state governments to decide if they will grant
licenses and other benefits to those getting the work authorization.

California's DMV originally said it would grant the licenses, since it already
accepts federal work permits as a valid form of documentation, but later said
the state would need to clarify its rules. The law signed by Brown on Sunday
does just that.

California voters oppose giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants on a 56
percent to 40 percent margin, but it is an important issue to Latino voters, 60
percent of whom support the licenses, according to a Field Poll released Friday.
The poll did not specifically ask about Cedillo's bill, which affects a more
limited population of youths who came to the country as children.

The same poll found 67 percent of California voters support a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants if they meet certain requirements.

Ammiano's bill, known as the Trust Act, had a strong following. In addition to
Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and hundreds of other activists, the bill
has won endorsements from celebrity advocates in the past week, from actor
Martin Sheen to Los Angeles Catholic Cardinal Roger Mahoney.

The bill was aimed at lessening the high number of deportations that have come
through the Secure Communities network, which sends the fingerprints of everyone
arrested in the state to federal agents, who then request local law enforcement
to detain suspected illegal immigrants after their local custody is completed.
Brown, as attorney general, signed the state-federal partnership in 2009 and
defended the program throughout his 2010 campaign for governor.

The Obama administration considers Secure Communities a centerpiece of its
enforcement priorities to deport criminals from the country, but critics say the
program deports far too many non-criminals and people picked up for traffic
violations and other low-level offenses.

Most of the state's county sheriffs opposed the bill, saying it would interfere
with their work and force them to defy federal enforcement prerogatives.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov. Jerry Brown meets with the Bay Area News Group's editorial boards
at the San Jose Mercury News in San Jose, Calif. on Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2012. The
Governor visited the newspaper to talk about his tax-hike measure on November's
ballot. (Gary Reyes/ Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Driver licenses for undocumented Californians get lukewarm response

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; State

LENGTH: 635 words


SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 10/3/2012, pg. 2A)
A story about a California driver's license law signed by Gov. Jerry Brown
misspelled the name of a Department of Motor Vehicles spokesman. He is Mike
Marando.

A law signed by Gov. Jerry Brown late Sunday night qualifying hundreds of
thousands of undocumented Californians for drivers' licenses found a lukewarm
response from the young immigrants it is supposed to benefit.

"We're tired of being used -- as Dreamers, as immigrant youth -- as a political
football," said Carlos Amador, who said the bill was symbolic and does little
that is not long-standing policy at the state Department of Motor Vehicles.

The bill, AB 2189, was one of the last of hundreds Brown signed before his
midnight Sunday deadline and made national news within hours. It links
California to a new Obama administration "deferred action" deportation relief
policy granting work permits to illegal immigrants no older than 30 who came to
the United States as children.

The California bill makes clear that anyone approved for an Obama administration
work permit can now get a state driver's license.

"President Obama has recognized the unique status of these students, and making
them eligible to apply for driver's licenses is an obvious next step," said
Brown spokesman Gil Duran, in a written release Monday.

Some 400,000 Californians could be eligible for the federal work permits, but
experts and activists said they probably didn't need the new legislation to get
a license.

"They almost positively could have gotten driver's licenses regardless," said
Angela Chan of the San Francisco-based Asian Law Caucus. "In California, you
need a Social Security number (to get a license), and with deferred action you
can get a Social Security number."

Many of the activists are upset that Brown appealed to immigrant and Latino
communities with a passable but seemingly unnecessary license bill while
simultaneously vetoing more controversial legislation, such as two bills
proposed by Assemblyman Tom Ammiano, D-San Francisco, that would have expanded
the labor rights of domestic workers and restricted deportations of people
arrested for minor crimes.

"Good for you on the driver's licenses," said Ammiano, but "lip service is not
what we want. We want real policy."

Democrats who sponsored the driver's license bill said no was certain when the
bill was proposed more than a month ago what documents the Obama administration
would be distributing.

"We didn't want to wait" for the state to have to navigate those obstacles, said
Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner, D-Berkeley, who co-sponsored the license bill with
Assemblyman Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles.

"We know the way California is designed it is very difficult to function here
without being able to drive," Skinner said.

DMV spokesman Mike Marando acknowledged that existing regulations would allow
newly sanctioned immigrants with Obama administration paperwork to get a
license, but he said Brown's signature codifies those rules and standardizes
them in case the federal government changes its forms.

Still, Brown's choices disappointed youth advocates hoping he would take a
bigger stand on immigration policy in his weekend bill signing. "The driver's
license bill was a symbol more than anything," said Blanca Vasquez, a San
Francisco State student without legal residency who has lived in the United
States since her infancy. "It was a big distraction."

The bill won Brown no accolades on the other side of the aisle. Although a
handful of Republican lawmakers joined Democrats in backing the bill, others
said driving is an important state benefit that only legal residents should
enjoy.

"I think Gov. Brown just made our state less safe, and he made a mockery of the
California driver's license," said Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, R-Twin Peaks.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gov. Jerry Brown meets with the Bay Area News Group's editorial boards
at the San Jose Mercury News in San Jose, Calif. on Sept. 11, 2012. The Governor
visited the newspaper to talk about his tax-hike measure on November's ballot.
(Gary Reyes/ Staff)
Gov. Jerry Brown meets with the Bay Area News Group's editorial boards at the
San Jose Mercury News in San Jose, Calif. on Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2012. The
Governor visited the newspaper to talk about his tax-hike measure on November's
ballot. (Gary Reyes/ Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

Conference: Immigration and faith Saturday at Mills College

BYLINE: By Katy Murphy Oakland Tribune

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 177 words


OAKLAND -- Immigration, social justice and spirituality are the focus of an
all-day event Saturday at Mills College in Oakland.

The "Faith, Youth & Immigration" conference, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., is open to
the public. It will offer a series of workshops on issues facing newcomers,
particularly those who are Muslim and South Asian. A panel of five young
immigrants, including a religious minority, a refugee and the daughter of a
recent deportee, will share their stories.

The Rev. Deborah Lee, director of the Interfaith Coalition for Immigrant Rights,
will speak about the faith and rights of the young immigrants.

"Throughout history, faith-rooted social justice movements have toppled
dictators and transformed our understanding of human rights," Lee said in a
prepared statement. "Seeing immigration through the lens of faith can bring
about understanding, respect for each of our migration stories and humane
treatment and dignity for all."

The conference is co-sponsored by the United Religions Initiative, a global
interfaith network based in San Francisco.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 15, 2012 Monday

Local Realtors think globally to better serve foreign clients

BYLINE: By Rose Meily, for Silicon Valley Community Newspapers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Los Gatos; News; Local

LENGTH: 643 words


Growing foreign interest in local real estate has prompted the Silicon Valley
Association of Realtors to embark on a global initiative to provide members
educational opportunities to better serve foreign and immigrant clients.

"The business of real estate is becoming more global," said Suzanne Yost,
president of the local trade association. "Our association would like to provide
members with tools and resources that can help them succeed in this market."

According to the National Association of Realtors, purchases from foreign buyers
last year reached $82.5 billion. California was second after Florida in
attracting foreign buyers. Foreign buyers paid a higher median price and paid
cash 55 percent of the time.

The local trade association has formed a Global Business Council charged with
the task of planning global programs, hosting global education courses and
identifying international business opportunities in the region. The council will
help real estate agents work with foreign clients and build partnerships with
globally minded businesses, mortgage brokers, attorneys and other relevant local
entities.

At a global potluck hosted by the group this month, mortgage consultants Kenneth
Chan of HSBC and Evelyn Figueira of Citi indicated new immigrants and foreign
nationals have different lending requirements. Many have difficulty moving funds
from their country and verifying their foreign income and assets. The lenders
said it was important to spend the time with foreign clients, educate and
prepare them for the loan process.

"It's not as simple as having money to buy property. For some foreigners, the
issue of all issues is their bank account, where large deposits go in and out,"
said Chan. "This may not be a big deal for foreign investors, but it raises a
red flag to underwriters," explained Chan.

Janet Case, CEO of Proxio, said the international MLS can help agents extend
their market reach and gain a competitive advantage. The network provides agents
and their listings global visibility by connecting U.S.-based agents with other
agents internationally.

According to Michael Repka, managing broker of DeLeon Realty, foreign investors
are drawn to the valley because of its business opportunities, stability and
appreciation potential. Seeing this as an opportunity, some real estate
companies have begun directly marketing properties and their companies to
foreign buyers.

Zach Benjamin of the National Association of Realtors was in town for the
occasion and identified global tools and resources, like NAR's Certified
International Property Specialist designation. CIPS provides training in
international business issues such as currency conversion, legal and tax
requirements, and specifics on real estate markets in Europe, the Americas, the
Middle East/Africa and Asia.

The Silicon Valley Association of Realtors is offering business professionals
the opportunity to complete classroom requirements for the CIPS designation on
Nov. 26 through 30. Taught by David Wyant, 2009 NAR international instructor of
the year, the five-day CIPS Institute will include two core courses and three
elective courses required for the designation.

"Our members are certainly recognizing that global is good business," said
Jennifer Tasto, who is a CIPS designee and the local group's global business
council chair. "We are in the heart of Silicon Valley. We need to pay attention
to what's going on around us."

The CIPS courses are open to the public. You do not need to be engaged in real
estate to enroll. "Employees of businesses with operations overseas have
benefitted from these courses, as well," said Tasto.

For more information or to register for the CIPS courses, consumers can call
408.200.0100.

Information in this column is presented by the Silicon Valley Association of
Realtors atwww.silvar.org . Send questions tormeily@silvar.org .

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

Separated by law: Families torn apart by 1996 immigration measure

BYLINE: By Susan Ferriss and Amy Isackson The Center for Public Integrity,
California Report

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 4035 words


In a nation built by immigrants, they thought they could pursue their American
Dream - with loved ones at their side. Instead, they're living an American
nightmare that's tearing families apart and forcing Americans into exile.

Chris Xitco, a native of Los Angeles, never imagined that after marrying his
wife Delia in 2002 and trying to legalize her, she'd end up barred by U.S.
officials for life, with no pardon even possible for 10 years. She now lives
south of Tijuana, Mexico, alone with the couple's two small children.

T.J. Barbour, a native of San Diego, has been struggling every day to care for a
10-year-old son, since his wife Maythe was deported and then barred from the
United States in 2011 for what could be 20 years.

In central North Carolina, Anita Mann Perez has been financially ruined trying
to raise three small children since her husband Jorge was exiled for 10 years in
2007. Now she's moved to Mexico to join him.

Across the country, as illegal immigrants have settled into communities, they
have met Americans, fallen in love, married and had children. But when Americans
have voluntarily stepped up to sponsor their spouses for legal residency,
believing this was the right thing to do, they've been shocked to discover their
citizenship does not trump mandatory penalties the spouses must face. Far from
it.

These penalties, which "bar" the spouses from the U.S. for years at a time, were
instituted by Congress in 1996 specifically to punish immigration-related
offenses.

Since then, the law governing such situations - and the way it's applied -has
taken a number of twists and turns. Over that time period, waivers have helped
many people. And in January, President Obama announced a plan to tweak the
procedure by which citizens' spouses apply for residency, a change that could
eventually spare many more families from long, painful separations. But the
change isn't likely to go into effect this year, and it isn't retroactive. And
while thousands stand to benefit, thousands of others simply won't qualify for
easier access to "hardship waivers" that the president proposes - and will be
trapped by the small print of the 1996 law. (A dizzying series of legal twists
and turns"), which could benefit some of its members. Eventually. But the
proposed change is not bringing any relief to Americans who are already
separated from husbands, wives and children.The Xitco family

Chris Xitco, 49, says that with everything he and his wife have gone through,
life feels like it's "her and me, against the world."

They have two kids, Elisa, 6, and Itzamal, a 1-year-old son.

Chris met Delia, now in her mid-thirties, more than a dozen years ago on the job
at a produce-packing company in the Los Angeles area. Chris is not Hispanic, but
he spoke some Spanish because he grew up with Mexican workers on a family farm,
and he used to surf south of Tijuana as a youth.

The two began to date, Delia taking him to see Latin music concerts. He took her
to see him surf.

Delia originally hailed from Nayarit, a state in western Mexico. Chris knew that
she had crossed the border illegally, that she'd been caught once in the Arizona
desert, detained overnight and then tried again to enter and was successful.

But he knew so many other people who had done the same thing, who were desperate
to work. The border, he said, "was a joke for so long." And he didn't think
Delia's offense was unforgivable. He knew it was rare to impossible for Mexicans
to get work visas, and she came from a poor part of Mexico where jobs were
scarce and many had already blazed the familiar trail north.

When the two decided to marry in 2002, Chris was 38, and he and Delia were eager
to get settled and have children. Chris said he knew he had to take care of
business by legalizing Delia, but he "thought it was a lock because I was a
citizen."

He was so nacve, he said, that he took Delia right into the immigration office
of a Los Angeles federal building. He approached a security guard and told him
the couple was there because he wanted to "fix" his wife's papers.

"He put his arm around my shoulder, did a U-turn," Chris remembered, and ushered
Chris and Delia toward the door. The guard did him a big favor, Chris said he
realized later. Technically, his wife could have been taken into custody right
then and there. The guard gave Chris the address of a website to consult as they
were walking out.

In 2003, Chris contacted an attorney, who explained how the law had changed, and
suggested that Chris and Delia save their money and hope that Congress would
change the laws again.

But Chris returned to the lawyer in 2004. The lawyer did a Justice Department
background check on Delia and found no record of deportation. Perhaps when she
was quickly turned back at the border once, the lawyer reasoned, it didn't
count.

So they started the application process.

Delia was pregnant when they got word she had an interview appointment, in
Juarez, Mexico. The couple didn't want to risk any chance that the baby would be
born in Mexico, fearing that it might jeopardize Delia's application. They asked
for a delay.

Delia and Chris finally went to Mexico for her interview in October 2007, when
Elisa was 16 months old. Chris' parents were thrilled with the new grandchild;
Delia's English was improving and bonds with Chris's family were growing
tighter.

Chris, as spouse, wasn't allowed into the interview, which is standard
procedure.

When Delia emerged and told him she'd been barred, Chris said it really hit him:
there would be no special treatment simply because Chris was an American
citizen. And his daughter's birth didn't change the situation.

"They don't seem to think, well, what about the daughter? She doesn't count?" he
says. "The system doesn't have a heart. And it doesn't have a brain."

Delia took Elisa and flew to Nayarit. Chris went to Los Angeles. In December
2007 they met in Juarez for a new interview, a hardship waiver interview with
the consular office there. Chris argued that he'd be crushed to lose baby Elisa
for 10 years, but couldn't fathom separating her from Delia. But that argument
didn't work. Chris failed to prove that he, as the American citizen spouse, was
suffering extraordinary hardship beyond the pain expected by separation.

From there, things went downhill. Delia returned to Nayarit with Elisa. Chris
found himself trying to explain over and over to family and friends what the
rules were. He flew to Nayarit every few months, but over time, his daughter
failed to recognize him, which broke his heart. He called local congressional
representatives, whose staff expressed sympathy but urged him to get a different
lawyer.

The Xitcos started the whole residency application process again. This time
Chris wanted to be better prepared for what he thought would be a subsequent
waiver interview. He amassed letters of support from family, a psychiatrist's
evaluation, copies of anti-depressant prescriptions, his Army discharge records.
He paid thousands of dollars more in fees, for Delia's medical exams,
vaccinations and other requisites and travel.

At 10:15 a.m. on April 7, 2010, Delia went to her appointment in Juarez. Chris
waited with the baby outside. Delia emerged from the consulate and told Chris
she was not eligible for a waiver and would have to ask for a pardon in November
2017.

A records check, she learned, had turned up a report that she had entered the
United States after being caught once. It was the first time U.S. consular
officials had said anything about her being disqualified because she had crossed
more than once.

Devastated, Chris moved Delia up to Rosarito, a beach town 30 miles south of
Tijuana that's developing a community of deportees and barred family members of
U.S. citizens.

He has settled into a grueling routine of commuting, but seethes when he
discusses what happened.

He is now "couch surfing," sleeping at work or friends' places. For more than a
year, he hasn't been able to afford his own home in the Los Angeles area. He's
still working in the produce-distribution business. He manages to beg off work a
bit early every Friday and drive down to Rosarito, which can mean brutal, three-
or four-hour slogs through bumper-to-bumper traffic.

Returning to the United States at weekend's end is even worse. Chris is
perpetually exhausted because on Mondays he has to sit in three hours of traffic
just to get a few miles over the border, and then drive on to Los Angeles,
another three hours.

Every penny he makes and nearly all his energy goes into managing this
separation, Chris said. He can't get a job in Tijuana, he said, because the
earnings are too low, and he feels he's too old.

Chris is paying for a private school in Rosarito for Elisa, but the instruction
is in Spanish, not English. Chris tries to engage her in English, but she
answers in Spanish. She can sing a version of the ABC song with a heavy Spanish
accent. She can say "see you later," and "bye" and she understands what the
Fourth of July is about.

Chris is worried how she'll fare later if and when she enters school in the
United States. She'll be ready for junior high by then.

He said his greatest fear, being three to four hours away, is that he won't be
able to protect his family. The house Delia and the children are in has high
walls, but thieves broke in once already and looted it. It's in an area with a
lot of transients, people who don't know one another, and Delia feels she can no
longer go out for very long periods of time.

"I don't trust the neighbors," she said. She has no friends nearby, nor
relatives, and restricts her socializing to other mothers at school.

Still, having the family in Rosarito is better than in Nayarit, Chris said.
Delia and Elisa had to hit the floor in a shopping center during a gang shootout
there.

Chris said he doesn't think illegal immigrants shouldn't be penalty-free if they
marry and their spouses want to legalize them. But he thinks a decade-long bar
is cruel not just to Delia, but to him and his children.

"She didn't sell any drugs. She doesn't know anything about gang signs," he
says. "Crossing the border to look for a job isn't that much of a crime to
me."The Barbour family

T.J. Barbour, a software engineer in his early thirties, knows what he is doing
every Wednesday night and every weekend.

The San Diego resident leaves his Rancho Bernardo neighborhood, packs his car
with household supplies he can buy for less in the United States, like toilet
paper, and drives over the San Diego-Tijuana border on those Wednesdays through
heavy traffic to see his wife. Their son Lucas, 10, goes with him. They come
back before dawn Thursday morning. And then they return on the weekends, so the
boy can spend time with his mother, who lives in a small apartment just south of
Tijuana.

After getting a late start one recent Saturday, T.J. pulls up to mom's place at
night, with Lucas asleep in the back. Maythe reaches in and embraces him, and
helps him stagger into the house while she asks him, in English, how his
American grandparents are doing.

On Monday morning, before dawn, Maythe helps Lucas into the car so he can sleep
a bit more - he has to go to school - and T.J. checks underneath the vehicle to
make sure drug smugglers haven't attached a box to the bottom of the car, a
popular way to get goods across that can later be retrieved.

Maythe drives the car close to the border crossing so son and husband can get
some sleep and then she takes two buses home. It is a grueling routine. She
cries bitterly in relating how - despite being married to T.J. - she was
deported from the United States and told she would remain in Mexico for 20 years
before being able to join her family again.

"I recognize that one commits an error by crossing [the border]," Maythe said in
Spanish. "But sometimes necessity makes you do things."

T.J. was just out of high school in San Diego when he met Maythe, at Burger
King, about a dozen years ago. He tried out some rudimentary Spanish on his
pretty co-worker, and it clicked. "I definitely saw something special about
her," he says.

Maythe was reluctant to get involved because she already had a young daughter to
support, and was struggling to pay off medical bills in Mexico. She was also
trying to get away from a threatening experience back in her home in Mexico's
southern Guerrero state, a history T.J. says was so traumatic he won't discuss
it.

Little by little, the two fell in love. "I have no doubt we were meant to be
together," T.J. said. He admired her hard work, and her devotion to her
daughter, whom he adopted and is now also sponsoring for legal status - a
process he hopes will be more forgiving since she grew up in San Diego.

T.J. knew that Maythe had tried to get over the border twice, and was caught the
first time. A smuggler told her to sit in a car and not say anything if a guard
asked for her papers. She and others were caught. The smuggler then put her into
the trunk of a car with tiny holes in it to let in air. She made it that time,
and subsequently found jobs at an Olive Garden restaurant and Burger King, among
others.

"Like most people," T.J. said, "I was under the impression that, well, if she
gets married to me, we're set."

They consulted with a lawyer before they married in 2002, and T.J. was shocked
to learn that it wasn't that easy. The lawyer explained the complexities of the
law, and what they were in for, but thought Maythe might get a waiver. The
couple decided to go slow, out of fear.

Eventually, a paralegal reviewing their case told them that Maythe's previous
deportation would disqualify her from a hardship waiver and they'd be better off
hoping Congress made changes.

"It was basically back to living in the shadows," T.J. said.

Maythe gave birth to Lucas, and T.J. graduated from college and started his
career as a software engineer. He began a graduate program. They owned a home
and Maythe "did all those mom things," taking Lucas to school, participating in
his class activities and cooking tasty meals.

It all fell apart when Maythe was stopped in 2010 by a police officer in the San
Diego community of Escondido who wondered why she was driving slowly. She had
been looking for a friend's address. The officer called immigration agents.

T.J. said he had contacted the office of his congressman, Rep. Brian Bilbray, a
Republican known for tough talk on illegal immigration. T.J says an office
staffer assured him that Maythe would probably not be deported.

T.J. said an immigration agent suggested to him, informally, that the couple
accept Maythe being deported, and that maybe she could come back soon with a
waiver. T.J. kept thinking he had additional rights as a citizen, and refused.
He decided to fight to keep Maythe, and filed a petition in a last-ditch bid to
get her asylum based on trauma she'd been through in the past.

While waiting for a hearing, Maythe was confined to a detention center in San
Diego County for five months. She didn't see her children once because she and
T.J. agreed it would be horrible for them to see her there.

When Maythe had her asylum hearing, T.J. packed the immigration court with
co-workers, family and friends. Lucas sat with him in the front.

"I always thought, 'Look, they've got to be going after criminals, after the
narco-traffickers and everything,' " T.J. said. "What are they going to do with
a little housewife?"

The judge denied Maythe's bid for asylum, which would have let her remain in the
United States. The judge, T.J. said, rushed from the court with no explanation.
He said lawyers told him that judges fear that if they give too many Mexicans
asylum, too many more will ask for it.

Maythe was deported in early 2011. Agents left her in Tijuana, she said, with
nothing but the clothes she was wearing when detained and a cell phone with a
dead battery. She had to beg for people to let her call T.J.

Because of her two deportations, T.J. said he's been advised, she will be barred
from trying to obtain legal residency and re-entering the United States for 20
years.

Maythe spent her first nights alone in Tijuana standing on a border bridge, she
said, crying so hard a guard told her he was concerned she would kill herself.

Her health deteriorated, and the whole family began to put on pounds. Maythe got
a job that paid about $10 a day to hand out fliers for business. She began to
turn to her parents' Jehovah's Witness faith. She found a congregation in
Tijuana, and T.J. joined as well. Now when he visits they spend part of that
time dressed nicely and making rounds to spread the faith.



T.J. is concerned about the long-term impact of the separation from his mother.
Both parents worry about the draining physical and psychological impact of Lucas
being packed into the car and spending hours inching through traffic as they
cross the border every weekend.

Lucas can't really participate in sports or weekend activities now, T.J. says,
and he's so busy balancing job and home that all he can do is throw together a
quick dinner for his son and keep the house from being a mess.

Maythe says it wouldn't be right to pull Lucas, who doesn't speak Spanish, out
of school and move him to Mexico to be with her. He doesn't like the food in
Mexico, she said. He doesn't feel comfortable. "His life is there, everything he
knows," she says. "I still feel he loves me. He makes an effort to come, and he
says he misses me. But I am not a part of his total life now."

Mandatory bars, T.J. says, don't fit the crime, and they've stripped immigration
judges and other officials of the discretion to consider the entirety of a
person's life and family situation.

"I want people to know that, hey, we U.S. citizens are really hurting here, and
our children are," T.J. says. "The family ramifications of this have to be taken
into account. We need to deal with the fact that people have become a part of
the fabric of our society."The Mann Perez Family

It took 10 minutes for the consular officer in Juarez, Mexico, to look through
Jorge Perez's application packet for residency and tell him he was barred for 10
years from re-entering the United States, starting that very day in 2007.

"He said, 'Ok, that's it. You can go now,' " Perez, reached by phone in Mexico,
remembered.

When Jorge, now 42, told wife Anita what had happened, her world collapsed.

"When I tell people what I've gone through, they're shocked. They think it's
crazy that an American citizen would have to live in another country for 10
years to be with their spouse," Anita said. She grew up in Graham, North
Carolina, not far from Durham, and most of her close-knit family still lives
there.

Since Jorge's barring, she's lost the home they were buying, spent all her
retirement savings and had to move in with her parents.

This month, Anita, 34, quit a job she enjoyed at a local hospital as an aide in
a clinic and packed up some belongings. She moved with the couple's 7-year-old
twins and nearly 2-year-old daughter to join Jorge again. This will be Anita's
third attempt to live in Jorge's remote town near the Guatemalan border. But she
knows it will not be easy.

"At least [in Graham] I know my girls get three square meals and a snack," she
said. Jorge has been trying to get by growing tomatoes. He built a house there
with money he saved working in the States, but what he and Anita really wanted
to do was build a life for themselves in Graham.

Anita met Jorge at a restaurant in Graham, where he had arrived in 2000 after
getting across the border on foot, with a smuggler. Anita had studied Spanish in
high school, and he was learning English. She kept going back to the restaurant
and he kept talking to her.

They dated, and in 2002 they were married. It was the kind of cross-cultural
union that was becoming more common in Graham, where Mexican workers have been
drawn to work in roofing and in poultry-packing factories.

Jorge, who learned English quite well, blended in with the family and built a
roof for her parents' house. Anita's mother still talks about what a good
son-in-law he was. "Some people can walk off and leave their children. They
don't care," said Nancy Mann, Anita's mother. "But their daddy does care."

Shortly after they married, Anita hastened to file in 2003 to make Jorge legal.
"He didn't even want me to do it," she said. "He didn't want anybody to think he
got married to me just to get papers."

In 2004, the couple received confirmation from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services that Jorge did qualify to continue to pursue legal status based on his
marriage to her. They took that acknowledgement as a good sign and thought they
were on their way to Jorge getting a green card. The next step was to file
paperwork with the State Department, which is tasked with issuing the visas
following an interview in Mexico.

The couple's twins, Fabiola and Fatima, were born in 2005, and all seemed well.
But shortly thereafter a deadly hurricane struck Central America and southern
Mexico, and Jorge lost all contact with his parents. He told Anita he had to go
south to check on them. So he left, for a total of three weeks, and then
re-entered illegally.

Nancy Mann, Anita's mother, believes Jorge's actions were noble. "They have to
go check on their families," she said. Nancy was under the impression that if
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services sent a document acknowledging Jorge's
eligibility, he was all but approved.

When Jorge was finally summoned to his 2007 interview in Mexico, however, he
acknowledged that he had crossed the border twice. Lawyers warn applicants that
if they are not honest about their history, they risk a lifetime bar. But that
revelation of a second illegal crossing made him ineligible for a hardship
waiver that could have reduced his penalty for living illegally in the United
States for more than one year. Instead, Jorge was told he'd have to pursue a
pardon in 2017.

"I believe that he was punished for being honest," Anita said.

From April through August of 2007, Anita took the toddler twins to Mexico to try
to live there with Jorge, but returned after one of them developed a fever so
bad she had a seizure. The staff at a small clinic in the Mexican town was very
attentive, she said, and put her sick child on an IV and administered medicine.
But the experience frightened Anita.

She wrote to congressional representatives, asking for help. They all basically
said the law was the law, although some were more sympathetic and said they'd
keep her case in mind, Anita said.

She visited Jorge on occasion, and in 2010 Anita tried to live in Mexico again
with the twins. She and Jorge ultimately agreed she should return to North
Carolina because she had a high-risk second pregnancy. She used up all her
retirement savings so she could comply with doctor's orders to stay off her feet
and not work.

When her third baby was born, she traveled down to the Texas-Mexico border once
and crossed over just so Jorge could see the baby. Then she returned to Graham,
and put the twins in church school and thought long and hard about what to do.

She scattered photos of Jorge around the room she and the girls slept in, and
they talked every day with him. Last Easter Sunday, she hit a painful moment
when one of the twins leaned over and whispered to her. "All the daddies are
here. Why can't my daddy be with me?"

As Anita was preparing to go to Mexico this month, the twins talked about being
excited to see their father. "He's going to paint my wall with horses," Fabiola
said. "He's going to make me a toy box." But the girls said they were anxious
about having to speak Spanish and adjust to school there.

Anita is worried about how they'll survive. She hopes she can earn some money
teaching English. But she knows tough times are ahead, and she understands that
she might not be able to stay in Mexico.

"When they give out these bars, they're not just giving them to one person.
They're giving them to a family," Anita said. "It's actually worse than a prison
sentence. People in prison can do a lot less time, and do a whole lot worse
things." Place with body copy. Can go at bottom if story is not paginated. If
story is paginated, please put on every page.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elisa Xitco, 6, the daughter of U.S. citizen Chris Xitco, stands behind
the iron gate protecting her home in Rosarito, Mexico, where she lives with her
Mexican mother. Her mother has been barred from entering the U.S. at least until
2018.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

U.S. immigration choice: Education vs. diversity, or both?

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 1008 words


People around the world with accredited degrees in science and math should "get
a green card stapled to their diploma," Republican presidential candidate Mitt
Romney said in his Tuesday night debate with President Barack Obama, who has
made similar appeals to retain skilled foreign students.

Stewed over by lawmakers since 2009, the visa-stapled degree is a bipartisan
idea that Congress has been unable to achieve. Election-year politicking brought
a rare opening but then quickly shut the door to compromise this fall --
specifically, whether to create more opportunities for highly educated
scientists and engineers to stay in the United States at the expense of shutting
down a random lottery of visas.

"Do we want to have 6,000 Iranians coming here or do we want 6,000 scientists
and researchers?" U.S. Rep. Brian Bilbray, R-Coronado, asked on the House of
Representatives floor. "Do we want over 2,000 Moroccans (or) individuals who
have proved they have an asset?"

In other words, congressional Republicans said, the United States can award
special green cards for permanent residency to foreign scientists and engineers
or it can give out the visas in a random global lottery, but it cannot do both.

They sought to replace the "diversity visa lottery" with 55,000 visas annually
granting permanent residency to immigrants with advanced U.S. degrees in
science, technology, engineering or math, called the STEM fields. Most Democrats
reject that choice, arguing that America has room for both visa programs.
Neither Romney nor Obama has weighed in on the lottery side of the debate.

The House debate collapsed in late September in a hail of carefully calibrated
finger-pointing but left open an important question: Should the country retain
the most highly educated migrants by sacrificing a lottery that over the past 17
years has opened the door to thousands of people? Or do both?

Everyone expects the issue to return once the political season cools off.

"We should keep the great students already studying at Stanford and Berkeley and
not worry about bringing in people who may or may not contribute to U.S.
competitiveness," said author Vivek Wadhwa, who has warned of a Silicon Valley
"immigrant exodus" of talented entrepreneurs.

Attaching visas to doctorates and master's degrees has bipartisan appeal and a
strong constituency in Silicon Valley, but the diversity lottery has its
defenders: people like Michael Shklovsky, whose Israeli florist parents got a
break with the visa lottery that changed their family's trajectory.

"They weren't major professors or highly accomplished scientists," said
Shklovsky, 33, a civil trial attorney who lives in El Cerrito. "There was really
no way for us to come in other than through a lottery."

The diversity allocation was originally designed to help Europeans choked off in
the 1980s by immigration policy favoring immediate kin of people already here.
Today, nearly half who win the visas are from Africa. Defenders say the lottery
is still the only legal immigration chance for the kind of plucky workers who
historically defined American immigration.

Shklovsky was 16 when his parents won the visa, sold their Tel Aviv flower shop
and moved the family to Contra Costa County in the mid-1990s. His father
recently retired as a Martinez mechanic, his mother is a Montessori school head
teacher and his brother is an assistant bank manager. "I'm really happy I'm
here. I'm happy we left," he said.

About 50,000 people win the lottery each year, a small slice of the
approximately 1 million who come in, mostly through family ties or work
sponsorships.

Lottery eligibility requires little more than a high school degree, and only
those from countries with low rates of U.S. immigration can apply.

On the other side of the debate is Marcos Hung, 24, born in Argentina to
Taiwanese immigrants and now working at Stanford Hospital on a soon-to-expire
student visa. He applied for a diversity visa, but lost out -- the chances of
winning are about 1 in a 100.

"That's why they call it a lottery," said Hung, a bioengineer who already has
his name on two patents.

His chances of winning a so-called STEM visa would be closer to 100 percent --
he has a master's in bioengineering from Rice University in Texas. Without it,
he will likely go the more traditional Silicon Valley route -- hoping an
employer will sponsor him for a temporary H-1B visa, and eventually being
sponsored for permanent residency -- which can take many years and cost a small
fortune in legal fees.

Republican and Democratic legislators say they want to make it easier for people
like Hung to get green cards, but they disagree on how to do it.

A longtime diversity visa opponent, House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith,
R-Texas, sought to add the doctorate visas by killing the lottery. U.S. Rep. Zoe
Lofgren, D-San Jose, the minority leader of the immigration subcommittee, wanted
to add the STEM visas and keep the lottery.

On the House floor, Lofgren described the Smith version as a "sinister" ruse to
cut immigration while showing a pro-immigration GOP face before the presidential
election.

Even some immigrant advocates who once endorsed the lottery argue that it has
done its work by welcoming more than 800,000 people since 1995.

Thirty Democrats joined Republicans voting for Smith's version, including Bay
Area Reps. John Garamendi, D-Walnut Grove, and Jerry McNerney, D-Stockton.

Garamendi said in an interview that he prefers to keep diversity visas -- "it's
a value statement about who we are as Americans," he said -- but felt a need to
compromise.

However, he said the Republicans set up the vote to fail by requiring two-thirds
support instead of a simple majority. The tally fell 20 votes short, 257 to 158.

"That's the game," Garamendi said. "It's sad, but that's what most of this
year's votes were about."

Other advocates for high-skill immigration say more Democrats should reconsider
the "all-or-nothing" approach.

"Having diversity is important," Wadhwa said, "but I don't think anyone would
say that America lacks diversity."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Shklovsky, who emigrated from Israel to the United States with
his parents when he was 16, is photographed at home in El Cerrito Calif. on
Monday, Oct. 1, 2012. Shklovsky's parents got a lucky break with the visa
lottery that changed their family's trajectory. (Kristopher Skinner/Staff)
Marcos Hung, a Stanford Hospital research scientist who works on formulating
tuberculosis drugs that are implanted in a patch under the skin, at his research
lab at Stanford Hospital, in Palo Alto, on Friday, October 5, 2012. (LiPo
Ching/Staff)
Marcos Hung, a Stanford Hospital research scientist who works on formulating
tuberculosis drugs that are implanted in a patch under the skin, checks the
micro particles of PLGA encapsulated in Rifampin, that he designed at his
research lab at Stanford Hospital, in Palo Alto, on Friday, October 5, 2012.
(LiPo Ching/Staff)
From left, Marcos Hung, a Stanford Hospital research scientist who works on
formulating tuberculosis drugs that are implanted in a patch under the skin,
works with fellow research scientist Marina Fridlib at their research lab at
Stanford Hospital, in Palo Alto, on Friday, October 5, 2012. (LiPo Ching/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

Separated by law: families torn apart by 1996 immigration measure

BYLINE: Susan Ferriss, The Center for Public Integrity and Amy Issacson,
California Report

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4875 words


In a nation built by immigrants, they thought they could pursue their American
Dream - with loved ones at their side. Instead, they're living an American
nightmare that's tearing families apart and forcing Americans into exile.

Chris Xitco, a native of Los Angeles, never imagined that after marrying his
wife Delia in 2002 and trying to legalize her, she'd end up barred by U.S.
officials for life, with no pardon even possible for 10 years. She now lives
south of Tijuana, Mexico, alone with the couple's two small children.

T.J. Barbour, a native of San Diego, has been struggling every day to care for a
10-year-old son, since his wife Maythe was deported and then barred from the
United States in 2011 for what could be 20 years.

In central North Carolina, Anita Mann Perez has been financially ruined trying
to raise three small children since her husband Jorge was exiled for 10 years in
2007. Now she's moved to Mexico to join him.

Across the country, as illegal immigrants have settled into communities, they
have met Americans, fallen in love, married and had children.But when Americans
have voluntarily stepped up to sponsor their spouses for legal residency,
believing this was the right thing to do, they've been shocked to discover their
citizenship does not trump mandatory penalties the spouses must face. Far from
it.

These penalties, which "bar" the spouses from the U.S. for years at a time, were
instituted by Congress in 1996 specifically to punish immigration-related
offenses.

Since then, the law governing such situations - and the way it's applied -has
taken a number of twists and turns.

Over that time period, waivers have helped many people. And in January,
President Obama announced a plan to tweak the procedure by which citizens'
spouses apply for residency, a change that could eventually spare many more
families from long, painful separations. But the change isn't likely to go into
effect this year, and it isn't retroactive.

And while thousands stand to benefit, thousands of others simply won't qualify
for easier access to "hardship waivers" that the president proposes - and will
be trapped by the small print of the 1996 law.

Under that law, if applicants for legal residency crossed the border once, and
were "unlawfully present" for more than one year, they must be issued a 10-year
bar from living in the United States. They can then apply for a hardship waiver
to try to return sooner and take up legal residency. If applicants have a
history of entering the United States multiple times illegally, they can be
barred for life - and can only pursue pardons if they remain outside the United
States for five, usually 10, sometimes 20 years. Being married to an American
citizen may not help at all.

To complete their application process, people who entered the United States
illegally must go to their final interview at a U.S. consulate back in their
home countries. Often U.S. consular officials must simply deliver the bad news
immediately. And that's that. The bar has begun, and the applicant cannot
return.

Oklahoma lawyer Douglas Stump, president-elect of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said for every 100 people who approach him to try to
legalize a family member, more than half involve undocumented people whose
immigration violations would qualify them for the hefty penalties mandated by
the 1996 law.

The penalties emerged from Republican leaders in a get-tough Congress. They
argued the country had become too easy on illegal immigrants by allowing some
with family ties to pay fees, show they had no disqualifying police record and
adjust their status without having to leave the country. Congress increased from
$650 to $1,000 the fine such immigrants would have to pay. But that wasn't
enough, some members said. Such immigrants should also leave to receive the new
bars on re-entering for a certain period.

By getting tougher on these undocumented people, supporters of bars reasoned,
others would see that it would never be easy for them to transition from illegal
to legal status, even by marriage.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, a Republican of Orange County, California, defended the
tougher rules during a 2001 congressional debate over their merits - and whether
to extend a pre-1996 statute that was allowing some immigrants to still adjust
their status inside the U.S.

"Yes, there are some heart-tearing cases here," Rohrabacher said. "Yes, some
people who are in this country end up marrying American citizens, and the
American citizens find that their loved one is going to have to go back to their
home country [for the duration of a bar] in order to be here legally, because
they have married an illegal alien."

"I am sorry," he said. "If someone is here illegally then they should go back to
their home country to regularize their status."

Thousands?

Hard numbers are impossible to come by, but the Department of State's records of
immigrant visa rejections suggest that thousands of bars have been handed down
over the last decade.

Records don't single out which of these applicants are spouses of U.S. citizens.
Some could be other sorts of relatives. Typically, though, department officials
say that spouses are one of the largest groups applying for residency visas
globally.

Between 2000 and 2011, visa applicants were able to overcome their
disqualification due to illegal presence for more than one year - which carries
a 10-year bar - about 89,000 times. However, immigrant visas were denied more
than 68,000 times because applicants were unable to get their disqualification
for illegal presence waived. The numbers could reflect some volume of repeat
attempts by the same people.

During the same period, there were almost 19,000 disqualifications of visa
applications for the offense of being "unlawfully present after previous
immigration violations." Only five such cases were reversed. The penalty is a
lifetime bar, with the possibility of being able to seek a pardon, but,
ordinarily, only after 10 years.

There have been thousands of visa rejections for other immigration-related
offenses, including "misrepresentation" of facts during the application process.

It's also hard to know how many spouses of Americans and parents of American
children could feel threatened by potential bars, and have thus decided to
continue to remain undocumented. That means families are living with the risk of
spouses being discovered and deported rather than trying to apply for residency.

The Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research center in Washington, D.C.,
estimated last year that more than 16 million people in the United States are in
families with at least one undocumented member.

About 9 million of these people are in families that also include at least one
U.S. citizen child. Other adults in the families could be citizens, or they
could be legal immigrants. Most illegal immigrants, Pew also estimates, have
been in the United States for 10 years or more - long enough to start a family.

"We are talking mostly about younger families with small children," said Randall
Emery, one of the founders of American Families United, a national network of
citizens whose loved ones have been barred - or would be.

Emery's group applauded Obama's easing of the hardship waiver rules (see "A
dizzying series of legal twists and turns"), which could benefit some of its
members. Eventually. But the proposed change is not bringing any relief to
Americans who are already separated from husbands, wives and children.

The Xitco family

Chris Xitco, 49, says that with everything he and his wife have gone through,
life feels like it's "her and me, against the world."

They have two kids, Elisa, 6, and Itzamal, a 1-year-old son.

Chris met Delia, now in her mid-thirties, more than a dozen years ago on the job
at a produce-packing company in the Los Angeles area. Chris is not Hispanic, but
he spoke some Spanish because he grew up with Mexican workers on a family farm,
and he used to surf south of Tijuana as a youth.

The two began to date, Delia taking him to see Latin music concerts. He took her
to see him surf.

Delia originally hailed from Nayarit, a state in western Mexico. Chris knew that
she had crossed the border illegally, that she'd been caught once in the Arizona
desert, detained overnight and then tried again to enter and was successful.

But he knew so many other people who had done the same thing, who were desperate
to work. The border, he said, "was a joke for so long." And he didn't think
Delia's offense was unforgivable. He knew it was rare to impossible for Mexicans
to get work visas, and she came from a poor part of Mexico where jobs were
scarce and many had already blazed the familiar trail north.

When the two decided to marry in 2002, Chris was 38, and he and Delia were eager
to get settled and have children. Chris said he knew he had to take care of
business by legalizing Delia, but he "thought it was a lock because I was a
citizen."

He was so nacve, he said, that he took Delia right into the immigration office
of a Los Angeles federal building. He approached a security guard and told him
the couple was there because he wanted to "fix" his wife's papers.

"He put his arm around my shoulder, did a U-turn," Chris remembered, and ushered
Chris and Delia toward the door. The guard did him a big favor, Chris said he
realized later. Technically, his wife could have been taken into custody right
then and there. The guard gave Chris the address of a website to consult as they
were walking out.

In 2003, Chris contacted an attorney, who explained how the law had changed, and
suggested that Chris and Delia save their money and hope that Congress would
change the laws again.

But Chris returned to the lawyer in 2004. The lawyer did a Justice Department
background check on Delia and found no record of deportation. Perhaps when she
was quickly turned back at the border once, the lawyer reasoned, it didn't
count.

So they started the application process.

Delia was pregnant when they got word she had an interview appointment, in
Juarez, Mexico. The couple didn't want to risk any chance that the baby would be
born in Mexico, fearing that it might jeopardize Delia's application. They asked
for a delay.

Delia and Chris finally went to Mexico for her interview in October 2007, when
Elisa was 16 months old. Chris' parents were thrilled with the new grandchild;
Delia's English was improving and bonds with Chris's family were growing
tighter.

Chris, as spouse, wasn't allowed into the interview, which is standard
procedure.

When Delia emerged and told him she'd been barred, Chris said it really hit him:
there would be no special treatment simply because Chris was an American
citizen. And his daughter's birth didn't change the situation.

"They don't seem to think, well, what about the daughter? She doesn't count?" he
says. "The system doesn't have a heart. And it doesn't have a brain."

Delia took Elisa and flew to Nayarit. Chris went to Los Angeles. In December
2007 they met in Juarez for a new interview, a hardship waiver interview with
the consular office there. Chris argued that he'd be crushed to lose baby Elisa
for 10 years, but couldn't fathom separating her from Delia. But that argument
didn't work. Chris failed to prove that he, as the American citizen spouse, was
suffering extraordinary hardship beyond the pain expected by separation.

From there, things went downhill. Delia returned to Nayarit with Elisa. Chris
found himself trying to explain over and over to family and friends what the
rules were. He flew to Nayarit every few months, but over time, his daughter
failed to recognize him, which broke his heart. He called local congressional
representatives, whose staff expressed sympathy but urged him to get a different
lawyer.

The Xitcos started the whole residency application process again. This time
Chris wanted to be better prepared for what he thought would be a subsequent
waiver interview. He amassed letters of support from family, a psychiatrist's
evaluation, copies of anti-depressant prescriptions, his Army discharge records.
He paid thousands of dollars more in fees, for Delia's medical exams,
vaccinations and other requisites and travel.

At 10:15 a.m. on April 7, 2010, Delia went to her appointment in Juarez. Chris
waited with the baby outside. Delia emerged from the consulate and told Chris
she was not eligible for a waiver and would have to ask for a pardon in November
2017.

A records check, she learned, had turned up a report that she had entered the
United States after being caught once. It was the first time U.S. consular
officials had said anything about her being disqualified because she had crossed
more than once.

Devastated, Chris moved Delia up to Rosarito, a beach town 30 miles south of
Tijuana that's developing a community of deportees and barred family members of
U.S. citizens.

He has settled into a grueling routine of commuting, but seethes when he
discusses what happened.

He is now "couch surfing," sleeping at work or friends' places. For more than a
year, he hasn't been able to afford his own home in the Los Angeles area. He's
still working in the produce-distribution business. He manages to beg off work a
bit early every Friday and drive down to Rosarito, which can mean brutal, three-
or four-hour slogs through bumper-to-bumper traffic.

Returning to the United States at weekend's end is even worse. Chris is
perpetually exhausted because on Mondays he has to sit in three hours of traffic
just to get a few miles over the border, and then drive on to Los Angeles,
another three hours.

Every penny he makes and nearly all his energy goes into managing this
separation, Chris said. He can't get a job in Tijuana, he said, because the
earnings are too low, and he feels he's too old.

Chris is paying for a private school in Rosarito for Elisa, but the instruction
is in Spanish, not English. Chris tries to engage her in English, but she
answers in Spanish. She can sing a version of the ABC song with a heavy Spanish
accent. She can say "see you later," and "bye" and she understands what the
Fourth of July is about.

Chris is worried how she'll fare later if and when she enters school in the
United States. She'll be ready for junior high by then.

He said his greatest fear, being three to four hours away, is that he won't be
able to protect his family. The house Delia and the children are in has high
walls, but thieves broke in once already and looted it. It's in an area with a
lot of transients, people who don't know one another, and Delia feels she can no
longer go out for very long periods of time.

"I don't trust the neighbors," she said. She has no friends nearby, nor
relatives, and restricts her socializing to other mothers at school.

Still, having the family in Rosarito is better than in Nayarit, Chris said.
Delia and Elisa had to hit the floor in a shopping center during a gang shootout
there.

Chris said he doesn't think illegal immigrants shouldn't be penalty-free if they
marry and their spouses want to legalize them. But he thinks a decade-long bar
is cruel not just to Delia, but to him and his children.

"She didn't sell any drugs. She doesn't know anything about gang signs," he
says. "Crossing the border to look for a job isn't that much of a crime to me."

The Barbour family

T.J. Barbour, a software engineer in his early thirties, knows what he is doing
every Wednesday night and every weekend.

The San Diego resident leaves his Rancho Bernardo neighborhood, packs his car
with household supplies he can buy for less in the United States, like toilet
paper, and drives over the San Diego-Tijuana border on those Wednesdays through
heavy traffic to see his wife. Their son Lucas, 10, goes with him. They come
back before dawn Thursday morning. And then they return on the weekends, so the
boy can spend time with his mother, who lives in a small apartment just south of
Tijuana.

After getting a late start one recent Saturday, T.J. pulls up to mom's place at
night, with Lucas asleep in the back. Maythe reaches in and embraces him, and
helps him stagger into the house while she asks him, in English, how his
American grandparents are doing.

On Monday morning, before dawn, Maythe helps Lucas into the car so he can sleep
a bit more - he has to go to school - and T.J. checks underneath the vehicle to
make sure drug smugglers haven't attached a box to the bottom of the car, a
popular way to get goods across that can later be retrieved.

Maythe drives the car close to the border crossing so son and husband can get
some sleep and then she takes two buses home. It is a grueling routine. She
cries bitterly in relating how - despite being married to T.J. - she was
deported from the United States and told she would remain in Mexico for 20 years
before being able to join her family again.

"I recognize that one commits an error by crossing [the border]," Maythe said in
Spanish. "But sometimes necessity makes you do things."

T.J. was just out of high school in San Diego when he met Maythe, at Burger
King, about a dozen years ago. He tried out some rudimentary Spanish on his
pretty co-worker, and it clicked. "I definitely saw something special about
her," he says.

Maythe was reluctant to get involved because she already had a young daughter to
support, and was struggling to pay off medical bills in Mexico. She was also
trying to get away from a threatening experience back in her home in Mexico's
southern Guerrero state, a history T.J. says was so traumatic he won't discuss
it.

Little by little, the two fell in love. "I have no doubt we were meant to be
together," T.J. said. He admired her hard work, and her devotion to her
daughter, whom he adopted and is now also sponsoring for legal status - a
process he hopes will be more forgiving since she grew up in San Diego.

T.J. knew that Maythe had tried to get over the border twice, and was caught the
first time. A smuggler told her to sit in a car and not say anything if a guard
asked for her papers. She and others were caught. The smuggler then put her into
the trunk of a car with tiny holes in it to let in air. She made it that time,
and subsequently found jobs at an Olive Garden restaurant and Burger King, among
others.

"Like most people," T.J. said, "I was under the impression that, well, if she
gets married to me, we're set."

They consulted with a lawyer before they married in 2002, and T.J. was shocked
to learn that it wasn't that easy. The lawyer explained the complexities of the
law, and what they were in for, but thought Maythe might get a waiver. The
couple decided to go slow, out of fear.

Eventually, a paralegal reviewing their case told them that Maythe's previous
deportation would disqualify her from a hardship waiver and they'd be better off
hoping Congress made changes.

"It was basically back to living in the shadows," T.J. said.

Maythe gave birth to Lucas, and T.J. graduated from college and started his
career as a software engineer. He began a graduate program. They owned a home
and Maythe "did all those mom things," taking Lucas to school, participating in
his class activities and cooking tasty meals.

It all fell apart when Maythe was stopped in 2010 by a police officer in the San
Diego community of Escondido who wondered why she was driving slowly. She had
been looking for a friend's address. The officer called immigration agents.

T.J. said he had contacted the office of his congressman, Rep. Brian Bilbray, a
Republican known for tough talk on illegal immigration. T.J says an office
staffer assured him that Maythe would probably not be deported.

T.J. said an immigration agent suggested to him, informally, that the couple
accept Maythe being deported, and that maybe she could come back soon with a
waiver. T.J. kept thinking he had additional rights as a citizen, and refused.
He decided to fight to keep Maythe, and filed a petition in a last-ditch bid to
get her asylum based on trauma she'd been through in the past.

While waiting for a hearing, Maythe was confined to a detention center in San
Diego County for five months. She didn't see her children once because she and
T.J. agreed it would be horrible for them to see her there.

When Maythe had her asylum hearing, T.J. packed the immigration court with
co-workers, family and friends. Lucas sat with him in the front.

"I always thought, 'Look, they've got to be going after criminals, after the
narco-traffickers and everything,' " T.J. said. "What are they going to do with
a little housewife?"

The judge denied Maythe's bid for asylum, which would have let her remain in the
United States. The judge, T.J. said, rushed from the court with no explanation.
He said lawyers told him that judges fear that if they give too many Mexicans
asylum, too many more will ask for it.

Maythe was deported in early 2011. Agents left her in Tijuana, she said, with
nothing but the clothes she was wearing when detained and a cell phone with a
dead battery. She had to beg for people to let her call T.J.

Because of her two deportations, T.J. said he's been advised, she will be barred
from trying to obtain legal residency and re-entering the United States for 20
years.

Maythe spent her first nights alone in Tijuana standing on a border bridge, she
said, crying so hard a guard told her he was concerned she would kill herself.

Her health deteriorated, and the whole family began to put on pounds. Maythe got
a job that paid about $10 a day to hand out fliers for business. She began to
turn to her parents' Jehovah's Witness faith. She found a congregation in
Tijuana, and T.J. joined as well. Now when he visits they spend part of that
time dressed nicely and making rounds to spread the faith.

T.J. is concerned about the long-term impact of the separation from his mother.
Both parents worry about the draining physical and psychological impact of Lucas
being packed into the car and spending hours inching through traffic as they
cross the border every weekend.

Lucas can't really participate in sports or weekend activities now, T.J. says,
and he's so busy balancing job and home that all he can do is throw together a
quick dinner for his son and keep the house from being a mess.

Maythe says it wouldn't be right to pull Lucas, who doesn't speak Spanish, out
of school and move him to Mexico to be with her. He doesn't like the food in
Mexico, she said. He doesn't feel comfortable. "His life is there, everything he
knows," she says. "I still feel he loves me. He makes an effort to come, and he
says he misses me. But I am not a part of his total life now."

Mandatory bars, T.J. says, don't fit the crime, and they've stripped immigration
judges and other officials of the discretion to consider the entirety of a
person's life and family situation.

"I want people to know that, hey, we U.S. citizens are really hurting here, and
our children are," T.J. says. "The family ramifications of this have to be taken
into account. We need to deal with the fact that people have become a part of
the fabric of our society."

The Mann Perez Family

It took 10 minutes for the consular officer in Juarez, Mexico, to look through
Jorge Perez's application packet for residency and tell him he was barred for 10
years from re-entering the United States, starting that very day in 2007.

"He said, 'Ok, that's it. You can go now,' " Perez, reached by phone in Mexico,
remembered.

When Jorge, now 42, told wife Anita what had happened, her world collapsed.

"When I tell people what I've gone through, they're shocked. They think it's
crazy that an American citizen would have to live in another country for 10
years to be with their spouse," Anita said. She grew up in Graham, North
Carolina, not far from Durham, and most of her close-knit family still lives
there.

Since Jorge's barring, she's lost the home they were buying, spent all her
retirement savings and had to move in with her parents.

This month, Anita, 34, quit a job she enjoyed at a local hospital as an aide in
a clinic and packed up some belongings. She moved with the couple's 7-year-old
twins and nearly 2-year-old daughter to join Jorge again. This will be Anita's
third attempt to live in Jorge's remote town near the Guatemalan border. But she
knows it will not be easy.

"At least [in Graham] I know my girls get three square meals and a snack," she
said. Jorge has been trying to get by growing tomatoes. He built a house there
with money he saved working in the States, but what he and Anita really wanted
to do was build a life for themselves in Graham.

Anita met Jorge at a restaurant in Graham, where he had arrived in 2000 after
getting across the border on foot, with a smuggler. Anita had studied Spanish in
high school, and he was learning English. She kept going back to the restaurant
and he kept talking to her.

They dated, and in 2002 they were married. It was the kind of cross-cultural
union that was becoming more common in Graham, where Mexican workers have been
drawn to work in roofing and in poultry-packing factories.

Jorge, who learned English quite well, blended in with the family and built a
roof for her parents' house. Anita's mother still talks about what a good
son-in-law he was. "Some people can walk off and leave their children. They
don't care," said Nancy Mann, Anita's mother. "But their daddy does care."

Shortly after they married, Anita hastened to file in 2003 to make Jorge legal.
"He didn't even want me to do it," she said. "He didn't want anybody to think he
got married to me just to get papers."

In 2004, the couple received confirmation from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services that Jorge did qualify to continue to pursue legal status based on his
marriage to her. They took that acknowledgement as a good sign and thought they
were on their way to Jorge getting a green card. The next step was to file
paperwork with the State Department, which is tasked with issuing the visas
following an interview in Mexico.

The couple's twins, Fabiola and Fatima, were born in 2005, and all seemed well.
But shortly thereafter a deadly hurricane struck Central America and southern
Mexico, and Jorge lost all contact with his parents. He told Anita he had to go
south to check on them. So he left, for a total of three weeks, and then
re-entered illegally.

Nancy Mann, Anita's mother, believes Jorge's actions were noble. "They have to
go check on their families," she said. Nancy was under the impression that if
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services sent a document acknowledging Jorge's
eligibility, he was all but approved.

When Jorge was finally summoned to his 2007 interview in Mexico, however, he
acknowledged that he had crossed the border twice. Lawyers warn applicants that
if they are not honest about their history, they risk a lifetime bar. But that
revelation of a second illegal crossing made him ineligible for a hardship
waiver that could have reduced his penalty for living illegally in the United
States for more than one year. Instead, Jorge was told he'd have to pursue a
pardon in 2017.

"I believe that he was punished for being honest," Anita said.

From April through August of 2007, Anita took the toddler twins to Mexico to try
to live there with Jorge, but returned after one of them developed a fever so
bad she had a seizure. The staff at a small clinic in the Mexican town was very
attentive, she said, and put her sick child on an IV and administered medicine.
But the experience frightened Anita.

She wrote to congressional representatives, asking for help. They all basically
said the law was the law, although some were more sympathetic and said they'd
keep her case in mind, Anita said.

She visited Jorge on occasion, and in 2010 Anita tried to live in Mexico again
with the twins. She and Jorge ultimately agreed she should return to North
Carolina because she had a high-risk second pregnancy. She used up all her
retirement savings so she could comply with doctor's orders to stay off her feet
and not work.

When her third baby was born, she traveled down to the Texas-Mexico border once
and crossed over just so Jorge could see the baby. Then she returned to Graham,
and put the twins in church school and thought long and hard about what to do.

She scattered photos of Jorge around the room she and the girls slept in, and
they talked every day with him. Last Easter Sunday, she hit a painful moment
when one of the twins leaned over and whispered to her. "All the daddies are
here. Why can't my daddy be with me?"

As Anita was preparing to go to Mexico this month, the twins talked about being
excited to see their father. "He's going to paint my wall with horses," Fabiola
said. "He's going to make me a toy box." But the girls said they were anxious
about having to speak Spanish and adjust to school there.

Anita is worried about how they'll survive. She hopes she can earn some money
teaching English. But she knows tough times are ahead, and she understands that
she might not be able to stay in Mexico.

"When they give out these bars, they're not just giving them to one person.
They're giving them to a family," Anita said. "It's actually worse than a prison
sentence. People in prison can do a lot less time, and do a whole lot worse
things."

The Center for Public Integrity is a non-profit, nonpartisan investigative news
organization.You can read more of its stories on this topic here.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elisa Xitco, 6, the daughter of U.S. citizen Chris Xitco, stands behind
the iron gate protecting her home in Rosarito, Mexico, where she lives with her
Mexican mother. Her mother has been barred from entering the U.S. at least until
2018.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Ruben Navarrette: Both candidates dreadful on immigration issues

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Contra Costa Times syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 578 words


Barack Obama and Mitt Romney should stop talking about immigration. Even when
they're asked about it, as they were during their second debate, they should
just smile politely and say: "No comment."

Otherwise, why remind voters that there is so much about this issue that the
candidates don't understand? Not to mention that both of them have taken
positions or enacted policies that they are having a tough time explaining?

For Romney, it was his shameful posturing in the Republican primary contests
when he lurched to the right and not only took a hard line on anything
resembling "amnesty" but also denigrated hardworking immigrants as takers who
come to America for the freebies.

For Obama, it is his shameful record in office that includes 1.5 million
deportations, divided families, thousands of U.S.-born kids of deported parents
dumped into foster care, battered wives deported after calling the police,
street vendors deported for selling ice cream or tamales without a permit, and
expanded Arizona-style cooperation between local police and U.S. immigration
officials nationwide by way of the Secure Communities program.

To avoid being criticized for all this by Latino supporters, Obama, Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and White House official Cecilia Munoz --
the administration's designated Latina apologist -- insist that it is only
undesirables who are being deported.

Meanwhile, community activists in Detroit are protesting what they claim is a
serious infraction by the local field office of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, where agents are accused of staking out an elementary school to
detain parents as they pick up their kids.

How low can the administration go?

In trying to navigate the choppy waters of the immigration issue, each candidate
has his coping mechanism.

Obama retreats into a fantasy world of unicorns and cotton candy where
immigration officials only deport -- as he said during the debate -- "criminals,
gangbangers, people who are hurting the community, not after students, not after
folks who are here just because they're trying to figure out how to feed their
families." Back in the real world, ICE agents have deported, since Obama took
office, hundreds of thousands of gardeners, housekeepers, nannies and farm
workers who were just "trying to figure out how to feed their families."

Meanwhile, Romney prefers to keep his answers vague, especially when asked what
he would do with the estimated 10 million illegal immigrants in the United
States.

Team Obama has to feign outrage over Romney's plan to allow illegal immigrants
to voluntarily leave the country while ignoring that Obama prefers the more
hands-on method. That's where ICE agents will kick down doors, put people in
shackles, and toss them into a detention facility. According to a PBS
documentary that aired last year, "Lost in Detention," many report allegations
of being physically and sexually abused.

Team Romney -- in a futile bid to win Latino support -- is trying to criticize
Obama for breaking his 2008 campaign promise to pursue comprehensive immigration
reform, while ignoring that -- at least until the debate -- the Republican
candidate opposed the concept. Now Romney says that he'll "get it done" in his
first year.

Really, what's the point of Obama and Romney bickering over immigration to see
who is the lesser evil? On this issue, they're both dreadful.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him
atruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 29, 2012 Monday

Saratoga shorts: Saratogans can get into Computer History Museum for free

BYLINE: Saratoga News

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; News

LENGTH: 226 words


A free day at the museum

The Computer History Museum is inviting Saratoga residents to visit for free for
two days in November. The "Day at the Museum" will actually be held throughout a
weekend, Nov. 17-18 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 1401 N. Shoreline Blvd. in
Mountain View.

Guests can view the museum's 26,000-square-foot art exhibition, "Revolution: The
First 2,000 Years of Computing," watch screenings in the 400-seat Hahn
Auditorium, buy lunch and shop with a 15 percent discount, and receive a
commemorative pin.

Visitcomputerhistory.org .

Immigration is talk's focus

The Saratoga Library is presenting a program about the Chinese immigration
experience from the late 1800s to the 1950s.

The program includes a presentation by docents Marian Seiki and Myrna Yee
representing the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation. Guests will also
hear a firsthand account from former Angel Island detainee William Mock. Chinese
Historical and Cultural Project members Cynthia Chang, Ann Wong and Al Low will
provide comments about their own or their families' immigration experiences.

'Dirty Dog' is at Montalvo

The Montalvo Arts Center is hosting California Theatre Center's production based
on Gene Zion's classic book Harry the Dirty Dog.

The show will be held on Nov. 3 at 11 a.m. at Montalvo Arts Center, 15400
Montalvo Road. Purchase tickets atmontalvoarts.org .

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

Ruben Navarrette: A DREAM that seems to be going sour

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette Contra Costa Times/Oakland Tribune Syndicated
columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 542 words


SAN DIEGO -- When agonizing over a difficult decision, you might make a list of
the pros and cons.

Now imagine doing it as one of the more than 1.4 million undocumented students
who -- as part of an election-year ploy intended to help the Obama
administration smooth over relations with Latinos -- find themselves eligible
for a stay of deportation and temporary work visas under a program called
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).

Pro: If you're approved, you don't have to worry about being deported for two
years and you can get a job if an employer will hire you.

Con: There is no path to permanent legal status, let alone citizenship. In many
states, you can't use the DACA visa to get what many illegal immigrants really
want: a driver's license. You put yourself at risk of deportation since you have
to apply for the visa from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the very
government agency that has already deported more than 1.5 million people during
Obama's first term. You also put any undocumented family members at risk because
the personal information you're required to hand over to ICE includes your home
address. While ICE didn't know you existed before, now it will always be part of
your life since it has a file on you, your fingerprints, and your personal
information.

The cons have it.

Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, who supervises ICE, recently said
that the agency is getting more than 3,000 DACA applications every day. The
figure should be much higher given the size of the potential applicant pool.

So far, only about 180,000 people have applied. They have to meet the
qualifications -- under 31 years of age, arrived before age 16, have lived in
the United States for at least five years continuously, no criminal record, and
be a high school graduate, college student or military veteran. Only about 4,500
applications have been approved; about 2,000 were rejected or sent back as
incomplete.

Those numbers are negligible. You wonder: Is this what all the fuss is about?
Despite the hysterics you hear on right-wing talk radio, it is not as if the
floodgates have been thrown open and amnesty declared with the stroke of a pen.

In fact, the vast majority of those who are eligible to apply for the program
have not done so.

Why not?

The Obama administration, which -- on immigration -- has been dishonest and
acted in bad faith. One example is the Secure Communities program, which
requires local and state police to lend a hand to immigration agents by
profiling the people they arrest for even minor infractions and handing their
fingerprints over to federal authorities. The administration told the states and
localities that the program would focus only on violent criminals and that they
could opt out: neither turned out to be true.

Quietly but effectively, Obama has declared war on the illegal immigrant
population in this country with the goal of thinning its ranks. It worked. But
it also created a climate of caution, skepticism and fear. And now trust is in
short supply.

As a result of cynical politics and poor leadership, a personal decision that
was always going to be difficult has become nearly impossible.

Ruben Navarrette is a syndicated columnist. Contact him
atruben@rubennavarrette.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Sergio Romo's 'illegal' shirt a showstopper at San Francisco Giants parade

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: SPORTS; Breaking; Politics; Baseball; Special Reports; Giants; News

LENGTH: 374 words


Forget the World Series trophy and caravan of luxury convertibles.

The biggest showstopper at the San Francisco Giants' victory parade might have
been lovable relief pitcher Sergio Romo's T-shirt. Or more precisely, the
message on the front: "I just look illegal."

Already lionized for his Sunday performance closing out the Giants' Series
clincher against the Detroit Tigers, the 29-year-old won even more attention
Wednesday as he sported the provocative message while parading through the
streets of San Francisco.

Social media was abuzz about the attire of the pitcher with the oversized
personality from the small Southern California city of Brawley, just miles from
the Mexican border. Within hours, an obscure Los Angeles T-shirt company was
taking dozens of orders for the shirt.

"Pure awesomeness," tweeted one fan.

"Right on, Romo," tweeted another.

Immigrant activists around the country interpreted it as a satirical message
about a term that many say dehumanizes immigrants in the country illegally -- as
well as American-born Latinos like Romo.

"You cannot tell who looks 'illegal,'" tweeted Bay Area activist and journalist
Jose Antonio Vargas, thanking Romo for taking a stand. "No human being is
illegal."

Romo, a son of Mexican immigrants, said nothing publicly Wednesday about the
shirt and partially concealed its message with a zip-up hoodie when he held the
World Series trophy behind crooner Tony Bennett.

He did, however, thank fans in a speech celebrating the Bay Area's diversity and
its "different folks with different strokes" and "different faces from different
places," then flashed the message on his way back from the lectern.

One person who had never heard of Romo before Wednesday was pleased with his
clothing choice.

After selling only about 40 of the shirts since they were designed two years
ago, Wicky Tees founder Jack Chan was surprised to sell more than 100 Wednesday
afternoon at $12 each.

"I heard he's a pitcher or something," Chan said. The Los Angeles-based online
retailer designs shirts that are meant to be humorous and offensive. This one
was no different, Chan said.

"It doesn't mean anything," he said. "We just thought it was funny."

Contact Matt O'Brien at 510-293-2465. Follow him atTwitter.com/mattoyeah .

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Giants relief pitcher Sergio Romo sports a t-shirt with a message while
interacting with fans as the San Francisco Giants were feted with a parade down
Market Street in San Francisco, Calif. Wednesday, Oct. 31, 2012. The parade
culminated in a rally in Civic Center Plaza in front of City Hall. The Giants
are now two-time World Series winners in the 21st century, winning in 2010 and
again in 2012 after sweeping the Detroit Tigers in four games. (Patrick
Tehan/Staff)
Giants relief pitcher Sergio Romo sports a t-shirt with a message while
interacting with fans as the San Francisco Giants were feted with a parade down
Market Street in San Francisco, Calif. Wednesday, Oct. 31, 2012. The parade
culminated in a rally in Civic Center Plaza in front of City Hall. The Giants
are now two-time World Series winners in the 21st century, winning in 2010 and
again in 2012 after sweeping the Detroit Tigers in four games. (Patrick
Tehan/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday

Cloud lifts over young immigrants seeking legal status, but concerns remain

BYLINE: By Matt O'Brien San Jose Mercury News

SECTION: POLITICS; Special Reports; News; National; State; Local

LENGTH: 1514 words


The force field protecting Jirayut Latthivongskorn comes from a glossy,
federally issued work permit that wards off deportation and lets him get a job,
overcoming the legal barriers that have long clouded his ambitions and shadowed
his life.

Mailed to homes in fast-growing numbers, the cards are changing the lives of
about 300,000 young immigrants, a quarter of them from California, who took a
leap of faith this fall by revealing their presence to the U.S. government.

Latthivongskorn's plastic card, with its 2014 expiration date etched between his
fingerprint and photograph, symbolizes what he calls his "two-year lease on life
in America" -- permission to live and work under President Barack Obama's
reprieve for young illegal immigrants brought to the country as children.

"It feels really weird," said Latthivongskorn, excited by his freedom but
nervous about its two-year limit. "Now, I have this clock that's ticking."

A rapidly changing postelection political landscape is bolstering the hopes of
the nation's more than 1 million illegal immigrant youths. They have a president
who says he has their backs and a chastened Republican Party openly
reconsidering its harsh opposition to giving them a break.

Emerging everywhere, in cities and affluent suburbs, are people like
Latthivongskorn, a UC Berkeley graduate who dreams of becoming a doctor, and
Daniel Nuñez, a San Jose leaf blower who hopes for a life in the corporate
world.

The government has awarded more than 53,000 permits since September.

For some, though, the reprieve is easily lost. Soccer player Diango Itzun Reyes
could have applied but now is fighting deportation after one enormous mistake --
driving drunk, one of many crimes that disqualifies reprieve applicants.

For years, the young immigrants have tiptoed through their lives, trying to
avoid risks that would expose their illegal status to employers, police
officers, even friends. They've skipped R-rated movies because they lacked IDs.

For those who obtain work permits, the labels "illegal" and "undocumented" no
longer apply. And their future has never seemed brighter.

Here are their stories:

Daniel Nuñez

Three years ago, Nuñez applied at the GooglePlex to wash dishes for the caterer
that feeds the Mountain View Internet giant's army of tech workers.

It was hardly the community college student's dream job, but it seemed more
exciting than blowing leaves off the grounds of Silicon Valley industrial parks,
which he has been doing since his teens.

The job offer appeared imminent until he reached a familiar barrier: the
background check.

"I just got scared and told them I wouldn't be able to accept it."

Then, over the summer, the Obama administration announced it would grant work
permits and not deport illegal immigrants 30 or younger who were brought to the
country as children and meet basic requirements, such as graduating from high
school.

The two-year, renewable permits don't confer citizenship or permanent residency,
but they were the opportunity of a lifetime for people like Nuñez, among the
first in the Bay Area to apply and be accepted.

Now, he is looking for a job and studying for his driver's license exam, because
California is among several states that let the protected immigrants drive.

Nuñez's mother had brought him illegally across the U.S.-Mexico border when he
was a toddler.

Growing up, he hung out with fellow video game-playing geeks at his San Jose
school, got decent grades and stayed out of trouble.

Nuñez remembers apologizing profusely when a police officer pulled him over for
not wearing a seat belt. He escaped with only a ticket and quit driving without
a license, riding his bike to classes at Evergreen Valley College in San Jose.

"It's not like it's life or death, but sometimes I feel like it's life or
death," Nuñez said. "If I do something wrong, the life that I know could be
gone."

For years, he blamed his mother for the legal mess that stuck him in a menial
job, until she told him about the abusive marriage that drove her from rural
Mexico to San Jose.

"I realized that this issue, it's not anyone's fault," Nuñez said, sitting
beside his mother and sister in their suburban San Jose home. "She did it
because she wanted us to have a better life."

Jirayut Latthivongskorn

The jazz band was playing when Latthivongskorn walked into UC Berkeley's Golden
Bear Center this month. Undergraduates and professors he knew mingled with
wealthy donors sipping red wine and nibbling appetizers.

"Berkeley is your campus. You belong here. You can, and will, succeed here,"
Chancellor Robert Birgeneau told the crowd.

The party celebrated the opening of the Robert Haas Jr. Dreamers Resource
Center, a tiny drop-in office for the 195 UC Berkeley students who are in the
country illegally.

"In some ways, since I came to Berkeley, the single most impressive
undergraduates I've met have been undocumented," Birgeneau said before his
speech.

All of them "earned admission against enormous odds," he said.

He was speaking of people such as Latthivongskorn, who maintained a 3.7
grade-point average and held a job at a Thai eatery near campus.

When Thailand's economy crashed in 1997, so did the Latthivongskorn family's
business.

"It was a moment of desperation for my family," said Latthivongskorn, whose
first name means "long fighting." Everyone calls him "New."

He was 9 and thought he was on vacation when he landed with his sister and
brother in California in 1999. They were here to stay, his parents later
revealed.

The five of them crowded into a one-bedroom Milpitas apartment. The children
struggled to learn English and adjust at school. They kept their immigration
history to themselves.

He graduated from UC Berkeley in May, after majoring in molecular and cell
biology, and is applying to medical schools. He frequently returns to campus as
a co-founder of Pre-Health Dreamers, a burgeoning national network to help
promising illegal immigrant students pursue medical careers.

"I don't like for people to be discouraged from what they want to do because of
these barriers," he said.

Diango Itzun Reyes

"I made a horrible decision that night," Reyes said, standing on the College of
Marin soccer field sideline. "It definitely changed my life."

He projected his voice to the bleachers, where more than a dozen sweaty
teammates listened intently.

It was odd to see their co-captain, nattily attired on a sunny Monday in Marin
County, announcing his looming deportation.

If you drive drunk, you can hurt or kill someone, he told them. You can hurt
career opportunities. Or, like Reyes himself, you can get banished from the
United States.

Born in the Guatemalan village of San Carlos Sija during the country's civil
war, Reyes, now 22, was 2 months old when his family brought him to San Rafael.

He grew up making diverse friends, earning accolades from teachers and parents
who appreciated his warm demeanor.

"I made a really horrible decision of deciding to drive," said Reyes, who had
offered to take friends home after watching an NBA game at a bar in San
Francisco's Marina district. They were nearly home when police pulled him over
on Highway 101.

His fingerprint check at the county jail confirmed his illegal status. An
immigration judge, he learned during his incarceration, had ordered him and his
whole family deported. And the DUI was a crime that specifically excluded him
from Obama's reprieve. It was time for him to go to Guatemala.

He found a lawyer to help him fight the deportation, and the Board of
Immigration Appeals is reviewing his case.

Reyes was in jail when he learned about the deferred deportation program
announced a few days before his arrest.

"I really regret it," Reyes told his team. "This is my home. I have everything
here."

Deferred action

The Obama administration is granting deportation reprieves to young illegal
immigrants brought to the United States before they were 16. Law-abiding
immigrants who are 30 or younger, graduated from high school or served in the
military, and who have lived in the United States continuously for the past five
years, are eligible. California and some other states will grant driver's
licenses to the same group. The relief does not confer permanent residency or
citizenship, but President Barack Obama said Wednesday he wants Congress to pass
a permanent solution, the long-sought measure known as the Dream Act, along with
broader immigration reforms.


As of Nov. 15

Estimated number of currently eligible immigrants: 950,000

Requests received: 298,834
Average received daily since August: 4,827
Requests rejected: 10,101
Still under review: 124,572
Requests approved: 53,273

Source: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services; Pew Hispanic Center


Top states

Number of deferred action requests by state
California: 81,858
Texas: 47,727
New York: 19,320
Florida: 15,318
Illinois: 13,904
North Carolina: 11,138
Arizona: 11,074
New Jersey: 10,474
Georgia: 10,206
Virginia: 5,886


Top Countries

Origin of young immigrants seeking reprieve
Mexico: 212,514
El Salvador: 13,769
Honduras: 8,577
Guatemala: 7,630
Peru: 5,052
South Korea: 4,880
Brazil: 4,345
Colombia: 3,856
Ecuador: 3,737
Philippines: 2,613

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daniel Nunez is photographed in his home in San Jose, Calif. on Friday,
Oct. 26, 2012. Nunez has been granted deferred action status by the Federal
Government through President Obama's Dream Act. (Dan Honda/Staff)
Diango Reyes chats with friends after talking to members of the College of Marin
soccer team about the dangers of drinking and driving at the college soccer
field in Kentfield, Calif. on Monday, Oct. 15, 2012. Reyes, who arrived from
Guatemala as an infant, grew up in Marin County, was a good student and star
soccer player and would have easily met the requirements for the Obama
Administration's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals plan had he not been
pulled over by police in June for driving under the influence. (Dan Honda/Staff)
(Dan Honda/Staff)
Daniel Nunez blows leaves and debris from the sidewalks along Lincoln Avenue in
the Willow Glen neighborhood of San Jose, Calif. in the early morning hours of
Tuesday, Oct. 30, 2012. Nunez has been granted deferred action status by the
Federal Government through President Obama's Dream Act. He has worked for S.J.
General Building Maintenance, Inc. for over 2 years. (Dan Honda/Staff)
Fremont resident Jirayut Latthivongskorn, 22, right, hugs Jocelyn Lai, 21, whom
he hasn't seen in over 5 months at the University of California Berkeley in
Berkeley, Calif. on Friday, Nov. 2, 2012. Latthingvongskorn graduated from the
university last May and hopes to go to medical school. He has been granted
deferred action status by the Federal Government through President Obama's Dream
Act. (Dan Honda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 19, 2012 Monday

Rally planned for San Jose man facing deportation

BYLINE: By Joshua Melvin jmelvin@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 420 words


SAN JOSE -- Jesus Ruiz Diego, 26, knows no other life than the one he's had
since growing up in San Jose, yet he faces imminent deportation from the United
States because he's an illegal immigrant.

His family and supporters plan to rally Monday at the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services office in San Francisco as part of a last effort to keep
him from being sent to Mexico.

"This is my country," Ruiz Diego said in a San Francisco detention center
interview. "I consider this my country even though I don't have legal status
here."

He's among the 1.7 million young people who came to the United States illegally
as children and who could qualify for a "deferred action" plan that would
protect them from deportation for two years. But he doesn't meet one of the
requirements of the rule, which says applicants must have been in the U.S.
continuously since June 15, 2007. Ruiz Diego and his family came to the United
States illegally about 18 years ago, and in the spring of 2008 immigration
authorities carried out a 10-year-old deportation order against them. He was 22
and had never left the United States since arriving from Mexico when he was 4
years old.

He grew up in San Jose, graduated from Independence High School in 2004 and
speaks limited Spanish, but suddenly authorities were deporting him to Tijuana.
Ruiz Diego ended up with his extended family in his hometown of Zacualpan in the
state of Nayarit. He was scared, the locals were hostile and before long he was
illegally re-entering the United States, walking across the Arizona desert. A
few days and a bus trip later he was back in San Jose in May 2008.

A little over four years later, on September 18, immigration authorities showed
up at his metalworking job in Morgan Hill and hauled him away, Ruiz Diego said.

Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officials said they prioritize deportation
of "criminal aliens" and "those who have previously been removed from the United
States." The agency is focused on smart, effective enforcement, it said in a
statement.

Sitting in immigration detention, Ruiz Diego said he has no memories of Mexico,
only the United States. His first one is from when he was maybe 5 years old. He
remembers his father brought him his first pair of shoes. They were poor, and
before that he'd only worn sandals.

Ruiz Diego's family and supporters plan to rally Monday at 5 p.m. at the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services office at 630 Sansome St.

Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335. Follow him atTwitter.com/melvinreport .

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday

Nov. 29 Readers' letters

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 824 words


Best U.S. option? Back Abbas' U.N. petition

Trudy Rubin (Opinion, Nov. 28) is correct that the primary effects of Israel's
attacks on Hamas are to strengthen it and weaken the more moderate Mahmoud
Abbas. And Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu doesn't care, because he believes
that he can use force to crush Hamas and extend settlements to most of the West
Bank -- which would guarantee permanent Arab hostility toward both Israel and
the United States. The Israeli public would likely cease backing Netanyahu if
they felt he was losing U.S. support--as when President George H.W. Bush cut off
guarantees of Israeli debt, replacing hawkish Yitzhak Shamir with moderate
Yitzhak Rabin. Congress is too cowed by the Israeli lobby to act, but President
Barack Obama could back Abbas' petition to the U.N. for recognition of
Palestinian statehood. May he have the courage to do it.

Walter Hays

Palo Alto

DA is right on illegal immigrants felons

Stop the presses and sound the trumpets. Santa Clara County actually has an
employee, District Attorney Jeff Rosen, who places the safety and security of
all above activist politics. I can only hope that the county supervisor brain
trust will allow common sense to prevail and detain illegal immigrant felons for
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to interview.

Adrian Simpkins

San Jose

Young Muslim's ideas a model for nations

I applaud young California Muslim Saad Karamat (Letters, Nov. 26) for his ideas
and actions concerning peace and charity. It would be well if such discussion
would emanate from the Muslim nations.

Fred Gutmann

Cupertino

Buy-American effort would grow U.S. jobs

What better time than now to help reduce unemployment by buying American made
goods. After scouring the shelves of various stores for such items, it is clear
we need the help of retailers, wholesalers and online outlets to find them. I
suggest the use of prominent red, white and blue tags on all items made in our
nation, so we can easily locate and purchase them. This enterprise needs to be
ongoing, as momentum will build, manufacturers will produce more American-made
goods and jobs will be created.

Edward Donati

Santa Clara

Once again, GOP going to bat for Wall Street

It's Christmastime and the Republicans are holding us hostage again.

Both parties agree that taxes should stay low for the bottom 98 percent of
Americans, but rather than pass that tax cut, the Republicans are holding us
hostage in order to get a tax cut for Wall Street. Wall Street created this
recession, and they aren't job creators. Wall Street is little more than the
world's largest casino where the super rich go to gamble and the rest of us have
to cover their losses when they blow it. Taxing the rich is good for the economy
and is good for America. I'm tired of being a Republican hostage.

Marc Perkel

Gilroy

'Entitlement' term disparages retirees

I am sick and tired of watching our president, Congress and journalists calling
Social Security and Medicare entitlements. I worked for almost 50 years with
maximum Social Security deductions taken out of my paycheck. Most retired people
have earned their monthly payments. Like all Medicare participants, my wife and
I pay a substantial monthly premium for this health plan. There is one real
entitlement going on today. This is the free health coverage that the president
and Congress get while in office and after leaving office.

Maybe we need a third party to take control of Congress to remove all
entitlements given to politicians and to make certain that two of the most
important programs we have will not be decimated.

Herbert D. Leeds

San Jose

Put aside partisanship for the benefit of all

I'm a senior citizen, lifelong Democrat, and recipient of Social Security and
Medicare. This next month is a historic opportunity for Congress and President
Barack Obama. They must raise revenue by raising the tax rate slightly on the
very wealthy and not raising taxes on everyone else, by greatly restricting tax
havens and limiting non-charitable deductions, by taking the action necessary to
make Medicare and Social Security solvent and available to future generations by
asking all of us, except the very poor, to contribute something according to our
means.

They must also invest in rebuilding our infrastructure, R&D and education, all
of which will have a huge payoff, while also taking concrete action to begin
significantly reducing the deficit. We are all in this together.

Steve Baron

Cupertino

Urban stress related to breast cancer rate?

The map (Page 1A, Nov. 27) shows higher rates of breast cancer in several areas
of California. If we examine these areas and consider that they are generally
places of high-energy, fast-paced businesses, could it be that the pressures on
women working in these areas may have something to do with this phenomenon? A
secondary effect might compound this pressure: living and driving (and trying to
survive) in these congested areas.

Ed Jacklitch

San Jose

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 30, 2012 Friday

Nearly 2 million artifacts to be removed from Ellis Island after Hurricane Sandy

BYLINE: Adrienne LaFrance, Digital First Media

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words


NEW YORK - Power is still out at Ellis Island more than a month after Hurricane
Sandy walloped New York City, prompting federal officials to remove some 1.7
million historic objects from the museum at the site where more than 12 million
immigrants first arrived to the United States.

"The vast majority are paper documents, immigration records, letters, diaries
left behind," said Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service.
"But then there's a substantial part of the collection that is actual objects
like trunks brought over by immigrant families."

Litterst called the move "pre-emptive," and said the objects at the Immigration
Museum were not damaged in the storm, nor have they deteriorated since. But
because the building has been without electricity for several weeks, there are
growing concerns about documents and artifacts being outside of a
climate-controlled environment.

"With no power, they can't effectively regulate the environmental conditions and
the temperature and humidity are fluctuating," Litterst said. "The other concern
along those lines - because it's heated with boilers in the winter - if they
can't get that up and running and it gets cold enough, God forbid that a pipe
bursts."

The National Park Service reported "significant damage" to the infrastructure on
Ellis Island, including "severely damaged" doors, windows and exhibits at the
Ferry Building. A fire suppression system also was threatened, and water flooded
the basement of the Immigration Building, according to the agency.

Teams of curators have monitored the historic treasures since almost immediately
after the storm, Litterst said. The National Park Service has made a point of
including history experts in disaster assessment teams since 2003, when flooding
from Hurricane Isabel damaged as much as 90 percent of about 1 million cultural
artifacts in Jamestown, Va.

Officials haven't finalized how the artifacts from Ellis Island will be
transported, or how much it will cost. The objects will not be available to the
public while they're kept in a secure location in Maryland, Litterst said.

"It is not a permanent move, not by any stretch of the imagination," Litterst
said. "The collection survived the storm intact... But they made the
determination that if we don't do something now, maybe there's going to be a
problem later on."

Officials say they don't know when Ellis Island will be re-opened, but that it
won't be before the end of the 2012. The Statue of Liberty nearby weathered the
storm without problems and sustained no damage, Litterst said. In a stroke of
luck, an exhibit housed there had been moved about a year ago for a renovation.

"The statue, the pedestal she sits on, and the base at the bottom, the water did
not reach any of those areas," Litterst said. "We've had a lot of trying times
but the statue herself was not harmed."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Damage and debris from Hurricane Sandy on Ellis Island after the storm
swept through the area. While there was little damage to the museum collection
in the Immigration Building on the island, there was significant damage to the
infrastructure.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 1, 2012 Saturday

Ruben Navarrette: GOP dug its own hole with Latinos

BYLINE: By Ruben Navarrette

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 762 words


SAN DIEGO -- After years of lecturing us about not making excuses and taking
responsibilities for our actions, Republicans are now playing the victim. They
claim they're getting a bad rap as being hostile to immigrants and Latinos.

The two groups are lumped together. Latinos headline the immigration debate
because they make up the bulk of the immigrants in the United States -- both
legal and illegal. And it's Latinophobia that is fueling the debate as whites
and blacks, nativists and labor unions come together in common cause to turn
back the demographic tide.

The Republican Party knows this. It's been stoking these fears for the last 20
years.

I want to help Republicans own up to their mistakes, although it's hard to feel
sorry for them. They're getting a beating, but you can't say they weren't
warned.

The issue is what will happen to Latinos. They will remain politically impotent
as long as it is impossible for Republicans to win their support and nearly
impossible for Democrats to lose it.

While some Republicans are ready to support immigration reform as a peace
offering to Latinos, others are still in denial about their misbehavior.

Since memories are short, here are highlights of the GOP's ongoing tantrum
against immigrants and Latinos.

-- In 1994, Republicans in California, led by Gov. Pete Wilson, proposed and
pushed Proposition 187, a ballot initiative that sought to deny education and
other services to illegal immigrants and their children. After a campaign filled
with racially tinged rhetoric, voters approved the measure, which a federal
judge later struck down as unconstitutional.

-- In 1996, Republican Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas proposed the Illegal
Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act, which made it easier to
deport illegal immigrants and harder for them to return legally. The law, which
was signed by President Bill Clinton, includes a 10-year bar for anyone who is
removed and re-enters, something that immigration attorneys commonly refer to as
the "Mexican bar" because it only seems to apply to immigrants from Mexico.

-- In 2005, Republican Reps. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin and Peter King of
New York proposed the Border Protection, Antiterrorism and Illegal Immigration
Control Act. Before it was defeated in the Senate, the excessively punitive
measure made illegal "presence" into a crime and expanded the definition of
aiding and abetting lawbreakers to include charities and social service
agencies.

-- In 2006, Republican Rep. Tom Tancredo of Colorado referred to Miami as a
"Third World country" because so many Latinos reside there and so much Spanish
is spoken. And Republican Rep. Steve King of Iowa compared Mexican immigrants to
farm animals when he proposed electrified fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border
because "we do that with livestock all the time."

-- In 2007, Republican Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma led his GOP colleagues down
a detour in the debate over a Senate immigration reform bill with an amendment
declaring English the "national language" of the United States. This made plain
that, for some, the immigration debate is about nativist fears of a changing
culture.

-- In 2010, Republicans in Arizona wrote, approved and signed into law the now
notorious do-it-yourself immigration measure that requires local and state
police to enforce immigration law in ways that have resulted in the profiling of
Latinos. A half-dozen states followed suit, due to the legislative efforts of
Republicans.

-- In 2012, the Republican presidential primary became an ugly contest of which
candidate was the toughest on illegal immigrants while little was said about
punishing the homeowners and businesses who hire them.

-- And just a few days ago, Republican Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and
Jon Kyl of Arizona dusted off and unveiled a bill that they drafted a year ago
to create a second-rate DREAM Act where undocumented college students would get
legal status but explicitly not get U.S. citizenship. Apparently, the senators
are oblivious to the optics. Here you have Republicans, on the heels of an
election where their party lost the Latino vote, proposing a bill that
guarantees that a group of Latino immigrants can't vote.

This is quite a record. It is no wonder that the GOP is in a deep hole with
Latinos. But Republicans are not victims. They're in this hole because, through
many years of words and deeds, they put themselves there. It's time to accept
this, and try to climb out instead of simply pretending the hole doesn't exist.

Ruben Navarrette is a Washington Post columnist.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 8, 2012 Saturday

Who can apply for deferred action?

BYLINE: By Gary Peterson Contra Costa Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 158 words


Undocumented immigrants can apply for deferred action if they:

c Were under the age of 31 as of June 15, 2012

c Came to the United States before reaching their 16th birthday

c Have continuously resided in the United States since June 15, 2007

c Were physically present in the United States on June 15, 2012, and at the time
of making their request for consideration of deferred action with U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services

c Entered without inspection before June 15, 2012, or their lawful immigration
status expired as of June 15, 2012

c Are currently in school, have graduated or obtained a general education
development (GED) certificate, or are an honorably discharged veteran of the
Coast Guard or Armed Forces of the United States

c Have not been convicted of a felony, significant misdemeanor, three or more
other misdemeanors, and do not otherwise pose a threat to national security or
public safety

Source: Office of Congressman George Miller

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

Eugene Robinson: Progressives have no incentive to get it right because GOP is
so wrong

BYLINE: By Eugene Robinson Oakland Tribune syndicated columnist

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 651 words


The biggest problem the Republican Party faces is not uninspiring candidates or
unsound tactics. It is unpopular ideas.

This reality was brought home in last month's election. It's playing out in the
struggle over how to avoid the "fiscal cliff." And we'll see it again in coming
fights over immigration, entitlements, inequality and a host of other issues.
Here's the sad thing: Republicans get this stuff so wrong that Democrats aren't
even forced to go to the trouble of getting it right.

There will be those who doubt the sincerity of my advice to the GOP, since my
standing as a conservative is -- justifiably -- less than zero. But I've always
believed in competition, if only to prevent liberals from becoming lazy and
unimaginative.

Take the question of undocumented immigrants. The Republican Party takes a line
against anything that could be construed as amnesty -- any solution that
provides "illegal" immigrants with a path to citizenship.

It is obvious to sentient Republicans why the party cannot afford to so
thoroughly alienate the nation's largest minority group. What the GOP seems not
to grasp is that the party's "send-'em-all-home" stance is way out of line with
much of the rest of the electorate as well.

A Politico-George Washington University poll released Monday asked voters
whether they favored "an immigration reform proposal that allows illegal or
undocumented immigrants to earn citizenship over a period of several years."
That would be amnesty, pure and simple -- and a whopping 62 percent said they
were in favor.

You might expect Democrats, then, to be pushing hard for a straightforward
amnesty bill. But they don't have to. Because Republicans are so far out in
right field on the issue, Democrats haven't actually had to do anything to reap
substantial political benefits. They've just had to sound more reasonable, and
less hostile, than Republicans.

On the fiscal cliff question, the GOP is similarly out of step. The Politico
poll found that 60 percent of respondents favor raising income taxes on
households that earn more than $250,000 a year. The Republican Party says no --
and thus allows itself to be portrayed as willing to sink the economic recovery.

Where is the incentive for Democrats to get serious about fiscal matters? As
long as the GOP remains adamant on what many Americans see as a no-brainer
question of basic fairness, those who believe in progressive solutions get a
pass.

The truth is that raising top marginal rates for the wealthy is probably as far
as we should go on the tax front right now. The best thing we could do for the
country's long-term fiscal health is spur the economy into faster growth, which
will shrink deficits and the debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.

It's hard to imagine long-term solutions that don't eventually require more tax
revenue from the middle class as well as the rich. But why should Democrats
mention this inconvenient fact when Republicans are keeping the focus on the
upper crust?

The same dynamic plays out in the question of reforming entitlements.
Republicans proposed turning Medicare into a voucher program; polls show that
voters disagree. The GOP seems to be falling back to the position that the
eligibility age for the program should be raised. Trust me, voters aren't going
to like that, either.

A smart Republican Party would stop focusing exclusively on how government can
pay less for health care and instead begin to seriously explore ways to reduce
health care costs. A smart GOP would acknowledge that Americans simply don't
want to privatize everything, which means we need new ideas about how to pay for
what we want.

Faced with an opposition that verges on self-parody, progressive thinkers are
mostly just phoning it in. This won't change until somebody defibrillates the
GOP and we detect a pulse.

Eugene Robinson is a syndicated columnist. Contact him
ateugenerobinson@washpost.com .

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday

San Jose man out of immigration jail for Christmas

BYLINE: By Joshua Melvin jmelvin@bayareanewsgroup.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; Communities; Special Reports; News; Local

LENGTH: 367 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- When Jesus Ruiz Diego, 26, woke up in San Jose on Wednesday
morning he thought for a second that he had just dreamed about getting out of
jail.

But when he saw it was his aunt who had awaked him, not a guard, he knew he
wouldn't have to face the horrible reality of a Christmas spent awaiting
deportation in the Yuba County Jail.

"And then I was like, 'It's real,' " he said Wednesday during a news conference
in front of the San Francisco office of U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, whom he
hopes will help in his fight to stay in the United States.

Ruiz Diego is among some 1.7 million illegal immigrants who came to the United
States as children and who might qualify for federal "deferred action" status
that would allow them to avoid deportation for two years. But deportation to his
native Mexico remains a very real possibility for Ruiz Diego due to some
complicating factors in his case.

It wasn't clear why authorities decided to slap a monitoring bracelet on Ruiz
Diego's ankle and release him Tuesday while he awaits an immigration court date.
A statement from Immigration and Customs Enforcement confirmed his release and
noted those decisions weigh "each individual's circumstances, including the
person's criminal and immigration history."

Ruiz Diego, who arrived in this country at age 4, grew up in San Jose, graduated
from Independence High School in 2004 and from then on held a job until
immigration agents picked him up in September. He'd been in custody since then,
fighting deportation.

Officials want to send him to Mexico because he and his family came to the U.S.
illegally. His lack of papers already led to him being deported in 2008, but he
returned shortly thereafter to what he says is the only life he's known.

Officials have said applicants for deferred action must have been in the U.S.
continuously since June 15, 2007. Ruiz Diego apparently does not meet that
requirement because of his 2008 deportation. Despite that, his attorney,
Niloufar Khonsari, said they have asked for deferred action and are awaiting a
response.

"(Deferred action) was created for people like Jesus," she said.

Contact Joshua Melvin at 650-348-4335. Follow him atTwitter.com/melvinreport .

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jesus Ruiz Diego, right, thanks his attorney Niloufar Khonsari
following a press conference talks about his release from Immigration and
Customs Enforcement detention in San Francisco, Calif. on Wednesday, Dec. 19,
2012. Ruiz Diego is undocumented first came to the United States at the age of
4. He is one of the many who may qualify under deferred action to remain here
legally. Ruiz Diego was detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents
at his workplace on September 18 and immediately put him in deportation
proceedings. (Dan Honda/Staff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 20, 2012 Thursday

Feds hope public can help find child porn producer, rescue victim

BYLINE: By Matthias Gafni Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 467 words


Federal immigration agents are asking the public to help find a child
pornography producer and rescue the 4- to 5-year-old child she is believed to
have sexually exploited and abused in a video recently uploaded and shared
online.

With little to go on other than clear photos of the suspect's face, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents are hoping "Jane Doe's" mug goes
viral and news coverage and the public's social media efforts lead to her
capture and the release of the young child.

It's one of the few times the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit, part of
Homeland Security, has used this publicity strategy. Two suspects were arrested
earlier this year after the agency distributed their photos to news
organizations; the public then shared the information via social media.

The seven-page criminal complaint, filed in federal court in Washington, D.C.,
on Tuesday, details horrific sexual abuse and accuses Jane Doe of sexual
exploitation. The 33-minute video is "one of the most egregious" investigators
have ever encountered, said an ICE official who, not being authorized to speak
to media, requested anonymity.

The video was uploaded for the first time Nov. 27, according to the complaint,
and referred by Danish police who believed the video was produced in the United
States.

"We think this child is in significant risk and that's why this is so
time-sensitive," the ICE official said.

The suspect's identity and whereabouts are unknown, but authorities believe she
lives in the United States.

Jane Doe is described by investigators as a Caucasian female, 23 to 29 years
old, with medium build, brown hair with blond highlights and hazel- or
green-colored eyes. She has a mole on her left thigh and a tongue piercing with
a white round stud with a pink dot. The video features only Jane Doe and the
child.

National Center for Missing & Exploited Children officials determined the victim
has not yet been identified or rescued.

In September, another Jane Doe suspect, Michelle Freeman, 40, was arrested along
with her husband Michael Freeman, 39, after someone recognized Michelle's face
in a Facebook post after ICE blasted the woman's mug shot across the country.
Two child victims younger than 10, who had been featured in 200 explicit photos
and two videos, were rescued after that Portland arrest.

In March, 36-year-old Timothy Valdez, of Modesto, was arrested on suspicion of
molesting a boy in a child porn video after similar efforts.

Anyone with potential information about the Jane Doe suspect can call the ICE
tip line at 866-347-2423 or fill out a tip form atwww.ice.gov/tips . Both can be
done anonymously. View more Jane Doe suspect photos
athttp://www.ice.gov/news/releases/1212/121219washingtondc.htm .

Contact Matthias Gafni at 925-952-5026. Follow him atTwitter.com/mgafni .

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Homeland Security
Investigations is asking for the public's help to identify a suspected child
pornography producer. The agency is seeking the arrest of an unidentified woman
for producing child pornography and the rescue of a 4 to 5-year-old victim of
sexual exploitation. Jane Doe, pictured here, is described by HSI special agents
as a Caucasian female, 23 to 29 years old, with a medium build, brown hair with
blond highlights and hazel/green eye color. She has a mole on her left thigh and
a tongue piercing, with a white round stud with a pink dot. (U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Peninsula readers' letters: December 27

BYLINE: From Daily News Group readers

SECTION: COMMUNITIES; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 287 words


Drones

Dear Editor: I agree with Jagjit Singh in his letter concerning lethal drones.
During his time on Earth, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, Martin Luther King Jr.,
uttered the phrase "guided missiles by misguided men." These words are equally
fitting when it concerns drones.

Marie Louise Starling Bell,

Palo Alto

Moral right to vote

Dear Editor: Since the issue of illegal immigration was brought up by one of
your readers, I would like nothing more than to see the two American continents
united in one zone with no borders, just like Europe. I would like to see
teachers from Guatemala replacing our expensive teachers and builders from
Brazil replacing our expensive Caltrans workers. I would like doctors and nurses
from Venezuela to work in our hospitals instead of our expensive ones and I
would like to be able to buy health care and drugs in Canada.

If we bring in foreign workers, at least let them in through the front door like
proud human beings deserve and give them equal access to all areas of employment
in this country. Let us open to fair competition all our jobs and let the lowest
bidder win. My principle is simple -- what is good for the goose is good for the
gender; what is good for the jobs of the weakest, least qualified and
politically least defended among us is also good for those who cynically use
illegal immigration in order to get the Latino vote.

All voters should pay taxes, the jobs of all voters should be placed in jeopardy
because of illegal immigration, the health care of all voters should be placed
in jeopardy by Obamacare, our wars should affect all families, all voters should
eat their own cooking because only this is what gives us the moral right to
vote.

Virgil Stevens

San Carlos

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Ryan Talley: California farmers need immigration reform

BYLINE: By Ryan Talley Special to the Mercury News

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion

LENGTH: 548 words


I grow bell peppers on the central coast of California on land my family has
been farming for three generations. We plant a little more than 1,000 acres and
need approximately 125 to 250 employees throughout the year. For as long as I
can remember, the overwhelming majority of those men and women have been from
Mexico or Central America. Few U.S. workers apply for the jobs, and those who do
rarely last more than a few days.

This year, we tried everything we could think of, raising our wages to the point
that we almost priced ourselves out of the market. But we still couldn't find
enough workers to get the job done.

I'm not the only farmer short on workers these days. Whether you live in Oregon,
Washington, California or out east in Alabama and Georgia, or whether you grow
bell peppers, cherries, berries, apples, pears, tomatoes, asparagus or
ornamental trees, you're in trouble if you pick your crop mostly by hand as
opposed to machine. In California, where farming brings in $38 billion in annual
revenue, the number of workers available this year was said to be 20 percent
below normal.

Farmers across the country are being battered by a perfect storm. Immigration
enforcement is getting tougher. It's much harder and more expensive than just a
few years ago for workers to cross the border without papers. There's more work
at home in Mexico. And try as we might -- and believe me, we try -- most of us
still can't replace our foreign workers with Americans.

There's only one solution: a workable, streamlined, legal way to hire foreign
workers. But after more than a decade of trying, Congress can't do its job and
create a program that works.

I'm pretty typical of farmers who rely on immigrant workers. I look at
employees' papers and fill out I-9 employment forms -- after all, the last thing
I want is to put my operation at risk by hiring an unlawful labor force. I'll
raise wages when I have to in order to attract people, although of course I can
only raise them so much before my produce becomes too expensive to sell. And
there's nothing I'd like better than to hire American workers.

But in the end, my crop won't wait. If I can't find enough willing and able U.S.
workers, I need a fast, legal, reliable way to hire foreign farm hands.

The good news: A lot of farmers in my situation are starting to come together
and come up with ideas. Under pressure from growers, several bills were
introduced in Congress this year to streamline or replace the existing H-2A
temporary agricultural worker program. Nothing passed. Democrats and Republicans
couldn't agree. It's an old impasse: Most Democrats oppose temporary worker
programs and prefer legalizing unauthorized workers, while most Republicans
favor visa programs and oppose legalization. But the truth is we need an answer
for workers already here and a new program. Several regional and national farm
groups are developing compromise proposals.

I don't understand why this is so hard for Congress. American farmers like me
have seen enough politics as usual. We hope the newly elected Congress can come
together around a deal that works for American farmers, American workers and
foreigners who want to work in the U.S. legally.

Ryan Talley operates Talley Farms based in Arroyo Grande. He wrote this for this
newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 196 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 28, 2012 Friday

San Mateo County Sheriff Greg Munks sides with cautious approach on immigration
detention requests

BYLINE: By Bonnie Eslinger Daily News Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; Communities; Peninsula; News; Local

LENGTH: 650 words


San Mateo County Sheriff Greg Munks said Friday that while he agrees in theory
with a new federal policy announced last week against deporting illegal
immigrants arrested for minor misdemeanor offenses, he's waiting to see the list
of exempted crimes.

"Where the work has yet to be done is determining what is the low-level
offense," Munks said in a phone interview. "Where do we draw that line?"

On Dec. 21, Immigration and Customs Enforcement put out a news release stating
that federal agents would no longer detain individuals arrested for "minor
misdemeanor offenses such as traffic offenses and other petty crimes" in order
to focus resources on felons, repeat offenders and other agency priorities. The
exemption did not apply to individuals charged or arrested on misdemeanors
involving violence, threats or assaults; sexual abuse or exploitation; driving
under the influence of drugs or alcohol; unlawful flight from an accident;
illegal possession or use of a firearm or other deadly weapon; the distribution
or trafficking of drugs; or "other significant threat to public safety," among
other conditions.

A memo outlining the revised detention guidelines said more details on which
crimes warranted possible deportation would be forthcoming.

While some petty crimes, like public intoxication, seem to have less of an
impact on public safety, others can be less conclusive, Munks said.

"Petty theft: someone might steal a loaf of bread to feed their family. But if
someone is a thief preying on the community, that's a different story," he said.

Under a national program called Secure Communities, the fingerprints of all
arrestees are sent to ICE. The federal agency can then ask local law enforcement
to hold suspected illegal immigrants for up to 48 hours after their scheduled
release so federal agents can take the individuals into custody for possible
deportation.

Earlier this month, California Attorney General Kamala Harris informed the
state's law enforcement agencies that they were not required to comply with the
federal immigration detention requests.

While some counties, including San Francisco, had already made decisions not to
hold low-level offenders for ICE, Harris' announcement gave more legal heft to
the position that the federal requests were voluntary. Last year, Santa Clara
County supervisors voted to deny ICE detention requests unless the federal
agency paid for the jail holds.

San Mateo County has considered the Secure Communities program as mandatory and
has fully complied with requests for ICE holds, Munks said.

Supervisor Dave Pine said he'd like to see San Mateo County review its approach
to immigration holds and not hand over illegal immigrants who have been arrested
for low-level crimes and who "don't pose a risk for public safety."

Harris' announcement bolsters that argument, he said.

"We have been invited to exercise discretion and I believe we absolutely
should," Pine said in a phone interview Friday. "I think it would be helpful for
the county to have an open discussion about where to draw that line."

Munks said while he's waiting on the new federal guidelines, his office is
currently collecting information from the federal government on what detention
holds in San Mateo County resulted in deportation. Based on that information and
on conversations with other sheriffs, Munks may reconsider the county's policy
of complying with every ICE request.

"If we decided to make some changes, we'd be very thoughtful about it," Munks
said.

State legislation that would restrict detentions only to individuals convicted
of a "serious or violent felony" was introduced by state Assemblyman Tom
Ammiano, D-San Francisco, earlier this month. The legislature previously passed
an earlier version also written by Ammiano, but Gov. Jerry Brown vetoed it in
September.

Email Bonnie Eslinger atbeslinger@dailynewsgroup.com ; follow her
attwitter.com/bonnieeslinger .

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
