
                               1 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday

Briefing: Challenges to Arizona immigration law vowed

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 780 words


PHOENIX -- Civil rights advocates vowed Saturday to challenge Arizona's tough
new law targeting illegal immigration, saying it will lead to racial profiling
of Hispanics despite the governor's assurance that abuses won't be tolerated.
Republican Gov. Jan Brewer on Friday signed into law a bill that supporters said
would take handcuffs off police in dealing with illegal immigration in Arizona,
the nation's busiest gateway for smuggling from Mexico and home to an estimated
460,000 illegal immigrants. The law requires police to question people about
their immigration status -- including asking for identification -- if they
suspect someone is in the country illegally. The law has sparked fears among
legal immigrants that they'll be hassled by police just because they look
Hispanic. The new measure also toughens restrictions on hiring illegal
immigrants for day labor and knowingly transporting them. Aid to Greece linked
to austerity

WASHINGTON -- Global finance officials are sending Greece a tough-love message:
Move ahead on economic reforms and we'll come to the rescue with an emergency
loan package. The rapidly escalating Greek debt crisis dominated discussions at
Saturday's gathering of the 186-nation International Monetary Fund and its
sister lending agency, the World Bank. Crippled by soaring borrowing costs,
Greece triggered an emergency aid plan Friday to draw cash from the IMF and
countries that use the euro. There's enough money in the package to prevent
Greece from defaulting on its massive debts. Eurozone members will contribute
$40 billion, while the IMF will pony up $13.4 billion this year.Mexican security
chief's convoy hit

MORELIA, Mexico -- Gunmen armed with assault rifles and grenades attacked a
convoy carrying the top security official of the western state of Michoacan on
Saturday, killing four and wounding 10 in Mexico's second brazen ambush in as
many days. Public Safety Secretary Minerva Bautista, traveling in a
bullet-resistant sport utility vehicle, was among the wounded but was
recovering, said an official at the state attorney general's office. The dead
included two of her bodyguards and two bystanders. Of the other nine people
wounded, five were bystanders -- including two girls ages 2 and 12 -- and four
were part of Bautista's security detail. Cleric: Prayer, alms prevent quakes

TEHRAN, Iran -- A prominent hard-line cleric reportedly has urged Iranians to
give alms and pray for forgiveness to prevent earthquakes a week after another
prayer leader said promiscuous women were to blame for seismic instability.
Hours after making the appeal for prayer in a sermon Friday, four small
earthquakes struck different corners of Iran. Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati said only
the pious could predict earthquakes. "With prayers, almsgiving and repentance,
it can be prevented," he said, according to the Aftab e-Yazd newspaper. Iran has
a small earthquake every day on average. Earlier, cleric Kazem Sedighi said
promiscuous women were to blame, in comments that prompted a wave of sarcastic
commentary, particularly by women writing on Web sites such as Facebook and
Twitter.Lovers' quarrel plays out publicly

NEW YORK -- A lovers' private quarrel has played itself out in a very public way
-- with the man begging forgiveness by wearing a sandwich board on a Manhattan
square. Jeff Ragsdale and Megan Brady had dated for six months, until he told
her she was "a lying, untrustworthy person." His 29-year-old girlfriend stopped
returning his calls. So on Thursday, the 32-year-old computer consultant planted
himself near her office in Madison Square Park. On the sandwich board, he wrote,
"I was verbally abusive. I'm sorry, Megan." He repeated the spectacle Friday,
hoping her colleagues would see him and tell her. Finally, one did. Brady
reportedly said she was touched by his willingness to humiliate himself. They
plan to meet again.Yemen cleric: Fight ban on child brides

SAN'A, Yemen -- Yemen's most influential Islamic cleric vowed on Saturday to
gather a "million" signatures to protest a draft law banning child brides. The
cleric, Sheik Adbul-Majid al-Zindani, said a ban "threatens our culture and
society and spreads immorality." Al-Zindani is Yemen's most powerful Islamic
scholar and believed to be a spiritual mentor of Osama Bin Laden. Thai
protesters pull out of talks

BANGKOK -- Hopes for a resolution to Thailand's crisis were dashed Saturday when
the prime minister rejected a compromise for dissolving parliament, and
protesters withdrew from negotiations. The breakdown heightened fears of a
confrontation between security forces and the red-shirted protesters who have
shut down central Bangkok.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Ruben Rosario: Arizona 'fixes' illegal immigration - and gives me a really great
idea

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1052 words


I absolutely adore this new Arizona anti-illegal immigration law. It's the
toughest in the land. Way to go, I say.

Now don't get me wrong here. This controversial law is un-American,
counterproductive as a crime-fighting tool and probably will be ruled
unconstitutional down the road.

And I'm not surprised in the least that it passed or that the two leading
Republican gubernatorial candidates in Minnesota support the law and would
probably lobby to push through a version here. We have to drive all those
illegal Canadians back up north, eh?

We are living in the Paranoid States of America. We solve our problems now by
going after easy scapegoats and whipping up fear and emotions for political
gain.

But I'm getting sidetracked here. Times are hard and I want to make a little
dough on the side before this Arizona law gets deported in the courts. I have a
line of T-shirts, clothing, bumper stickers, Fathead life-size wall graphics and
logos, lampshades, beer can holders and other merchandise with relevant catch
phrases all ready to go.

I'm planning to approach Goldman Sachs to underwrite this business venture. Who
knows best how to play both sides against the middle and walk away with the most
money?

Here are a few samples, all copyrighted:

"Papers? Don't need no stinking papers!"

"Arizona: The real Copper State."

"By the time I get to Phoenix, she'll be deported."

"If you're brown in Arizona, get down ... on the ground."

"I'm a citizen, cabron. Don't even think of pulling me over."

"I'm the proud parent of a legal honor roll student at (school name here)."

"I'm Native. Your papers please or start packing."

"Paper this, amigo."

And "I'm Mexican: Pull Me Over."

Full disclosure on the last one. I saw this on the back windshield of a car in a
picture that accompanied a newswire story this week about a similar measure
being championed by a politician in Utah.

Republican legislator Stephen Sandstrom has pledged to follow Arizona's lead and
pass a similar law. The idea is that if all 50 states adopt it, we could
eventually drive the estimated 11 million to 13 million undocumented folks to
the sea and over the edge, just like the myth about the lemmings jumping off the
Norwegian cliffs to their deaths.

Sandstrom's vow comes as the police chief in Salt Lake City warned that such a
law would indeed lead to illegal racial profiling and also "set back law
enforcement 30 or 40 years."

'MICROCHIP AN ALIEN'

But an Iowa physician gets my prize for most outrageous idea on this issue.

Pat Bertroche, a Republican candidate for that state's 3rd Congressional
District, wants to implant microchips on all illegal immigrants to make it
easier to track them.

"I actually support microchipping them,'' he said this week at a candidate
forum. "I can microchip my dog so I can find it. Why can't I microchip an
illegal?"

Of course, he's backpedaling now, after getting a taste of a backlash as fervent
as the one the law in Arizona has generated.

But humor aside, what are we doing here? We need comprehensive immigration
reform. We needed it decades ago. We need it now.

We can't afford to keep kicking this can down the road or act on real or
contrived frustrations and pass shortsighted laws in the meantime.

Sens. Charles Schumer, a Democrat, and Lindsey Graham, a Republican, are
supposedly working on a reform bill. But it appears as politically fragile,
impotent and doomed in this polarized environment as the bipartisan one Sens.
Ted Kennedy and John McCain worked on years ago.

Kennedy is dead, and McCain has changed more political colors on this issue, and
others, to win re-election than a chameleon on acid.

HERE TO STAY

Although it's not perfect, I like the way David Gewirtz thinks on this. He's
executive director of the U.S. Strategic Perspective Institute. It bills itself
as an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit public policy think tank on a host of
national issues.

Gewirtz came out this week with the results of a yearlong study on the illegal
immigration issue. Bottom line? Whether we like it or not, they are here to
stay.

"In a perfect world, they would all be rounded up and shipped out," Gewirtz
writes. "After all, they're violating the law."

But "we have to be aware of the practical limitations of the problem," he added.
"With fully 5 percent of all the people in the country here illegally, perhaps
it's time we considered an illegal immigration policy that takes into account
the realities, and not just the anger."

Gewirtz's study advocates better border security to stem the flow of the
estimated 500,000 illegal immigrants coming here annually. But his study found
massive deportation to be a nearly impossible task and cost prohibitive.

It would take, the study estimated, "166,666 buses, more than 13 billion gallons
of fuel, and about 48 million pounds of food (around 195 million meals) simply
to transport them to the nearest border." That figure does not include the price
tag for apprehension, detention and process through the legal system.

"It's probably time to consider how to integrate this 13-million-person
population into mainstream America," Gewirtz concluded.

He sees a benefit: 13 million new taxpayers could net America more than $50
billion a year in annual tax revenues.

"No matter what, this isn't a problem that's going to go away on its own," says
Gewirtz, who is not a fan of the Arizona measure. "It's time we started thinking
outside the box and implement policies that take into account the realities of
the situation and provide long-term solutions."

Gewirtz said in response to an e-mail I sent him Thursday, "What's happening in
Arizona is that emotion is getting in the way of problem solving."

He said Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer "is appealing to an angry constituency at the
expense of good governance. To be fair, Arizona's citizens have unique
experiences when it comes to illegal visitors, as compared to most other
states."

In the meantime, I need to get my business up and running.

Actually, this Bertroche fella from Iowa just inspired another bankable slogan:

"Don't mess with Iowans or we'll microchip your (name anatomy part here)."

I'm taking orders now for all of them. No personal checks, please.

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or rrosario@ pioneerpress.com .

ONLINE

To read the report from the U.S. Strategic Perspective Institute, go to
usspi.org .

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 12, 2010 Monday

Fargo legislator to propose immigration bill based on Arizona law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 185 words


FARGO, N.D. --A North Dakota lawmaker from Fargo says he will propose a bill
next year based on Arizona's controversial immigration law.

Republican state Rep. Jim Kasper said he wants his bill to be as close as
possible to the Arizona law, which requires law officers to question and
possibly arrest illegal immigrants during the enforcement of other laws such as
traffic stops.

Critics of the Arizona law say it invites racial profiling. Kasper said it is
not a "witch hunt for illegal immigrants" but is meant to ensure police verify
the residency status of people they encounter.

"To me, it's just natural," he said.

Kasper said a bust of 32 undocumented workers in Oakes in May shows the state
does have issues with illegal immigration.

North Dakota House Democratic leader Merle Boucher, of Rolette, said he is fine
with having a debate on an immigration bill but does not see it as a high
priority.

"I guess I view it as a distraction, in many ways," he said.

The Arizona law goes into effect July 29. The Obama administration has filed
suit in federal court to block it, arguing that immigration is a federal issue.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Battleground Arizona: New immigration law to take effect

BYLINE: By Jonathan J. Cooper Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; National

LENGTH: 738 words


PHOENIX -- The sheriff of Arizona's most populous county is making room in a
vast outdoor jail and determined to round up illegal immigrants to fill it.
Police from the U.S.-Mexico border to the Grand Canyon are getting last-minute
training. And protests and marches are planned throughout Phoenix.

Arizona's new immigration law takes effect Thursday, creating a potentially
volatile mix of law enforcement, illegal immigrants and thousands of activists,
many planning to show up without identification as a show of solidarity.

At least one group plans to block access to federal offices, daring officers to
ask them their immigration status.

"Our message for that day is: 'Don't comply, don't buy,' " said activist Liz
Hourican, whose group, CodePink, plans to block the driveway for immigration
offices in downtown Phoenix.

As both sides prepare, a federal judge is deciding whether to step in and block
the law. It requires officers enforcing other laws to check a person's
immigration status if they suspect the person is in the country illegally. It
also bans illegal immigrants from soliciting work in a public place.

Police across the state scrambled on Tuesday to train officers, including on how
to avoid racial profiling, and plan for a potential influx of detainees.

The hardest-line approach is expected in the Phoenix area, where Maricopa County
Sheriff Joe Arpaio plans his 17th crime and immigration sweep. He plans to hold
the sweep, regardless of any ruling by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton.

Arpaio, known for his tough stance against illegal immigration, plans to send
about 200 deputies and volunteers out, looking for traffic violators, people
wanted on criminal warrants and others. He's used that tactic before to arrest
dozens of people, many of them illegal immigrants.

"We don't wait. We just do it," he said. "If there's a new law out, we're going
to enforce it."

He said that the space he made in the existing complex of military surplus tents
can handle 100 people, and that he will find room for more if necessary.

Elsewhere in the state, law enforcement officials said they didn't expect any
dramatic events. They were busy wrapping up training sessions this week, with
some agencies saying that untrained officers will not be allowed on the streets.

Many of the state's 15,000 police officers have been watching a DVD released
this month that says signs that might indicate a person is an illegal immigrant
are speaking poor English, looking nervous or traveling in an overcrowded
vehicle. It warned that race and ethnicity do not.

Some agencies added extra materials, including a test, a role-playing exercise
or a question-and-answer session with prosecutors.

Critics of the law among police chiefs remain, saying that the law is so vague
that no amount of training could eliminate potential confusion.

"Am I going to sit here and say I think every officer has a clear understanding
of the law when they leave the training?" Tucson Police Chief Roberto Villasenor
said. "No, because I think the law is poorly constructed."

Arizona's law gives police two options to confirm whether a detainee is an
illegal immigrant.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
declined to comment on preparations or the role federal authorities would play
in enforcing the law, except to say ICE "focuses first on criminal aliens who
pose a threat to our communities."

Arpaio vowed to arrest all illegal immigrants and make them spend time in his
jail. Other police officials said they'd try to get the Border Patrol involved
as often as possible to avoid the time and cost of booking the detainees into
jail.

Prosecutors are also preparing for a potential influx of cases. They are
reminding officers that they are required to explain the circumstances of the
original stop, why they suspected the person was an illegal immigrant and any
comments made by the suspect.

A march from the state Capitol is planned at 4:30 a.m., followed by a prayer
service, a rally outside Arpaio's office and later that afternoon a concert
outside Maricopa County Jail, according to the Los Angeles-based National Day
Laborer Organizing Network.

The protesters, both from Arizona and elsewhere, plan to show up without
identification and hold peaceful rallies.

"It's defiance, to see if they want to come and arrest those people," said Pablo
Alvarado, the executive director of the NDLON. "We dare them to come and ask."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Standing curbside in Phoenix earlier this week, a Guatemalan immigrant
waits to be hired as a day laborer on a construction crew. Arizona s new
immigration law goes into effect on Thursday. The law would ban illegal
immigrants from soliciting work in a public place.
Attorneys for Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer asked a U.S. district judge Monday to
throw out the Justice Department s challenge to the state s new immigration law.
Brewer signed the legislation into law April 23, but the Justice Department
contends it is unconstitutional because it skirts the government s
constitutional purview over foreign affairs.
Activist Salvador Reza speaks against Arizona s new immigration law during a
Tuesday rally outside Phoenix City Hall. The law requires officers enforcing
other laws to check a person s immigration status if they suspect the person is
in the country illegally.
The Maricopa County sheriff s office is prepared to house up to 100 suspected
illegal immigrants in an existing complex of military surplus tents outside the
county jail.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman orders ban on city travel to protest Arizona
immigration law

BYLINE: By Pioneer Press staff

SECTION: POLITICS; News

LENGTH: 381 words


St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman today announced an order banning city-funded travel
to the state of Arizona.

Reacting to that state's new immigration law, which has drawn national fire for
giving police the right to ask possible illegal immigrants for proof of
citizenship, Coleman also urges other cities and governments to ban travel to
Arizona.

Few if any St. Paul officials or workers had any trips to Arizona planned that
would have to be canceled.

The text of the announcement is below:

Mayor Coleman Orders Boycott of Publicly Funded Travel to State of Arizona

Coleman Bans Publicly Funded Travel in Response to Recently Passed Law Targeting
Immigrants for Criminal Prosecution, Will Call for Boycott of Phoenix for 2012
Political Conventions

(Saint Paul) - Saint Paul Mayor Chris Coleman took a stand today, ordering City
departments to no longer travel to conferences in the State of Arizona. Coleman
issued the order today in solidarity with other cities and organizations in
boycotting the State of Arizona in protest of the recent signage of SB1070 by
Governor Jan Brewer.

"This law sets a dangerous example for the rest of the country. It will create a
culture where racial profiling is acceptable, and will create a dangerous wedge
between police officers and the communities they serve. We've seen what can be
done through partnering with immigrant communities and its effects on issues
such as domestic violence rates, violent crime, and overall community safety.

It would be immoral to not stand up in the face of a piece of legislation that
is rooted in hate and fear. We are a country of immigrants - and SB 1070 is an
affront to our constitution and the values we hold dear as Americans. It's not
worthy of who we are as a people - and it's certainly not worthy of the
investment of any city dollars being spent in Arizona.

I can't imagine what it would have been like for my grandmother had they passed
a similar anti-Irish law. Today I choose to stand with the millions of
immigrants in our City and across the country who should have access to the same
level of safety and opportunity as everyone else."

Coleman also noted that he would write to the chairmen of both the DNC and the
RNC to encourage them to not choose Phoenix, a contender for their national
conventions, in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman gives his 2010 State of the City Address
at the Visitor's Center Auditorium at Como Park Zoo and Conservatory in St.
Paul, Minn., on Thursday, April 23, 2010. (Pioneer Press: Ben Garvin)
Victor Magill, 15, of Phoenix, paints a sign in protest of immigration bill
SB1070 Saturday, April 24, 2010 at the Capitol in Phoenix a day after Arizona
Gov. Jan Brewer signed the bill into law. The sweeping measure would make it a
crime under state law to be in the country illegally, and would require local
law enforcement to question people about their immigration status if there is
reason to suspect they are in the country illegally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Potent reaction to Minnesota immigration bill

BYLINE: By Jason Hoppin jhoppin@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Legislature; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Local

LENGTH: 337 words


A Minnesota bill modeled after the controversial Arizona immigration law
continued to draw sharp reaction Friday, one day after being introduced in the
Minnesota House.

The bill's sponsor, Rep. Steve Drazkowski, R-Wabasha, said constituents and
others have been positive in their comments.

"Outstanding reaction," Drazkowski said. "Overwhelmingly supportive. 'Thank you
for bringing leadership.' "

Set to take effect July 28, the Arizona law makes it a misdemeanor to be in the
state without legal documents and asks state and local officers to help enforce
federal immigration laws.

The Minnesota bill stands almost no chance of advancing in the DFL-controlled
Legislature, but that hasn't stopped a flood of criticism that echoes the
outrage of Latino groups and others to the Arizona law. Among the most prominent
critics locally are St. Paul Police Chief John Harrington and Minneapolis Police
Chief Tom Dolan, who said in a joint news release that the bill would hamper
crime-fighting efforts.

"The culture of fear that this bill will instill in immigrant communities will
keep victims of crime and people with information about crime from coming
forward, and that will endanger all residents," the chiefs said. They were
joined by St. Paul's police chief-select, Tom Smith.

The criticism was similar to opposition to past Republican efforts to strip the
Twin Cities of their so-called sanctuary laws, which prohibit police from
inquiring about immigrations status. The chiefs support that law to encourage
victims of domestic violence to cooperate with investigations without fear of
being deported.

The Arizona law spurred St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman to bar official city trips
to Arizona, and Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak to request the same.

Drazkowski said he isn't worried about the reaction to the Arizona law, saying
it's being stirred by those who favor illegal immigration.

"As soon as a good number of states get these laws passed ... these people will
realize they're on the wrong side of the issue," Drazkowski said.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Madison / Doyle not backing immigration law

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 130 words


Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle rejected a request by the attorney general to join a
legal brief in support of Arizona's immigration law.

Republican Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen sought permission from the
Democratic governor to join Michigan's legal brief opposing the federal
government's challenging of the Arizona law. Before Van Hollen can take such an
action, he needs approval from either the governor or Legislature.

Doyle spokesman Adam Collins said Tuesday that the governor denied the request
because it was an obvious political stunt and joining such an action would be a
waste of taxpayer dollars.

The Arizona law set to take effect in two weeks would require police to question
and possibly arrest illegal immigrants during the enforcement of other laws.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Doyle denies request to join immigration fight

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 129 words


MADISON, Wis. Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle has denied a request by the attorney
general to join a legal brief in support of Arizona's immigration law.

Republican Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen requested permission from the
Democratic Doyle to join Michigan's legal brief opposing the federal
government's challenging of the Arizona law. Before Van Hollen can take such an
action, he needs approval from either the governor or Legislature.

Doyle spokesman Adam Collins said Tuesday that the governor denied the request
because it was an obvious political stunt and joining such an action would be a
waste of taxpayer dollars.

The Arizona law set to take effect in two weeks would require police to question
and possibly arrest illegal immigrants during the enforcement of other laws.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

Judge will hear first arguments over blocking new Arizona law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 392 words


PHOENIX -- A federal judge will hold the first major court hearing in one of the
seven legal challenges to Arizona's new immigration law.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton was scheduled to hear arguments today over Gov.
Jan Brewer's request to dismiss the challenge filed by Phoenix police officer
David Salgado and the statewide nonprofit group Chicanos Por La Causa.

Bolton also will listen to arguments in the officer's request to temporarily put
the law on hold and prevent it from taking effect July 29.

The law requires police, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's
immigration status if officers have a reasonable suspicion that the person is in
the country illegally.

It also makes it a state crime for immigrants to not carry immigration
documents.

The other challenges to the law were filed by the U.S. Department of Justice,
civil rights organizations, clergy groups, a researcher from Washington and a
Tucson police officer.

Bolton will hold similar hearings on July 22 in the lawsuits filed by the
federal government and civil rights groups.

Last week, the judge said she wasn't making any promises on whether she will
rule on requests to block enforcement of the law before it takes effect.

Salgado's attorneys argue the judge should block the law before it takes effect
because it would require him to use race as a primary factor in enforcing the
law and because the state law is trumped by federal immigration law.

Attorneys for Brewer, who signed the measure into law, asked that the officer's
lawsuit be thrown out because he hasn't alleged a real threat of harm from
enforcing the new law and instead bases his claim on speculation.

The governor's lawyers also said the law prohibits racial profiling and that it
isn't trumped by federal immigration because it doesn't try to regulate the
conditions under which people can enter and leave the country.

Meanwhile, Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox has filed a legal brief on behalf
of nine states supporting the Arizona law.

The Republican gubernatorial candidate said Wednesday that Michigan is the lead
state backing Arizona in federal court. Michigan is joined by Alabama, Florida,
Nebraska, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas and Virginia, as
well as the Northern Mariana Islands.

Cox says states are authorized to enforce immigration laws and protect their
borders.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday

Judge starts hearing on Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud Associated Press

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; National

LENGTH: 609 words


PHOENIX -- A federal judge heard arguments today in a packed Phoenix courtroom
over whether Arizona's tough new immigration law should take effect next week.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton was holding the hearing on whether the law
should be put on hold and whether a lawsuit filed by civil rights groups and
others challenging it should be dismissed.

About 30 lawyers were in court to represent defendants in the case. There also
were about 150 spectators in the courtroom, many in a second-floor gallery.

Defendants include various county officials from throughout the state, most of
whom sent lawyers to the hearing. Cochise County Sheriff Larry Dever was there
in person, however, sitting at the front of the courtroom.

Dever's county is on the Arizona-Mexico border and he knew a rancher who was
killed in March on his ranch by a suspected illegal immigrant, possibly a scout
for drug smugglers.

The killing of Robert Krentz in many ways set the stage for the new Arizona law
to pass, with politicians calling for action amid border violence.

Supporters and opponents of the law demonstrated outside, gathering in prayer
before the hearing started.

Sarah Fox, a 64-year-old Phoenix nurse, said the new law takes the country's
economic problems out on immigrants, who she believes are being used as a
scapegoat.

"It's morally wrong," she said. "I'm getting old and I don't have many years
left to speak out against what is wrong."

Debbi MacNicol, a 55-year-old Phoenix psychiatric nurse who carried a gun on her
hip and wore a T-shirt that read "Don't Tread on Me," said she supports the law
because she fears Mexico's drug war will spill over into Arizona.

"It wasn't as much an issue until it started putting our lives at risk," she
said.

Bolton was set to hold another hearing in the afternoon on the U.S. Justice
Department's request for a preliminary injunction blocking implementation of the
immigration law.

The law requires officers, while enforcing other laws, to check a person's
immigration status if there's a reasonable suspicion that the person is here
illegally. It also bans people from blocking traffic when they seek or offer
day-labor services on streets and prohibits illegal immigrants from soliciting
work in public places.

Since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the measure into law on April 23, it has inspired
rallies in Arizona and elsewhere by advocates on both sides of the immigration
debate. Some opponents have advocated a tourism boycott of Arizona.

It also led an unknown number of illegal immigrants to leave Arizona for other
U.S. states or their home countries and prompted seven challenges by the Justice
Department, civil rights groups, two Arizona police officers, a Latino clergy
group and a researcher from Washington.

Justice Department lawyers contend that local police shouldn't be allowed to
enforce the law because, in part, it's disrupting the United States' relations
with Mexico and other countries.

Attorneys for Brewer argue that the federal government based its challenge on
misconceptions of what the law would do and that Washington's inadequate
immigration enforcement has left the state with heavy costs for educating,
incarcerating and providing health care for illegal immigrants.

In the challenge by civil rights groups, Brewer and other officials said the
lawsuit should be thrown out because the groups don't allege a real threat of
harm from enforcing the new law and instead base their claims on speculation.

The civil rights groups said their clients will suffer imminent harm, such as a
social service organization that will have to divert resources from its programs
to instead assist those affected by the new law.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Judge blocks parts of Arizona immigration law, sets up fight in courts

BYLINE: By Amanda Myers Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; National

LENGTH: 1080 words


PHOENIX -- A federal judge dealt a serious rebuke to Arizona's
toughest-in-the-nation immigration law on Wednesday when she put most of the
crackdown on hold just hours before it was to take effect.

The ruling by U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton shifts the immigration debate to
the courts and sets up a lengthy legal battle that may not be decided until the
Supreme Court weighs in. Republican Gov. Jan Brewer said the state will likely
appeal the ruling and seek to get the judge's order overturned.

But for now, opponents of the law have prevailed: The provisions that most
angered opponents will not take effect, including sections that required
officers to check a person's immigration status while enforcing other laws.

The judge also delayed parts of the law that required immigrants to carry their
papers at all times, and made it illegal for undocumented workers to solicit
employment in public places -- a move aimed at day laborers. In addition, the
judge blocked officers from making warrantless arrests of suspected illegal
immigrants.

"Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies to determine the
immigration status of every person who is arrested burdens lawfully-present
aliens because their liberty will be restricted while their status is checked,"
Bolton, a Clinton appointee, said in her decision.

She said the controversial sections should be put on hold until the courts
resolve the issues. Other provisions of the law, many of them slight revisions
to existing Arizona immigration statute, will go into effect at 12:01 a.m.
Thursday.

The law was signed by Brewer in April and immediately revived the national
debate on immigration, making it a hot-button issue in the midterm elections.
The law has inspired similar action elsewhere, prompted a boycott against
Arizona and led an unknown number of illegal immigrants to leave the state.

Lawyers for the state contend the law was a constitutionally sound attempt by
Arizona to assist federal immigration agents and lessen border woes such as the
heavy costs for educating, jailing and providing health care for illegal
immigrants. Arizona is the busiest gateway into the country for illegal
immigrants, and the state's border with Mexico is awash in drugs and smugglers
that authorities badly want to stop.

Brewer's lawyers said Arizona shouldn't have to suffer from America's broken
immigration system when it has 15,000 police officers who can arrest illegal
immigrants.

"It's a temporary bump in the road, we will move forward, and I'm sure that
after consultation with our counsel we will appeal," Brewer told The Associated
Press. "The bottom line is we've known all along that it is the responsibility
of the feds and they haven't done their job so we were going to help them do
that."

The ruling came just as police were making last-minute preparations to begin
enforcement of the law and protesters were planning large demonstrations against
the measure. At least one group planned to block access to federal offices,
daring officers to ask them about their immigration status.

In a sign of the international interest in the law, about 100 protesters in
Mexico City who had gathered in front of the U.S. Embassy broke into cheers when
speakers told them about the federal judge's ruling. The demonstrators had been
monitoring the news on a laptop computer on the stage.

The crowd clapped and started chanting, "Migrants, hang on, the people are
rising up!"

Gisela and Eduardo Diaz went to the Mexican consulate in Phoenix on Wednesday
seeking advice because they were worried about what would happen to their
3-year-old granddaughter if they were pulled over by police and taken to a
detention center.

"I knew the judge would say that part of the law was just not right," said Diaz,
a 50-year-old from Mexico City who came to Arizona on a since-expired tourist
visa in 1989. "It's the part we were worried about. This is a big relief for
us."

Opponents argued the law would lead to racial profiling, conflict with federal
immigration law and distract local police from fighting more serious crimes. The
U.S. Justice Department, civil rights groups and a Phoenix police officer had
asked the judge for an injunction to prevent the law from being enforced.

"There is a substantial likelihood that officers will wrongfully arrest legal
resident aliens under the new (law)," Bolton ruled.

Federal authorities have argued that letting the Arizona law stand would create
a patchwork of immigration laws nationwide that would burden the agency that
responds to immigration-status inquiries and disrupt U.S. relations with Mexico
and other countries.

The core of the government's case is that federal immigration law trumps state
law -- an issue known as "pre-emption" in legal circles. The judge plainly
accepted that view, pointing out five portions of the law where she believed the
federal government would likely succeed on its claims that U.S. law supersedes
state law.

"Even though Arizona's interests may be consistent with those of the federal
government, it is not in the public interest for Arizona to enforce pre-empted
laws," Bolton wrote.

Supporters of the law took solace in the fact that the judge did keep several
portions of the law intact, including a section that bars local governments from
limiting enforcement of federal immigration laws. Those jurisdictions are
commonly known as "sanctuary cities."

"Striking down these sanctuary city policies have always been the No. 1 priority
of SB1070," said Sen. Russell Pearce, a Mesa Republican who sponsored the law.

Brewer is running for another term in November and has seen her political
fortunes rise because of the law's popularity among conservatives. It's not yet
clear how the ruling will affect her campaign, but her opponent was quick to
pounce.

"Jan Brewer played politics with immigration, and she lost," said Arizona
Attorney General Terry Goddard, a Democrat. "It is time to look beyond election
year grandstanding and begin to repair the damage to Arizona's image and
economy."

The law has drawn considerable support among residents in heavily Republican
Arizona, where people are fed up with the problems associated with illegal
immigration. Ryan Alexander, 39, says illegal immigration has helped bring down
wages for jobs in America and created what he calls a slave-labor market.

"I don't think any of that is good," he said. "Bottom line is if you're not
supposed to be here, you shouldn't be here, whether you're Russian or whatever."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Maria Uribe, center, and other opponents of Arizona State Bill 1070
celebrate outside the Arizona State Capitol building in Phoenix on Wednesday,
July 28, 2010 as they hear the news that U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton issued
an injunction for the key portions of the controversial bill. (AP Photo/Houston
Chronicle, Nick de la Torre) MANDATORY CREDIT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

Judge blocks parts of Arizona immigration law

BYLINE: By Randal C. Archibold New York Times

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 910 words


PHOENIX -- A federal judge Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts of
Arizona's immigration enforcement law from taking effect, a ruling that at least
temporarily squashed a state policy that had catalyzed a national debate over
immigration.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton issued a preliminary injunction against
sections of the law, scheduled to take effect today, that called for police
officers to check a person's immigration status while enforcing other laws and
required immigrants to prove that they were authorized to be in the country or
risk state charges.

She issued the injunction in response to a legal challenge brought against the
law by the Obama administration.

A spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who signed the law and has
campaigned on it for election to a full term, said she would appeal the
injunction today.

Legal experts predicted the case could end up before the Supreme Court.

The law, designed to seek and deport illegal immigrants in a state that is the
principal gateway for illegal border crossers, had provoked intense debate,
drawing support in several polls but generating boycotts of the state by major
civil rights groups and several cities and towns.

It renewed calls for an overhaul of federal immigration law and led to repeated
rebukes of it from President Barack Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder, who
maintained that immigration policy is under the purview of the federal
government.

The Mexican government, joined by seven other Latin American nations, supported
one of the lawsuits against the law; the attorneys general of several states
backed Arizona.

The ruling came four days before 1,200 National Guard members were scheduled to
report to the U.S.-Mexico border to assist federal and local law enforcement
agencies there, part of the Obama administration's response to growing anxiety
over the border and immigration that has federal support for the law.

Bolton, who was appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton, allowed some,
less debated provisions of the law to take effect, including one that bans
cities from refusing to cooperate with federal immigration agents.

But she largely sided with arguments in a lawsuit by the Obama administration
that the law, rather than closely hewing to existing federal statutes, as its
supporters have claimed, interferes with federal authority over immigration and
could lead to harassment of citizens and legal immigrants.

"Preserving the status quo through a preliminary injunction is less harmful than
allowing state laws that are likely pre-empted by federal law to be enforced,"
she said.

"There is a substantial likelihood that officers will wrongfully arrest legal
resident aliens," she wrote. "By enforcing this statute, Arizona would impose,"
she said, citing a previous Supreme Court case, a " 'distinct, unusual and
extra-ordinary' burden on legal resident aliens that only the federal government
has the authority to impose."

Her decision was not her final word on the case. In granting the injunction, she
simply indicated that the Justice Department was likely, but not certain, to
prevail on those points at a later trial in federal court. She did not rule on
the six other suits that challenged the law.

Her ruling, issued as demonstrators both for and against the law gathered here,
and after hearings in three of the seven lawsuits against it, seemed more likely
to prolong the debate rather than settle matters.

"This fight is far from over," said Brewer, whose lawyers had argued that
Congress granted states the power to enforce immigration law particularly when,
in their view, the federal government fell short. "In fact," she added, "it is
just the beginning, and at the end of what is certain to be a long legal
struggle, Arizona will prevail in its right to protect our citizens."

State Sen. Russell Pearce, a Republican and chief sponsor of the law, said in a
statement that he was confident that the sections blocked by Bolton would
survive on appeal, noting the state's previous victories in court on other
statutes designed to give it a larger role in immigration enforcement.

But Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of Arizona School of Law who has
studied the law, called the ruling "a nearly complete victory for the position
of the United States."

Aside from stopping the requirement that police initiate immigration checks, the
judge also blocked provisions that allowed the police to hold anyone arrested
for any crime until his immigration status was determined.

She also said Arizona could not make it a state crime for noncitizens to be in
the state without proper documents, nor could it allow the police to conduct
warrantless arrests of people if officers believed the offense would result in
their deportation. She said there was a "substantial likelihood" of wrongful
arrests.

The parts of the law she allowed were not challenged by the Justice Department
but figure in some of the other lawsuits filed. They include forbidding
so-called "sanctuary city" policies by allowing residents to sue the local
authorities if they adopt policies restricting cooperation with the federal
government in immigration enforcement.

She also let stand a provision aimed at day laborers, who are mostly Latin
American immigrants, by making it a crime to stop a vehicle in traffic or block
traffic to hire someone off the street. But she blocked a provision that barred
illegal immigrants from soliciting work in public places.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Day laborers sit outside a store Wednesday, July 28, 2010 in Phoenix.
All the men said they were pleased with Federal Judge Bolton's ruling which
blocked the most controversial sections of Arizona's new immigration law from
taking effect Thursday.
This undated photo taken from video and provided by KSAZ-TV FOX 10, shows U.S.
District Judge Susan Bolton on the bench in Phoenix, Ariz. Bolton, a former
state court judge appointed to the federal bench in 2000 by President Bill
Clinton, will decide whether to block Arizona's sweeping new immigration law,
which requires police, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's
immigration status if officers have a reasonable suspicion that the person is in
the country illegally. (AP Photo/KSAZ-TV FOX 10) TV OUT; NO SALES; MANDATORY
CREDIT
In this image made from video, Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio speaks to the
media Wednesday, July 28, 2010 in Phoenix shortly before portions of Arizona's
new immigration law, SB1070, were blocked by a federal judge. (AP Photo/Haven
Daley)
Federal police officers stand outside the grounds of the Sandra Day O'Connor
Court House Wednesday, July 28, 2010 in Phoenix moments after portions of
Arizona's new immigration law, SB1070, was blocked by a Federal Judge. The judge
has blocked the most controversial sections of Arizona's new immigration law
from taking effect Thursday, handing a major legal victory to opponents of the
crackdown. The law will still take effect Thursday, but without many of the
provisions that angered opponents _ including sections that required officers to
check a person's immigration status while enforcing other laws. The judge also
put on hold a part of the law that required immigrants to carry their papers at
all times, and made it illegal for undocumented workers to solicit employment in
public places. (AP Photo/Matt York)
Marcela Saragoza, right, and Joseline Saragoza, 9, both of Phoenix, cry as they
celebrate at the Arizona capitol Wednesday, July 28, 2010 in Phoenix, shortly
after portions of Arizona's new immigration law, SB1070, were blocked by a
federal judge. The judge has blocked the most controversial sections of
Arizona's new immigration law from taking effect Thursday, handing a major legal
victory to opponents of the crackdown. The law will still take effect Thursday,
but without many of the provisions that angered opponents, including sections
that required officers to check a person's immigration status while enforcing
other laws. The judge also put on hold a part of the law that required
immigrants to carry their papers at all times, and made it illegal for
undocumented workers to solicit employment in public places. (AP Photo/Ross D.
Franklin)
Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, right, speaks after a hearing she attended, as John
Bouma, left, the attorney for the state of Arizona in the lawsuit brought by the
federal government regarding the SB1070 Arizona immigration law, stands behind
the governor in front of U.S. District Court Thursday, July 22, 2010, in
Phoenix. U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton is holding multiple hearings on
whether the new Arizona immigration law should take effect on July 29. (AP
Photo/Ross D. Franklin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday

Judge who blocked law suddenly in spotlight

BYLINE: By Sandhya Somashekhar Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 687 words


The federal judge who blocked key aspects of Arizona's new immigration law was
so well regarded across the political spectrum that she was nominated to the
federal bench by President Bill Clinton, a Democrat, who tapped her on the
recommendation of Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., one of Congress' most conservative
senators.

This week, however, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton became one of the nation's
most divisive figures, after halting much of Arizona's high-profile effort to
identify and deport illegal immigrants.

Hate mail and threats flowed into her court offices, according to news reports.
Conservative bloggers decried her "activist" leanings and accused her of falling
in with the American Civil Liberties Union, a prominent challenger of the law
and a favorite target of the right. And Kyl, who during Bolton's nomination
hearings in 2000 lauded her expertise and fairness, did not conceal his
disappointment.

"I really thought that she would uphold most of the law and allow Arizona to try
to do its best to enforce the law to the extent that the federal government
wasn't doing so," he said on the Fox News program "Happening Now."

Bolton is no stranger to controversy or to cases that might elicit death
threats. Since beginning her career as a judge in 1989, she has taken on Mexican
smugglers, civil libertarians and members of the Arizona Legislature. While a
Superior Court justice in Maricopa County, she handled some of the most complex
and delicate cases to come before the court, a colleague said. In her decade on
the federal bench, she has overseen cases that touched on border issues.

No other case, however, has thrust her into the national spotlight like her
decision Wednesday to block the most contentious parts of Arizona's law,
including provisions that would have required police officers to check the
immigration status of people they arrest. People close to Bolton said she is a
meticulous jurist who is not easily shaken by such attention.

"Put it this way: Susan has never been accused of being a coward," said retired
Superior Judge Ken Fields, who worked alongside Bolton for a decade. "She's
probably the perfect judge to have for this case. She analyzes the facts and
makes a decision without bias one way or the other."

Bolton, 58, a Philadelphia native, attended college and law school in Iowa.
Shortly after receiving her law degree, she joined a firm in Tempe, Ariz. She
served on the state Superior Court for Maricopa from 1989 until 2000, when she
was appointed to the federal bench.

During her tenure, she has handled numerous cases related to illegal
immigration. In 2001, she presided over the case of a smuggler sentenced to 16
years in prison for leading 14 illegal immigrants to their deaths in the desert.
A year later, she dismissed a suit by legal U.S. residents against Border Patrol
agents accused of racial profiling in a 1997 immigration raid.

In a 2000 decision that angered some politicians, she removed from the ballot a
growth-control measure backed by the state Legislature, ruling it
unconstitutional. It had been proposed as an alternative to an
environmentalist-backed measure.

Friends and colleagues say Bolton is hard-working, intelligent and exceptionally
confident in the courtroom. Lawyers who have brought cases before her say she is
well prepared and thorough, prone to asking questions of witnesses as she
gathers information to rule on a case.

John Randolph, who knows her from her days in private practice in Tempe in the
1970s and 1980s, said she had an "intellectual interest in the arguments"
related to violence against women. In 1987, she co-wrote with her husband, Frank
Bolton, the book "Working with Violent Families: A Guide for Clinical and Legal
Practitioners."

Randolph described Bolton as intellectually curious and well versed on subjects
ranging from art to world affairs, which they would often talk about at length
with their spouses over the dinner table, but said she has never tipped her hand
on her political views.

"She was very difficult to figure out politically," he said. "I couldn't figure
it out then, and I can't figure it out now."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 21, 2010 Monday

Main news: A McClatchy Newspapers story Saturday on Page 5A about Rep. Joe
Barton, R-Texas, incorrectly implied that Democratic congressional candidate
David Cozad, who's running against Barton, is directly affiliated with the
joebartonwantsto apologize.

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: CORRECTIONS

LENGTH: 124 words


Sports: An Arizona immigration law that will take effect July 29 will require
police, while enforcing other laws, to ask about a person's immigration status
if there is reasonable suspicion that the person is in the country illegally.
Because of an editing error, this information was incomplete in Saturday's
Pioneer Press.

Main news: An article on Page 1A Monday about cost-sharing proposals for new
high-voltage transmission construction misstated a vote last Thursday by the
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission regarding a request to push back the
start-date for a proposed transmission line from Brookings, S.D., to Hampton.
The PUC voted to allow more time to accept comments on the proposed change. A
July 29 hearing has been scheduled.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Nebraska city delays immigration law

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 124 words


The eastern Nebraska city of Fremont has suspended a voter-approved ban on
hiring and renting property to illegal immigrants, less than two days before it
was set to take effect.

City council unanimously voted Tuesday to suspend the ordinance, which is being
challenged in court. Officials said the move will save the city money in its
legal defense.

The council narrowly rejected the ban in 2008, prompting supporters to gather
enough signatures for the ballot measure. Voters approved the ban last month.

The city faces lawsuits from the American Civil Liberties Union and the Mexican
American Legal Defense & Educational Fund. A federal judge was to consider today
whether to temporarily block the ban from taking effect Thursday.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 23, 2009 Saturday

Patrick McIlheran: How to decide who gets in?

BYLINE: By Patrick McIlheran

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 791 words


The feds, it seems, may not require spiffed-up drivers licenses meant to thwart
identity fraud. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano now talks of trying
to repeal the 'Real ID' law. She says it's a costly hassle for states.

Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, the Milwaukee-area Republican who wrote the law, says
it's just the Obama administration out to kill an effective screen for illegal
immigrants, because states must check immigration status. "But they're not going
to admit it," he said. Licenses for illegal immigrants are unpopular with most
voters but are a favor to an Obama-voting Latino bloc.

So one more dog gets wagged by the tail that is immigration policy. Presidents,
lawmakers, left, right -- all say they want to fix immigration. Yet from college
aid to what questions cops can ask, the immigration argument hides within other
issues.

It's because many would rather avoid the real question: If our policies leave
too many people waiting in line, then how much wider should the gate be opened?

It's hard even to get immigration advocates to commit. "That's a really tricky
one," said Michele Waslin of the Immigration Policy Center, a think tank
sponsored by immigration lawyers. Waslin suggested that perhaps we issue enough
visas to make legal the current flow of "undocumented" immigrants -- "so it's
not really adding any new people."

Others are still hazier. We can't have open borders, says Tony Baez, head of the
Milwaukee-based Council for the Spanish Speaking -- it's "not about letting
people just come in," he said sensibly. Maybe we don't need more, he suggested,
just a different way of allocating visas. He feels we may be too easy on, say,
engineers from India and not open enough for farmhands from Oaxaca.

Reasonable, if your focus is defending millions who got tired of waiting and
sneaked in. But leave aside the hard question of illegal immigrants here. How do
we handle years-long lines there?

We become more deliberate, Jacob Vigdor suggests.

Vigdor, an economist teaching public policy at Duke University, last year came
up with a way of measuring -- as opposed to arguing fruitlessly about -- the
degree to which immigrants fit into American society. His assimilation index
measures not merely whether immigrants learn English and eat burgers -- that is,
cultural assimilation. It measures whether they thrive in our economy and, as
well, what he calls civic assimilation, their formal participation in American
society, mainly through seeking citizenship.

Not all groups are alike. Take Canadians and Vietnamese. Culturally, Canadian
immigrants are almost indistinguishable from the native-born, but they don't
civically assimilate much. Many are students or here for work. They see their
stay as temporary, even if it isn't. Vietnamese, says Vigdor, are slower to
learn English and less often marry non-immigrants. But fleeing tyranny, "they
became very dedicated to the country, and the naturalization rate of Vietnamese
immigrants is through the roof."

Americans since the Founders have had a soft spot for such people. Customarily,
immigration's been about welcoming foreigners who may go on eating kielbasa but
would in some core way want to become Americans -- who "felt a permanent sense
of attachment to the United States," Vigdor said. That's still important. You
could probably muster broad support for more visas "if we're more serious about
picking and choosing the people who we think are going to fit in with our
historical vision" -- if we filtered for people more likely to civically
assimilate.

How? We could, he suggests, mirror Australia's policy of discounting entrance
fees. Ours are comparatively low. Suppose we raised them but gave refunds when
immigrants learned English or were naturalized. We now mainly allow in relatives
and those with scarce skills. Vigdor would keep those channels, but with such
competition for the few visas for others who just want to come and find
opportunity, we can widen that channel selectively: "There's millions of people
out there who would jump at the chance," he said.

Just saying it shows why a comprehensive fix is hard. Ethnically based immigrant
rights groups may well balk at pushing assimilation instead of their own groups'
family reunification. Businesses often are keen on temps, especially the skilled
experts who, as Vigdor said, "view themselves as citizens of the world."

The question is what's best for the U.S. Certainly, fixing that which allows and
attracts millions of illegal immigrants is important. But it's fair as well to
ask what we want of those we let in. A longing to be American might be a start.

Patrick McIlheran is an editorial columnist for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
His e-mail address is pmcilheran@journalsentinel.com

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday

White House forum renews focus on immigration policy

BYLINE: By William Douglas McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 675 words


WASHINGTON -- On the eve of the White House's long-delayed bipartisan meeting
today to kick off its drive to revamp U.S. immigration policy, lawmakers and
interest groups weighed in on what's needed in a bill.

On Wednesday, the senator tapped to write it, Democrat Charles Schumer of New
York, gave his most detailed outline to date on what he intends to include in an
immigration bill that he and congressional Democratic leaders say could be
written and voted on this fall.

Schumer's goal is to balance a get-tough approach to illegal immigration while
still providing a path to citizenship for the nearly 12 million illegal
immigrants who are already here.

"I do not believe that a bipartisan immigration bill can be enacted if my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle do not believe that Democrats are
serious about enforcement," Schumer told a conference at Georgetown University.

Schumer said Democrats can no longer afford to use soft, euphemistic language
about illegal immigration if they are to pass an immigration bill on Obama's
watch.

"When we use phrases like 'undocumented workers,' we convey a message to the
American people that their government is not serious about combating illegal
immigration, which the American people overwhelmingly op-pose."

Schumer's immigration plan includes:


     ·    Acknowledging that illegal immigration is wrong and making a dramatic
          reduction in future illegal immigration a priority.



     ·    Bolstering infrastructure, technology and personnel along the U.S.
          border within a year of enactment.



     ·    Using a biometric-based employer verification system to "significantly
          diminish the job magnet that attracts illegal aliens to the United
          States."



     ·    Registering all illegal aliens inside the country upon enactment of
          the new law and having them "submit to a rigorous process of
          converting to legal status and earning a path to citizenship -- or
          face imminent deportment."



     ·    Making reunification of families "a cornerstone value of our
          immigration system."



     ·    Encouraging immigration of the "world's best and brightest
          individuals" to the United States while discouraging businesses from
          using immigration laws to "obtain temporary and less-expensive foreign
          labor to replace capable American workers."



     ·    Changing the current flow of unskilled illegal workers into a more
          manageable flow of legal ones who can be absorbed by the economy.


Schumer laid down his markers one day before he and other lawmakers convene at
the White House to launch Obama's effort to overhaul the country's immigration
policy, a goal that eluded his predecessor, George W. Bush.

The meeting comes after two postponements, which prompted some immigration
advocates to question Obama's commitment to Hispanic voters. Obama promised
during the presidential campaign that he would address immigration in his first
year in office.

That vow helped him earn 67 percent of the Hispanic vote to Republican
presidential candidate John McCain's 31 percent.

"We see this as really a critical moment of truth on immigration," said the Most
Rev. Jaime Soto, the bishop of Sacramento, Calif., and a member of the U.S.
Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee on Migration. "Tomorrow's meeting will
tell us if the administration is serious about enacting comprehensive
immigration reform this year."

White House officials and congressional Democratic leaders have given mixed
signals on how eager they are to move immigration forward. Their agenda is
already loaded with complex urgent challenges, including an overhaul of national
health insurance, trying to cap carbon emissions, redesigning financial
regulation and confirming a new justice for the Supreme Court.

White House press secretary Robert Gibbs said Monday that Obama would like to
see immigration addressed this year, but added "currently where we sit, the math
makes that real difficult."

However, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said Tuesday that he has the
votes to push immigration legislation through the Senate.

"What is impacting doing comprehensive immigration reform is getting floor time
to do it," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 18, 2010 Thursday

Briefing: Senators offer bipartisan immigration plan

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 934 words


LOS ANGELES -- Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.,
have proposed a comprehensive, bipartisan immigration reform framework that
would include tougher border enforcement, creation of biometric Social Security
cards and a path to legalization for the nation's estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants. The announcement, which brought immediate praise from
President Barack Obama, comes days before an immigration rights march scheduled
for the nation's capital on Sunday. 'It thoughtfully addresses the need to shore
up our borders, and demands accountability from both workers who are here
illegally and employers who game the system,' Obama said in a statement. 'A
critical next step will be to translate their framework into a legislative
proposal, and for Congress to act at the earliest possible opportunity.'
Subpoenas issued in Ensign inquiry

WASHINGTON -- A federal grand jury has issued subpoenas to a Republican campaign
committee and companies in Nevada in a probe of Sen. John Ensign, who has been
under scrutiny for his efforts to find lobbying work for the husband of his
former mistress. One subpoena went to the National Republican Senatorial
Committee, which was formerly chaired by Ensign, a Nevada Republican, committee
spokesman Brian Walsh said Thursday. Sean Cairncross, general counsel for the
group that is the campaign committee for Republican Senate candidates, said the
committee has responded appropriately to questions concerning matters related to
the timeframe of the 2008 election campaign. On Thursday, a Las Vegas television
station reported that grand jury subpoenas in the Ensign probe went to six Las
Vegas businesses that it did not name.Risky high chairs prompting recall

WASHINGTON -- The government is announcing a recall of 1.2 million high chairs
it says pose a fall hazard to children. The Consumer Product Safety Commission
announced the voluntary recall Thursday involving the product made by Graco
Children's Products Inc. The agency said "screws holding the front legs of the
high chair can loosen and fall out" and said cracking plastic brackets can cause
the high chair to "tip over unexpectedly." These tip-overs resulted in 24
reports of injuries. The commission said consumers should stop using the chairs
and identified the recall product as "all Harmony-TM high chairs." Split court
upholds Ashcroft decision

BOISE, Idaho -- A federal appellate court said Thursday it wouldn't reconsider
its ruling that former Attorney General John Ashcroft can be held personally
responsible for misuse of the material witness statute after the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks. The ruling came after a majority of the full 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals voted to deny Ashcroft's request amid bitter dissent by eight of its
judges. Abdullah al-Kidd, a U.S. citizen, sued Ashcroft and other federal
officials after he was arrested and jailed as a material witness in a terrorism
case against another man. He said his arrest and detention were just a ruse to
give the government time to investigate him for any potential wrongdoing. He was
never called to testify at trial.Man admits role in India terror attack

CHICAGO -- A Chicago man admitted Thursday that he scouted out the Indian city
of Mumbai for a 2008 terrorist attack that left 166 people dead and plotted an
attack on a Danish newspaper over cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad. David
Coleman Headley, a 49-year-old American citizen, pleaded guilty in U.S. District
Court to all 12 counts he faced. Under a deal with prosecutors, Headley will not
face execution if he continues to cooperate with the investigation. He could
face up to life in prison and a $3 million fine when he's sentenced. A date has
not been set. His attorney, Robert Seeder, said after the hearing that Headley's
decision to talk was "a manifestation and example of his regret and remorse" and
wasn't based solely on the fact he will avoid a possible death sentence.Thomas'
wife gets warning for group

WASHINGTON -- Virginia consumer protection officials have issued a warning
letter to the wife of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, noting that
her conservative advocacy group is improperly soliciting contributions in the
state. In a letter sent to Virginia Thomas on Thursday, the Office of Consumer
Affairs directed Liberty Central Inc. to the Virginia law that requires groups
to register with the office or request an exemption before seeking donations for
a charitable purpose. Liberty Central is a Virginia-based group soliciting
contributions online and is not registered or exempt, according to the consumer
affairs office. Political advocacy is considered a charitable purpose. Liberty
Central national coordinator Sue Hamblen said she was not aware of the
registration issue and would be looking into it.State abortion ban could be on
ballot

DENVER -- Colorado abortion opponents say they have enough signatures to put an
abortion-ending proposal on the ballot in the fall -- potentially the first
state this election year to see the question. Abortion opponents turned in more
than 46,000 signatures on Thursday, the second deadline for the ballot
initiative. The group needs only about 15,700 of those signatures to be deemed
valid for the abortion question to go to ballots this fall. The amendment would
give unborn fetuses human rights in the state constitution, setting up a likely
conflict with the U.S. Constitution over a woman's right to abortions. A similar
measure was on Colorado ballots in 2008, and voters soundly rejected it.

-- Associated Press, Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 21, 2010 Monday

Restrictive illegal immigration policy passes

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 95 words


FREMONT, Neb.-- Voters in the eastern Nebraska city of Fremont have approved a
ban on hiring or renting property to illegal immigrants.

The special election in Fremont on Monday was the latest proposal in a series of
immigration regulations around the country. About 57 percent of voters supported
the measure, which is expected to be challenged in court.

Supporters say the measure is needed to make up for what they see as lax federal
law enforcement. Freemont's Hispanic population has surged in the past two
decades, largely due to jobs at two nearby meatpacking plants.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

ICE director: states shouldn't follow Arizona lead

BYLINE: By DENA POTTER Associated Press Writer

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 647 words


RICHMOND, Va. States should not follow Arizona's lead and enact strict new
immigration laws because ridding the country of illegal immigrants is the
federal government's job, the director of the nation's immigration enforcement
agency said Tuesday.

Arizona's law, which takes effect July 29, directs police enforcing other laws
to ask about a suspect's immigration status if there is reason to believe that
the person is in the United States illegally.

Opponents have said the law will lead to racial profiling, and so far seven
lawsuits, including one from the federal government, have been filed to try to
stop its implementation.

So far, lawmakers in about 20 states have said they will push similar measures,
with bills already filed in five states South Carolina, Pennsylvania, Minnesota,
Rhode Island and Michigan.

"I don't think that 50 different immigration enforcement laws is the answer to
our immigration troubles," U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director
John Morton said in an interview. "I understand the frustration that many
communities feel over the question of illegal immigration, but having a
patchwork of state laws, I don't think is the right way to go."

In addition to calls for state laws, local governments in several states have
either passed similar laws or resolutions supporting Arizona's statute.

In Virginia, Prince William County Board of Supervisors chairman Corey A.
Stewart called on state lawmakers to pass a law allowing arrests without a
warrant if police suspect someone is in the country illegally. He also urged
them to let police break up places where day laborers many of them suspected to
be illegal immigrants gather in centers and along roadsides.

"As long as the federal government shows no interest in securing the border and
no interest in internal enforcement to promote self-deportation, then states and
localities will have to pick up the slack," Stewart said.

Morton shrugs off accusations that his agency isn't doing all it can. While it
doesn't have the resources to remove all of the estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants from the country, he said it is improving its ability to identify and
remove as many dangerous illegal aliens as possible.

Last year, ICE removed a record number of illegal immigrants nearly 388,000 and
criminal illegal aliens 136,000 from the U.S. Morton expects that number to
increase with the implementation of the national Secure Communities program,
which helps identify illegal immigrants through enhanced fingerprint-checking at
local jails.

Only Virginia, Florida and Delaware have implemented the program statewide. ICE
expects to make it available in all jurisdictions nationwide by 2013.

Morton wouldn't comment on the federal government's lawsuit aiming to stop the
Arizona law, which also makes it a crime for legal immigrants to not carry their
immigration documents.

Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox said this week he would file a legal brief in
support of Arizona's law by Wednesday, the deadline for such filings. He asked
other state's attorneys general to join. Spokeswoman Joy Yearout said the office
had heard from some states Tuesday, but would not reveal how many would join in
the brief until Wednesday.

In a letter to his counterparts nationwide, Cox accused the federal government
of "selective enforcement or even complete lack of enforcement of immigration
laws" rather than working with states, as had been tradition.

"Under this ad hoc approach, there is no cooperative effort on immigration but
only a one-way street where States lose control over their borders and are left
to guess at the reality of the law," Cox wrote.

In the lawsuit, the government argues that immigration laws passed by Congress
and enforced by federal agencies take precedence over state laws.

"Immigration the entry of people in and out of the country is clearly a federal
responsibility," Morton said.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday

Agency weighed skirting Congress on immigration

BYLINE: By Julie Hirschfeld Davis Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 673 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration, unable to push an immigration overhaul
through Congress, is considering ways it could go around lawmakers to let
undocumented immigrants stay in the United States, according to an agency memo.

The internal draft written by officials at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services outlines ways the government could provide "relief" to illegal
immigrants -- including delaying deportation for some, perhaps indefinitely, or
granting green cards to others -- in the absence of legislation revamping the
system.

It's emerging as chances fade in this election year for a measure President
Barack Obama favors to put the nation's estimated 12 million undocumented
immigrants on a path to legal status, and as debate rages over an Arizona law
targeting people suspected of being in the country illegally.

The 11-page internal memo, written in April to the agency's director, says:
"This memorandum offers administrative relief options to promote family unity,
foster economic growth, achieve significant process improvements and reduce the
threat of removal for certain individuals present in the United States without
authorization."

It goes on: "In the absence of comprehensive immigration reform, USCIS can
extend benefits and/or protections to many individuals or groups."

The memo drew a backlash by Republicans who called it evidence that Obama is
looking for ways of relaxing immigration policies without political consensus to
enact a new law.

"The document provides an additional basis for our concerns that the
administration will go to great lengths to circumvent Congress and unilaterally
execute a backdoor amnesty plan," said Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, who
obtained and circulated the memo. "The problem remains that if you reward
illegality, you get more of it."

Grassley led a group of conservative GOP senators who wrote to Obama in June
asking him to promise that the administration wouldn't use its authority to
"change the current position of a large group of illegal aliens already in the
United States."

The Iowan's staff said the group has not received a response.

"Now we find out the truth: While saying one thing to the public, the Obama
administration is scheming to ensure that immigration laws are not enforced,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, the top Republican on the House Judiciary
Committee.

Administration officials sought to downplay the memo's significance, saying it
was merely the product of brainstorming sessions and noting that many of the
ideas it suggests were first discussed when George W. Bush was president, after
his immigration overhaul died in Congress in 2007.

Agency spokesman Christopher Bentley said the internal document "should not be
equated with official action or policy," and represented only "deliberation and
exchange of ideas."

"We continue to maintain that comprehensive bipartisan legislation, coupled with
smart, effective enforcement, is the only solution to our nation's immigration
challenges," he said in a statement.

Still, the memo makes clear that even without such a bill, immigration officials
have identified a variety of ways to relax U.S. policy to let more undocumented
immigrants who might otherwise face deportation stay in the country. Among the
options outlined is expanding the use of "deferred action" -- in which the
government can use its discretion to halt a deportation indefinitely, usually
for an urgent humanitarian reason.

Another option included in the document is to allow more illegal immigrants to
receive "parole-in-place" status. This would let them stay in the U.S. while
they seek legal status.

It also suggests expanding the definition of "extreme hardship" for exceptions
in immigration cases -- a prospect that alarmed critics who said it could lower
the bar so virtually any undocumented person could meet it.

And the memo suggests allowing people who entered the U.S. illegally and were
granted "Temporary Protected Status" because of a crisis in their home countries
to stay and get permanent legal residency.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday

Nun's death at center of immigration controversy

BYLINE: By Kathleen Miller Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; News; National

LENGTH: 910 words


WASHINGTON -- In Arizona, the shooting death of a rancher blew the lid off
simmering anger over border security and helped solidify support for a tough new
immigration law. A similar eruption threatens in Virginia following the death of
a Catholic nun in a car accident involving a man in the country illegally and
accused of drunken driving.

The Benedictine Sisters of Virginia tried to discourage using the death of
Sister Denise Mosier as a "forum of the illegal immigration agenda" and pleaded
for a focus on "Christ's command to forgive."

"The sisters' mission is peace and love," said Corey Stewart, chairman of the
Prince William County Board of Supervisors. "My mission is law enforcement and
the protection of public safety."

Prince William County, about 25 miles southwest of Washington, D.C., stepped up
its immigration enforcement in 2007 amid explosive growth of its Hispanic and
immigrant populations. Under Stewart's leadership, the county implemented a
local policy requiring police to determine the immigration status of all people
arrested on suspicion of violating state or local laws.

Stewart rushed back into the immigration debate after the Aug. 1 accident,
firing off a statement that President Barack Obama, Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano and members of Congress "all have blood on their hands."

"What I'm hoping is that this situation, which because it involves a nun has
drawn the nation's attention, can serve as a catalyst for change and force the
administration to come clean about its catch-and-release policies," Stewart
said. He also says that the tragedy illustrates the need for Virginia to toughen
its drunken driving laws.

Even though Stewart says he's not running for higher office now, he is seen as a
possible lieutenant governor candidate in three years. "Regardless of what he
says, there is no question people would be interested in seeing him move up
within the Republican Party," said Stephen Farnsworth, an assistant
communications professor at George Mason University.

The day after the crash, Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II issued an
advisory opinion concluding that police have authority to inquire into the
immigration status of any person stopped or arrested, similar to the Arizona
immigration law that is under federal court review.

Arizona passed the law after rancher Robert Krentz was fatally shot while
checking water lines on his property near the Arizona-Mexico border. Authorities
believe a drug smuggler's scout is to blame.

The sisters at the Bristow, Va., monastery have buried Mosier, who would have
turned 67 on Aug. 26. Two other nuns injured in the crash, Charlotte Lange and
Connie Ruth Lupton, have undergone surgery and remain in critical condition.

The man charged in the case, Carlos Martinelly Montano, 23, of Bolivia, had two
prior drunken driving convictions, but was not required to serve his 30-day
sentence for the first one. A Prince William County judge required Montano to
serve only 20 days of his approximately one-year sentence on his second
conviction.

Local officials turned him over to federal immigration enforcement officers
after sentencing, but federal officers released him both times while he awaited
hearings.

The Prince William County prosecutor is promising to ask a grand jury to
consider charges that could put Montano in prison for 40 years.

Montano entered the U.S. illegally with his parents and siblings, said his uncle
Luis Ronald Montano. He attended American schools in New Jersey and Virginia
from third grade through high school. He is engaged and is the father of two
boys, ages 1 and 2, who were born in Manassas, Va.

For a few years, the family had asked Montano, a T-shirt screenprinter, to seek
professional help for his alcoholism. His family took away his cars, but he had
taken his mother's Subaru at the time of the crash.

Luis Ronald Montano said the family understands Carlos has broken the law
several times. They worry about the future of his two sons, they said. They
expect he will be deported but have hired lawyers in hopes of keeping him here
with minimum jail time.

"He's getting used to crucify all the illegal aliens in the United States," his
uncle said.

Nearly half of the 292,663 people deported or removed by ICE through July 22 of
this year were considered criminals. In 2009, 35 percent, or 136,343, of all
those deported were criminals, a reflection of ICE's focus on deporting people
with criminal records.

Removals of noncitizens who are not criminals are below what they were at the
same time last year, which has become fodder for criticism of the Obama
administration.

The law requires detention for immigrants who commit certain crimes. In other
cases, immigration officials have to make judgment calls on whether to release
someone.

In those cases, ICE considers the likelihood that the person will be a danger to
the community and that the person will appear at deportation hearings, said
David Leopold, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Stewart criticized ICE for releasing Montano, saying the county hands immigrants
over "on a silver platter" after they've been convicted of crimes "and still
they release them back into communities." He's asking Congress to subpoena
statistics from ICE on how many people who have committed crimes are released to
the community.

Leopold dismissed the criticism, saying no credible studies show that drunken
driving is a problem particular to immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday

Illegal immigrant's involvement in nun's death sparks anger in Virginia

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa and Kathleen Miller Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS; Breaking; National

LENGTH: 1124 words


In Arizona, the shooting death of a rancher blew the lid off simmering anger
over border security and helped solidify support for a tough new immigration
law. A similar eruption threatens in Virginia following the death of a Catholic
nun in a car accident involving a man in the country illegally and accused of
drunken driving.

The Benedictine Sisters of Virginia tried to discourage using the death of
Sister Denise Mosier as a "forum of the illegal immigration agenda" and pleaded
for a focus on "Christ's command to forgive."

"The sisters' mission is peace and love," said Corey Stewart, chairman of Prince
William County's Board of Supervisors. "My mission is law enforcement and the
protection of public safety."

Prince William County, about 25 miles southwest of Washington, D.C., stepped up
its immigration enforcement in 2007 amid explosive growth of its Hispanic and
immigrant populations. Under Stewart's leadership, the county implemented a
local policy requiring police to determine the immigration status of all people
arrested on suspicion of violating state or local laws.

Stewart rushed back into the immigration debate after the Aug. 1 accident,
firing off a statement that President Barack Obama, Homeland Security Secretary
Janet Napolitano and members of Congress "all have blood on their hands."

"What I'm hoping is that this situation, which because it involves a nun has
drawn the nation's attention, can serve as a catalyst for change and force the
administration to come clean about its catch-and-release policies," Stewart
said. He also says that the tragedy illustrates the need for Virginia to toughen
its drunken driving laws.

Even though Stewart says he's not running for higher office now, he is seen as a
possible lieutenant governor candidate in three years. "Regardless of what he
says, there is no question people would be interested in seeing him move up
within the Republican Party," said Stephen Farnsworth, an assistant
communications professor at George Mason University.

The day after the crash, Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli II issued an
advisory opinion concluding that police have authority to inquire into the
immigration status of any person stopped or arrested, similar to the Arizona
immigration law that is under federal court review.

Arizona passed the law after rancher Robert Krentz was fatally shot while
checking water lines on his property near the Arizona-Mexico border. Authorities
believe a scout for drug smugglers is to blame, although an investigation
continues.

The sisters at the Bristow, Va., monastery have buried Mosier, who would have
turned 67 on Aug. 26. Two other nuns injured in the crash, Charlotte Lange and
Connie Ruth Lupton, have undergone surgery and remain in critical condition.

The man charged in the case, Carlos A. Martinelly Montano, 23, of Bolivia, had
two prior drunken driving convictions, but was not required to serve any of his
30-day sentence for the first one. A Prince William County judge required
Montano to serve only 20 days of his approximately one-year sentence on his
second conviction.

Local officials turned him over to federal immigration enforcement officers
after the second incident and after sentencing, but federal officers released
him both times while he awaited hearings.

Montano is being held at the Prince William County Adult Detention Center, and
the county's prosecutor is promising to ask a grand jury to consider charges
that could put him in prison for 40 years.

Montano entered the U.S. illegally with his parents and siblings, his uncle Luis
Ronald Montano told The Associated Press. He attended American schools in New
Jersey and Virginia from third grade through high school. He is engaged and is
the father of two boys, ages 1 and 2, who were born in Manassas, Va.

For a few years, the family had asked Montano, a T-shirt screenprinter, to seek
professional help for his alcoholism. His family took away his cars, but he had
taken his mother's Subaru at the time of the crash.

Luis Ronald Montano said the family understands Carlos has broken the law
several times. They worry about the future of his two young sons. They expect he
will be deported, but they have hired lawyers in hopes of keeping him here with
minimum jail time.

"He's getting used to crucify all the illegal aliens in the United States," his
uncle said.

The nuns have forgiven Montano. Mercy and forgiveness, the nuns say on their
website, are not optional for Christians.

Nearly half of the 292,663 people deported or removed by ICE this year through
July 22 were considered criminals. That compares to 34 percent, or 136,343, in
all of last year, a reflection of ICE's focus on deporting people with criminal
records.

Removals of non-citizens who are not criminals are below what they were at the
same time last year, which has become fodder for criticism of the Obama
administration.

The law requires mandatory detention for immigrants who have committed certain
crimes. In other cases, immigration officials have to make judgment calls on
whether to release someone.

In those cases, ICE considers the likelihood that the person will be a danger to
the community and the likelihood the person will appear at deportation hearings,
said David Leopold, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Factors they consider are ties to the community, such as whether they have
family members or citizen children in the U.S.; length of time in the country;
how the person entered the country; other immigration violations; and a criminal
record. A judge's decision to relax a sentence also could be considered, Leopold
said.

Stewart criticized ICE for releasing Montano, saying the county hands immigrants
over "on a silver platter" after they've been convicted of crimes "and still
they release them back into communities." He's asking Congress to subpoena
statistics from ICE on how many people who have committed crimes are released to
the community.

But Leopold dismissed the criticism, saying that no credible studies show that
drunken driving is a problem particular to immigrants. "Frankly, drunk driving
is a national problem which we deal with in every community," he said.

The Benedictine Sisters operate several ministries, including providing
transitional housing for homeless women and their children and an adult literacy
project. None solely targets undocumented immigrants, Smith said in an e-mail,
and the services are available to everyone.

The Rule of Benedict and the Gospel of Jesus Christ "compels us to reach out to
the neighbor and the stranger, to the rich and the poor, to all who may come to
our door," Smith said. "I might add that Sister Denise was a model for us in
this reaching out and acceptance of diverse persons and cultures."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sister Denise Mosier, who was killed in an alleged drunk driving
incident involving an man in the country illegally.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday

Vote 2010 / Walker concerned about Arizona law

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 177 words


Wisconsin Republican gubernatorial candidate Scott Walker is taking a tough
stance against Arizona's sweeping new immigration law that has generated
protests across the country.

Walker, the executive of Milwaukee County, said in a statement that he has
serious concerns about the law empowering police to question and arrest anyone
they suspect is in the U.S. illegally.

"In America, we don't want our citizens getting pulled over because of how they
look," Walker said.

Walker and fellow Republican Mark Neumann have been spending most of the race to
date trying to define themselves as the more conservative choice.

Neumann wouldn't comment directly on the Arizona law, though he spoke in general
about immigration.

"I'm not an expert on it," he said of the law. "There are a lot of nuances to
that law, and I'd rather not comment on it."

Democratic candidate Tom Barrett, the mayor of Milwaukee, is concerned about the
law "violating the legitimate rights of American citizens and immigrants who are
here legally," his spokesman Phil Walzak said.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday

Mexico leader stirs partisan passions

BYLINE: By David Lightman McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 669 words


WASHINGTON -- Mexican President Felipe Calderon's appearance Thursday before a
joint session of Congress dramatically illustrated -- and possibly reinforced --
the partisan divide that has stymied progress on immigration legislation.

In his 40-minute address, Calderon sharply criticized Arizona's tough new
immigration law and the United States' refusal to ban assault weapons, which are
being used in the violent drug-gang shootouts in Mexico.

Afterward, Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said Cal-deron "crossed a line" by urging
changes in gun policy, and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who has become a
hard-liner on curbing illegal immigration, declared, "I've never heard of
another country's president coming here and criticizing the United States like
that."

Democrats were more supportive.

"I don't know what the protocol is, but I don't think he crossed any line," said
Rep. Ed Pastor, D-Ariz.

A Democratic plan, unveiled April 29, would create a path to citizenship for
most of the estimated 11 million people who are in this country illegally now
and would provide stronger security along the U.S.-Mexican border. The security
features are aimed at wooing Republicans, who've said that security is their top
priority.

However, with congressional elections less than six months away, there's been no
movement toward compromise, and the bill is expected to get little traction in
the current Congress.

Instead, it has become one of the most divisive, most partisan issues lawmakers
confront, and Calderon's visit to Washington, which included talks Wednesday
with President Barack Obama, has done little, if anything, to close the gap.

"There's such a wide divide, I'm not sure anything in his visit did anything to
close the divide," said Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo.

"It doesn't help," added Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah.

The schism was apparent Thursday, as so few Republicans showed up for Calderon's
address that four of the 7 1/2 Republican rows in front of Calderon, about 40
seats, were filled largely by student pages.

Calderon offered blistering comments about the Arizona law, which is slated to
go into effect July 29. It would permit law enforcement officers to check the
immigration status of people they stop for other reasons. Obama has said the
Justice Department will review the law.

"I strongly disagree with the recently adopted law in Arizona," the Mexican
president said, as most Democrats stood and cheered. He denounced it as "a
terrible idea using racial profiling as a basis for law enforcement."

Republicans reacted strongly.

"It's inappropriate for a head of state to question our laws, especially when
the state of Arizona only acted in the best interest of its citizens and with
the support of 70 percent of its people," said Hatch, a Senate Judiciary
Committee member.

Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the top Judiciary Republican, said Calderon was
simply wrong. "They cannot use racial profiling in Arizona," he said. "The
important thing is that we stop lawlessness at the border."

Calderon also stirred Republican ire with comments about assault weapons. Tough
1994 U.S. restrictions on 19 such weapons expired nearly six years ago, and
Calderon urged that they be reinstated. He maintained that there are more than
7,000 shops along the border where such weapons can be obtained.

"Today, these weapons are aimed by the criminals not only at rival gangs but
also at Mexican civilians and authorities," he said. "And with all due respect,
if you do not regulate the sale of these weapons in the right way, nothing
guarantees that criminals here in the United States, with access to the same
powerful weapons, will not decide to challenge American authority and
civilians."

Republicans weren't pleased with those remarks, either.

"I have great respect for President Calderon, but he really shouldn't turn this
into an opportunity to tell us we should change our laws," Cornyn said. He said
that the Second Amendment, which gives Americans the right to bear arms, wasn't
a subject for diplomatic discussions.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

Mankato roofer implicated in labor scheme that used immigrant workers as
'modern-day slaves,' feds say

BYLINE: Wire and staff reports

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 281 words


Federal prosecutors in Kansas City, Mo., said 12 people and three companies face
charges alleging they were involved in a scheme to lure illegal immigrants to
the U.S. to work as "modern-day slaves" in 14 states, including Minnesota.

Prosecutors said Wednesday that a federal grand jury in Kansas City had issued a
45-count indictment that included charges of labor racketeering, forced labor
trafficking and immigration violations.

The government alleges many of the workers were threatened with deportation and
forced to live in substandard apartments while working for inadequate pay.

The government said the conspiracy involved fraudulent labor-leasing contracts
in Minnesota, Missouri, Kansas, Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida,
Louisiana, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, South Carolina and Wyoming.

According to the federal indictment:

Defendant Abrorkhodja Askarkhodjaev owned and operated a labor-leasing company,
Giant Labor Solutions, in Kansas City. Through that company and two others he
was associated with, Askarkhodjaev secured fraudulent labor-leasing contracts
with clients in the hotel-resort, casino and construction industries.

Laborfix International, of Kansas City, and defendant Nodirbek Abdoollayev
allegedly were used to fulfill the labor-leasing contract Giant Labor Solutions
secured with Kato Roofing, which has offices in Mankato and Savage.

According to its Web site, Kato Roofing is owned and operated by Jeff Hagen and
Ron Hill, both Mankato natives.

The companies indicted are Giant Labor Solutions; Crystal Management Inc., of
Mission, Kan.; and Five Star Cleaning, of Overland Park, Kan.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2009



CORRECTION: Local: A headline Thursday should not have said that a Mankato
roofer was implicated in a labor scheme involving immigrant workers. In fact,
Kato Roofing was a client of a labor-leasing company that has been indicted in
relation with the scheme. But Kato Roofing has not been implicated or associated
in any way with the federal investigation, and Kato Roofing officials emphasize
that they have done nothing wrong. The Pioneer Press apologizes for the error.

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Focus on employers

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1697 words


Undocumented workers in the United States are a demand-side problem. Most
illegal immigrants come here because there is a demand for their cheap labor. If
we cut the demand, their motivation to come to the U.S. will decline.

It is illegal to hire undocumented workers; however, on May 12, 2008,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested more than 400 undocumented workers
in an agriprocessing plant in Postville, Iowa. No member of the plant's
management team was arrested. Since the raid, no employer has been arrested for
hiring undocumented workers anywhere in the country.

What should have happened at the same time the 400 undocumented workers were
loaded in the vans for their deportation hearing? The management team of the
plant should have been arrested and subjected to a "perp" walk. ICE needs to
focus on the employers, as well as the undocumented workers.

Larger employers are not the only ones who hire undocumented workers. Some small
contractors will prowl the big-box lumber stores to knowingly hire undocumented
workers. They should also be arrested and have their pictures posted on the
police department's web page, just as "johns" are arrested for soliciting
prostitutes.

Fred Grimm, Frederic, Wis.A new directionwith Ekstrand

I'd like to be your next state senator from North St. Paul, Maplewood and
Oakdale. I am a citizen candidate. My opponent, Chuck Wiger, is not. He's a
14-year-plus "career politician." I entered this race to be a voice for the
community, to do something instead of just complaining. I'm like a lot of you --
a wife, a mother, an active community member.

I didn't decide to run for glamour or position but am running because we need
some common sense in our decision-making at the Capitol. It's families like
yours and mine that are impacted by all the decisions being made by people who
are out of touch with you and me.

Just four short years ago, our state had a $2.2 billion surplus, but now we are
facing a potential $6 billion shortfall. This is a "projected shortfall." If we
elect new leaders into the Senate, we can turn this around.

Our government was designed to be run by the farmer, the store owner or the
teacher, who would go be a voice for their community and then go home to their
lives. This isn't the case when we get career politicians who never leave.

We need a new direction. We need to get back to the core responsibilities of
government as defined by our state Constitution. I'm running to remind people it
should still be "We the People," not "We the Government." If you agree, please
vote for me.

Tami Ekstrand, North St. Paul

The writer is a Republican in the District 55 Senate race.Homily didn't belong
here

How can you justify running a pastoral letter from the archbishop to the
Catholics of his Archdiocese on the opinion page ("To invest in the future,"
Oct. 19)?

I never thought I'd see the day when a major newspaper would let its opinion
page be used as a vehicle for a church leader to address his communicants, and I
hope I will never see it again. Why is such a privilege and favor granted for a
church function?

When the archbishop addressed "us" and asked for "your" support and prayers, he
certainly wasn't addressing me and other non-Catholic readers. This in-house
appeal should not have taken up any of the precious space of the opinion page.

In my newspaper, I would expect news on the closing of churches and opinions
about its significance, but surely not a comforting homily for somebody's flock.

Paul Heffron, ShoreviewNo partisan endorsements

There will be an unusual judicial seat on your ballot Nov. 2 if you live in the
Tenth Judicial District. (That district includes eight counties: Anoka, Chisago,
Isanti, Kanabec, Pine, Sherburne, Washington and Wright.)

Twenty-four candidates have filed for that judicial seat, including all of us,
the undersigned.

We have different experiences, strengths and views. But there is one thing we
agree on: Judicial races should not be political.

That is because judicial office is different from other kinds of public office.
Judges are required to follow the law, not their personal political views or a
political platform. Judges must listen to both sides in a dispute and must be
open-minded. The public must have confidence that the judge in their case will
apply the law fairly without regard to political party positions.

Five candidates in our race sought endorsement by a political party. We think
partisan endorsements in judicial races are wrong and should not be the basis
for casting a vote.

Helen Brosnahan, Cottage Grove Bridgid Dowdal, Mahtomedi

Mimi Hasselbalch, Oak Park Heights Sheridan Hawley, Hugo

Pete Marker, Marine on St. Croix Catherine McEnroe, Stillwater

Catherine McPherson, Ramsey Kelley Malone O'Neill, Woodbury

Mary E. Smits, Afton Richard Stebbins, Stillwater

Lindy Yokanovich, StillwaterA brave vote for Horner

Democrat Mark Dayton and Republican Tom Emmer obtained their parties'
endorsements for governor by running to the far corners of the public policy
ring and appealing to the most extreme wings of their parties. If either were
elected, he would have a hard time working with moderates in the middle to solve
Minnesota's serious fiscal and government reform problems.

Both Dayton and Emmer want the majority of middle-class Minnesotans to think
they need to sacrifice to make Minnesota a good place for our children and
grandchildren to live. Dayton promises to only tax the rich. Emmer promises to
tax no one. Both are spinning a fairy tale.

Dayton is right to ask the rich to pay a greater share than they now do, but his
math simply doesn't work. Worse yet, the Emmer-Pawlenty ostrich-like "no new
taxes ever under any circumstances" stand makes any kind of tax reform
impossible.

I urge Minnesotans to get out of their ideological corners and cast a brave vote
for Tom Horner. Minnesota needs and deserves the kind of public policy common
sense that only he, among the three candidates, can bring.

J. H. Fonkert, St. PaulSieben's priorities

I was absolutely appalled to read the Pioneer Press' endorsement of Republican
Karin Housley for the District 57 Senate seat (Oct. 14).

Her campaign literature copies Katie Sieben's priorities of job creation and
economic growth, responsible budgeting, efficient governance and working
together. Then, she states that Katie is to blame for Gov. Pawlenty's $6 billion
deficit. What is the woman thinking?

Katie has worked hard to get the Hastings Bridge replaced and the Wakota Bridge
completed. Education funding has been a top priority with her, and she is
responsible for obtaining state dollars for the International Baccalaureate
Program for the South St. Paul schools. She supported legislation for the Angel
Investor Tax Credit that is aiding small businesses, and she worked hard on the
capital investment/jobs bill that is creating more than 16,000 jobs statewide. I
don't think Katie is anti-business.

Katie Sieben gets my vote on Nov. 2, because she is a proven leader and does
know what our Senate district and the state need. Her hard work and talent are
what we need in our state Legislature.

Elizabeth Bell, St. Paul Park

The writer is a volunteer with the Sieben campaign.Bachmann deserves thanks

Attempts to label as hypocritical Michele Bachmann's requests for federal
stimulus funds for the Sixth Congressional District (after she initially opposed
the legislation) makes as much sense as benching Brett Favre this Sunday because
the Vikings used to oppose him when playing against Green Bay ("Bachmann
requested stimulus money," Oct. 19).

Once Favre was released by his former team and acquired by Minnesota it only
makes sense to use him -- he has value and is presently available.

Michele Bachmann fought for her constituents by requesting federal stimulus
money after the Democrat-controlled Congress forced it through over her
objection. Had she not requested the funds, the Sixth District would have been
the only congressional district in the state to not make a request. She would
have then been criticized for that.

While the request produced no funds for the Sixth District, Bachmann deserves
our thanks nonetheless.

Joseph A. Field, RamseyJobs for Washington County

In his letter of Oct. 18, Bill Pulkrabek asserts the Washington County Board is
listening to business owners and residents because it is "holding the line" on
property taxes. I think we can all agree that our property taxes are an
important aspect of our financial picture, but by focusing on only taxes,
Pulkrabek is missing the big picture.

Residents I have talked to have many concerns - chief among them the steep
decline in their property values and the scarcity of good jobs. Concentrating
solely on tax policy will not solve these serious problems.

It's time for District 2 to elect a County Commissioner who is listening to the
real issues being raised by business owners and residents. During my campaign I
have proposed a comprehensive program to attract, create and retain good jobs
for our region. Without participation in regional economic growth activities,
jobs will continue to be scarce and property value declines will not be
reversed.

I'm listening too, but I'm responding with a plan to address all of the concerns
I've heard.

Dean Johnston, Lake Elmo

The writer is a candidate for Washington County Commissioner - District 2Slawik
worked for jobs

A big thank you to Rep. Nora Slawik for working for good jobs and economic
development for our community. Nora worked closely with local officials and both
parties at the Capitol, passing legislation funding redevelopment of the Tanners
Lake and Oakdale Mall areas. These projects represent hundreds of "new quality"
jobs, in commercial, retail and residential development and a better economy for
our residents.

Nora also teamed with both parties, passing new tax credits that provide
incentives to spur business expansion. These credits increase research and
development jobs throughout Minnesota and are projected to bring thousands of
good jobs to our state.

Creating and keeping good jobs is the best way to bring Minnesota back from
recession and solve budget problems.

Stan Karwoski, Oakdale

The writer is a member of the Oakdale City Council.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday

Undocumented workers are culled in audit

BYLINE: By Julie Forster jforster@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 801 words


Nearly 50 workers in South St. Paul lost their jobs Wednesday as a result of
stepped-up workplace audits by the federal government trying to ferret out
undocumented workers.

The union that represents the workers, United Food and Commercial Workers Local
1189, is protesting the Department of Homeland Security's enforcement strategy,
saying the federal government is going after well-paid, taxpaying meatpackers,
janitors and factory workers instead of targeting criminals and "bad actor"
employers. Wednesday was the last day of work for those who process hides for
Twin City Hide who could not provide documentation of their legal status to
work.

Another union, Service Employees International Unions Local 26, which
represented 1,200 janitorial workers in the Twin Cities who lost their jobs
about a year ago as a result of audits carried out by the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agency, also spoke out against the audits.

According to the SEIU, more than 50 workers, or 40 percent of the work force at
Twin City Tanning, next to Twin City Hide, lost their jobs at the end of October
following the same type of audit. Those workers belonged to Workers United, a
union affiliated with SEIU.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency declined to comment on the audits
of South St. Paul businesses, saying in a statement that, "Inspections are one
of the most powerful tools the federal government has to ensure that businesses
are complying with U.S. employment laws."

Twin City Hide declined to answer questions but issued a statement saying the
company strives to comply with federal law and that it sympathizes with the
workers who have lost their jobs.

"Many of these workers were long-time loyal employees of our company who worked
hard for their families. We are saddened that they are now in this position.
We'd like nothing more than for Congress to reform our country's immigration
laws so that this kind of thing doesn't continue to happen," the company said.

Most of the workers who lost their jobs are Mexican nationals who at one time
had work visas that have since expired. The workers had jobs that paid $12 to
$14 per hour, health insurance and a 401(k) plan.

Don Seaquist, president of UFCW Local 1189, said enforcement without immigration
reform pushes undocumented workers deeper into the shadows, benefiting
unscrupulous off-the-books employers. The government is targeting the wrong
people, Seaquist contends: "The wrong employers and the wrong employees."

Union officials also contend the dismissed workers were performing jobs that no
other workers want. As a result, they said, the company is struggling to resume
production with temporary workers. The union says it represented 65 production
workers at Twin City Hide before the dismissals. In some cases, the workers have
been there as long as 10 years.

In the past three months, the Department of Homeland Security has audited three
companies with unionized workers, the unions say. Each of the employers,
according to the unions, pays more than the nonunion market average-wage and has
very few, if any, labor or tax violations.

Workplace audits in the past couple of years have represented a shift from the
Bush administration, which targeted workers in large-scale raids, said Laura
Danielson, head of the immigration practice at the law firm Fredrikson & Byron.

The consequences might end up being similar in that the worker either is going
to lose a job and be arrested or take off before being arrested. "In many ways
it has the same result, yet the focus is on employer compliance instead of the
focus on undocumented workers."

In her opinion, enforcement doesn't fix the main problem. "The problem is that
there aren't enough visas available that will help fill the gap for those
employers," that need essential workers for certain jobs that many Americans
will not take. "There are many industries like that around Minnesota."

In fiscal year 2010, the immigration agency conducted more than 2,200 audits
nationally, up from 1,400 in the previous fiscal year. It issued 240 fines
totaling $6.9 million in the 2010 period, up from 52 fines totaling about $1
million in 2009, according to the agency.

In the case of Twin City Hide, the employer received notice of the audit several
months ago. The union got a 30-day extension for workers to get their documents
in order. If they didn't have sufficient documentation showing legal status to
work in the U.S., they were terminated.

"There's a perception that employers that employ undocumented workers are taking
advantage of them," Danielson said. "I would say there probably are some
employers taking advantage of workers who are vulnerable. But the employers I
see are trying to do it right and they are just trying to fill jobs."

Julie Forster can be reached at 651-228-5189.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday

Illegal immigration: a civil, not criminal, violation

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 1258 words


In response to K. Marschall's critique ("Are we a nation of laws?" June 18) of
Reuben Rosario's article ("Cops know why 'sanctuary' is good policy," June 14),
it appears that Marschall is not aware that the function of local law
enforcement is to enforce violations of criminal statutes.

Illegal immigration status is a civil violation of law not subject to
incarceration. Deportation is the sole remedy. If Marschall is inclined to have
local law enforcement use traffic stops to ascertain violations of civil law,
then perhaps he would not object to his being questioned when stopped by police
regarding any pending IRS claims, civil suits, unpaid judgments, civil warrants
or any other civil actions.

After all, those are also violations of law. But really, that wasn't the point
that Marschall was trying to make.

J. Anthony Torres, West St. Paul

The writer is a criminal defense attorney.Blaming Bush

Among the first lessons of leadership: Don't make excuses and don't blame
others. President Barack Obama is failing that test as a leader.

In nearly every speech, he shamefully continues to blame the previous
administration for something. Obama knew what he was inheriting when he ran for
president. If he wasn't willing to accept all of the problems that come with the
office, he shouldn't have run. That's what leadership brings.

Almost daily, congressional Democrats and pundits continue to criticize the Bush
administration for creating a large deficit. Yet Democrats controlled Congress
during the first bailout. If they didn't agree with the president, they could
have opposed his requests. There was a time when congressional Democrats
complained that deficits were bad. Yet, under their leadership, they have now
nearly tripled it. Our last Democratic president reduced the deficit -- together
with a Republican Congress.

Perhaps history will repeat itself come 2010.

Kirby Beck, Coon RapidsCentral Corridorand neighbors' rights

We are members of the Ramsey Chapter of MICAH, the Metropolitan Interfaith
Council on Affordable Housing. We are very concerned about issues of racial and
economic justice in the Central Corridor.

There are some serious concerns with light rail. The Title VI complaint filed by
Aurora/St. Anthony Neighborhood Development Corp. and others addresses them
("Don't understate Central Corridor impacts -- or the link to Rondo," June 17).

It's Jan. 15; wind chill is -5. A traveler boards the train at the airport and
gets into downtown in warmth and comfort. Meanwhile, a mother with a child and
two bags of groceries standing at Victoria Street and University Avenue has two
options, an extra 20 minutes in the cold or a half-mile walk.

A common good -- free street parking -- is being taken from the community and
businesses. The Met Council proposes a marketing program in response to
business' concerns about parking, snow removal, narrowed sidewalks and
restricted access.

A homeowner is told she will benefit because her home value goes up. But that
only helps if she is willing to sell, to lose her neighborhood, her neighbors.
For someone who survived the construction of I-94, the only way she benefits is
if she moves out and someone richer moves in -- and that's the essence of the
complaint, the core of gentrification.

The University of Minnesota and Minnesota Public Radio flexed their muscle and
got betterments from the Met Council. This complaint is one of the few ways for
the neighbors to exercise their strength. We support their right to do so.

Ann Jalonen and Lynnanne Warren, St. Paul Global warming and human activity

I never cease to be amazed at the number of people who cannot accept that
significant global warming is caused by human activity ("Cost of 'cap and
trade,' " June 18).

R.D. Carlton states that "there is growing scientific evidence that man's
activities have had and will have virtually no effect on the Earth's climate
changes."

There are two sources of heat. Natural changes in the Earth's temperature, which
occurred over a period of thousands of years, and man-made temperature changes
over the last 100 years.

An easy way to understand the two different sources of global warming is to
consider lake pollution. There is natural lake pollution: fish and excrement,
fish and bird dead bodies and such insect bodies as mayflies. Also, rain washes
some soil into the lake.

We now also have man-made lake pollution: phosphates from lawns, petroleum
products from parking lots and highways, salt from roads, soil from unprotected
shorelines.

How many scientific studies will be necessary to convince people that lake
pollution is a problem?

Shall we now say that since there is natural pollution in our lakes, there is
nothing we can do about lake pollution and it will cost a lot of money and,
therefore, we should do nothing about it? I think not.

Sylvester H. Bendel, St. Paul

The writer is a chemist. Fighting fire with a hammer

An interesting quote by Lt. Gen. Stanley McChrystal, U.S. commander in
Afghanistan, appeared in the latest Newsweek: "Since 9/11, I have watched as
America tried to put out this fire with a hammer, and it doesn't work."

The Bush administration made three critical errors in response to the 9/11
outrage: 1. Interpreting a terrorist criminal act as an act of war. 2.
Extracting defeat in Iraq from the jaws of victory in Afghanistan. 3. Pointing
to Islam as our enemy.

Joe Danko, North St. PaulHelp for the vulnerable

Our secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, is rightly concerned about many
nations, including ours, that traffic in human beings ("Build on progress in the
fight against human trafficking," June 18).

She states that, "The destructive effects of trafficking have an impact on all
of us. Trafficking weakens legitimate economies, breaks up families, fuels
violence, threatens public health and safety and shreds the social fabric that
is necessary for progress. It undermines our long-term efforts to promote peace
and prosperity worldwide. And it is an affront to our values and our commitment
to human rights."

Right on, Hillary. Now, how about the same supportive statement against the
killing of the unborn, who are much more vulnerable than those you have
mentioned.

R. J. Houck, RosevilleWhat's with the speedy Prius?

I understand that everyone wants to save fuel and go green -- even the state of
Minnesota -- but I had to stop and think June 18 as I was cruising north out of
St. Paul on I-35E.

Admittedly, I was traveling 65 mph, which was a little over the speed limit. But
as I looked in my mirror, there was a car rapidly gaining on me, which then
changed lanes and zipped by. The car?

A state of Minnesota Prius, with a big decal on the side that said "Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources."

What I want to know: Is this an example of hypocrisy?

Steve Olson, St. PaulLeaving us to face the music

Once again, our illustrious "No New Taxes" governor has managed to ignore our
current budget problems and is more willing to let the state suffer so he can
stand by his "NNT" pledge.

His unallotment ax has done nothing but push our budget problems to the future
and caused major pain for our most vulnerable citizens.

The June 18 Pioneer Press ("Pawlenty's budget plan doesn't fly with DFLers")
stated that there is already a projected budget deficit for the next budget
cycle of $4-7 billion.

Gov. Tim Pawlenty's approach? Cut, shift, and delay. What is he worried about?
He's not running for re-election, so while we are left to face the music, he
will be playing in a different band. Don't let the door hit you on the way out.

Tom McMahon, Maplewood

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday

4 ex-cons indicted in Minneapolis on immigration violations

BYLINE: By Alex Ebert aebert@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 304 words


Four Mexican men with previous felony convictions were indicted this week in
U.S. District Court in Minneapolis for allegedly re-entering the United States
after being deported.

Two of the men lived in Minnesota, and all were found through Immigration and
Customs Enforcement initiatives, which locate criminal illegal immigrants inside
and outside the U.S. prison system. If found guilty, the four men all face up to
20 years in prison.

According to the U.S. Department of Justice, Jose Edel Godinez-Valdovinos, 29,
of Fridley, was found Oct. 15. He was deported in 2003 after he was convicted of
delivering methamphetamine in Washington state.

Daniel Pizana-Reyna, 29, of Chaska, was found Oct. 22, federal prosecutors said.
He was deported in 2001 after being convicted of third-degree criminal sexual
conduct in Minnesota.

Hector Campos-Arizpe, 32, whose last address is unknown, was found March 6, the
prosecutors said. He was deported in 2005 after an aggravated criminal sexual
conduct conviction in Illinois.

Oscar Omar Perez-Torres, 36, whose last address is unknown, was found Oct. 22,
prosecutors said.

He had been deported after an illegal entry conviction in Minnesota and a drug
conviction in Nebraska.

According to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, non-U.S. citizens make up almost 27
percent of the inmate population in U.S. federal prisons. Almost 18 percent of
federal prison inmates are Mexican citizens.

"Criminal illegal aliens who re-enter the United States after deportation will
face prosecution for the flagrant disregard of our immigration laws," said Scott
Baniecke, field office director for the ICE Office of Detention and Removal in
Bloomington, according to a news release.

ICE arrested nearly 16,000 criminal illegal immigrants nationwide and deported
about 136,000 illegal immigrants in fiscal year 2009.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Politics and immigration

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 2396 words


It sure didn't take Mayor Coleman long to wring whatever publicity he could from
the recent decision by Arizona lawmakers in regard to the law on illegal
immigration ("Coleman: No city travel to Arizona," April 29).

He got his name in the paper by banning city-funded travel to Arizona. What are
the chances of any travel to that state by city officials?

He mentions his grandmother and couldn't imagine her having to face anti-Irish
laws. Yet, I am pretty sure his ancestors entered this country, like mine, in a
legal manner.

Mr. Mayor, this is not an anti-Hispanic law. It is an anti-illegal immigrant
law. What part of illegal do you not understand? And if you are OK with illegal
immigration, where do you draw the line? Is it then acceptable for me to
illegally obtain anything I want as long as I cause no harm?

It is time to stop playing politics and look at the big picture. Illegal
immigration is costing this country millions. It affects our schools, our health
care and our economy in general. Come one, come all -- but come legally, and you
will have nothing to fear.

Debra Tressler, St. PaulA different philosophy

"His murder still haunts, still puzzles, still hurts" (April 25) about the
murder of Tony Basta and the murderer Dale Stewart, brought back memories of my
first post-college job, that of being a case manager at the St. Cloud prison
more than 40 years ago.

I was a young, energetic worker who attempted to see the potential for
rehabilitation in every case I managed. I recommended parole for murderers after
short periods of incarceration and hoped they would become successful. Some did
and some didn't.

As I have aged, I have developed a different philosophy for murderers. You take
a life, and you remain incarcerated for the remainder of your life no matter
what your potential, IQ or parole plan is. Life without parole now seems logical
to me for these cases.

Jim Gerdes, Sturgeon Lake Closing programs

I am disappointed in the Pioneer Press for its total lack of concern about the
Wilder Foundation's closing of treatment programs for children in your city and
other important programs.

Programs very quietly closed their doors on April 1 without so much as a whimper
from you or a mention honoring the contributions they made over the years. This
foundation was and is a major part of your city for over a century and the loss
of these programs, along with 260 employees, should have been a major story, yet
you treated it like a corner gas station closing down.

The main shame rests with the Wilder board, but there is no excuse for this
newspaper to simply let it go as quietly as you did.

God bless the staff who kept the services going to the last hours.

Mark Gilstad, North St. PaulAll things to all people

The lady hit the nail on the head ("Corruption of purpose," April 28). Our
schools have increasingly become so much more than the providers of basic and
higher education of our children. They, as with our government, are trying to be
all things to all people. In the past years, per-pupil spending has quadrupled
while student performance on reading, math, history and science has sadly
remained virtually the same. The achievement gap between white and minority
students has not improved.

The hue and cry for more money is a canard that has not worked. Perhaps by
moving back to the basics with better educational methods and some student
discipline, we can succeed with what we are trying to achieve.

Methods that prove to work can be duplicated in other schools. The one thing we
can't seem to duplicate is motivated families. It appears that, right now, the
main thing we know about improving schools is that we really don't know very
much.

John R. Penas, WoodburyParking problems

"Boosters say city parking a hassle" (April 28) is right on and, to downtown's
detriment, parking problems will get worse.

As planned, light-rail transit on Cedar and Fourth Streets will remove 131
high-use metered parking spaces (and $300,000 to $400,000 annually from city
coffers) vs. 56 meters if LRT had stayed on Jackson Street. A recent development
proposal will remove 11 metered spaces on Mears Park's north side (and $30,000
to $35,000 annually from city coffers).

Unnecessarily lost metered parking spaces and planned traffic lane
reconfigurations will increase traffic congestion and annually force hundreds,
if not thousands, of additional miles of "circling" by people in vehicles
looking for on-street parking. Mass transit is an option but, until leadership
uses it and does something about common bus misbehavior, others cannot be
expected to do so.

Also, a long-term problem has been that, each business day, hundreds of metered
parking spaces are used for free by those with handicap tags and those
displaying government "official business" placards. Those with true physical
challenges desire priority parking over a free spot, and for-pay blue meters
near every corner and near every major building entrance, when possible, would
provide this. As for those on "official business," they can pay their way or
park in a city-owned ramp for free.

Lastly, the little stickers on parking meters that read, "Meters Enforced until
4:30," when nearby is a sign that says, "No Parking 4 to 6," should be removed.

Better yet, these "No Parking" signs should be removed altogether, considering
that downtown St. Paul's rush hours lasts all of 36 minutes!

Bill Hosko, St. PaulAccountability at school

Next to being a parent, teaching is the hardest, most unappreciated job out
there. I praise anyone who is an educator; it is an enormous responsibility.
However, it is a choice. A choice for which there should be accountability and,
if needed, change and reform.

To quote Mr. Education Minnesota, Tom Dooher, "Changes aren't necessarily
reforms. 'To reform' is to improve." To reform is, indeed, to improve, but it is
improvement through change.

Dooher took exception in "Education Minnesota stands up for what actually works
in the classroom" (April 29). The only problem was that it contained zero
examples of what does actually work in the classroom. All we got is the usual
"we-know-education-and-you're-a-business-person lecture," along with
research-led proposals: proposals that call for smaller class sizes (short for
we want more money), longer school days (more money), targeted social services
for students and families (yep, more money) and more outreach to involve parents
in their children's education (sorry I'm out of money, and besides, this is not
your problem -- it is a societal, parenting problem that no one dares discuss,
for fear of being called some kind of name or racist).

Evidently, you didn't appreciate David Olson, president of the Minnesota Chamber
of Commerce, making teachers actually accountable for their role in Minnesota's
achievement gap ("For kids' sake, teacher's union can't be arbiter of school
reform," April 23). You go on to insinuate that, if teachers are responsible for
this gap, then it must make sense that "business people should not run
businesses because so many of them are failing."

Bravo, Mr. Dooher, you are correct. Business people are held accountable every
day (without the aid of a union taking money for protection), because if they
aren't preparing/creating/leading/producing, they and/or their business are out
on their ear. They'll find someone else, or the business will fail.

What are you so afraid of?

Todd Muntifering, St. PaulMore likely to carry ID

The author of "IDs and hardship" (April 29) states a blatant untruth when she
says, "People with disabilities, seniors and low-income voters are even less
likely to have these forms of identification" (IDs).

The fact is that people in these categories actually may be more likely to carry
identification on a daily basis in the form of either a state-issued or a
provider-issued ID to prove eligibility for community-supported services, be it
a ride or any other entitled service.

Either the author is grossly misinformed or she intentionally meant to obfuscate
the issue. I found the letter very condescending and disrespectful to people in
the disability community.

Art Thell, Inver Grove Heights

The writer is a retired provider operations manager with Metro Mobility.The kick
we need

The lefties love to hate conservative women.

It seems that the so-called "progressives" aren't as progressive as they thought
they were. A true progressive would welcome Michele Bachmann's success in
connecting to families around the country with her common-sense conservatism on
fiscal responsibility but take issue on their differing opinions. However, it
appears that either they can't take issue, or find it easier not to.

Bachmann truly stands for the working man and fights for our right to be as
successful as we want in this country. In a time of handouts and bailouts,
America needs a kick in the behind to quit our dependency on the federal
government. Dependency leads to complacency and the end of our ingenuity. I
think Michele is just the kick this country needs.

Jake Stebbing, WoodburyGrandstanding?

As you know, Arizona recently passed a law making it easier for its law
enforcement officers to enforce already-existing federal immigration laws.

In response to this, St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman ordered city departments to
boycott travel to Arizona ("Coleman: No city travel to Arizona," April 29).

This begs the question: How much money have the taxpayers of St. Paul spent on
trips to Arizona, or any other state for that matter, during Coleman's term as
mayor? As a former resident of St. Paul who saw his property taxes rise every
year under Colman's tenure, I would be very interested in the answer to this
question.

Is an investigation needed, or was this just political grandstanding?

Thank you, Mayor Coleman, for calling attention to this matter in such difficult
economic times.

J. Pedro, RosevilleArlington studentscan handle challenges

Amazing, compassionate, bright and resilient. Those are the first words that
come to mind when I think of the students of the Arlington High School BioSmart
program. I watched when they spoke to the board of education. One of the
students quoted Martin Luther King; he would have been proud to see how they
stood up for what was right in a non-violent, dignified manner.

The students worked through the system but learned a hard lesson: Sometimes,
even if your cause is just, you might not succeed. I hope this does not stop
them. If Arlington students bring forward what they have learned in this fight,
they can be there to support others who find themselves in similar situations.

They need to remember that no one can take away what they learned at Arlington.
They have proven to the business partners, community and everyone with whom they
come in contact that they will succeed. They have been the ambassadors for their
community. Anyone who has taken the time to be involved with them would
recognize what they have accomplished. They are second to none.

I will never forget the stories I have heard about them, nor will any of the
people whose lives they have touched. I hope they continue to reach out for new
experiences; with each, they will be both students and teachers.

They have a giant challenge ahead of them. They have already shown they can
handle challenges, because most of them have already overcome more than they
should have to in their short lives.

If they bring their energy to their new schools, they will make them better.
They will need each other for support but, watching them, you know they will do
that.

As my wife always tells our children: Be kind, be happy and make the world a
better place. They have already started down that road. As a community, we
should wish them good luck and give them any support we can.

Gregg Mensing, RosevilleCharter legislation:next session

The April 29 editorial ("Charter-school law needs a few fixes -- this year"),
supporting legislation that would change the way charter schools can finance new
buildings, left out one important fact: Last year, the Legislature made
significant changes that allow charter schools to renovate, purchase or
construct a new school building provided certain conditions are met.

Those conditions include clear requirements that schools have been operating for
a minimum of five consecutive years if they want to purchase a building (eight
years if they want to build a new school), that they have verifiable cash
reserves in their general fund and can show a long-range plan that includes
sustainable enrollment projections and a demonstrable need for constructing a
new school facility, among others. In other words, there is already a means for
charters to own an existing facility or to construct a new one, if they can
demonstrate the capacity to maintain a sustainable operation and sufficient
future need. To enact new legislation this year would be redundant.

The bill being forwarded by the Senate goes much further than current law and
has several provisions that need careful consideration before they are enacted.
Members of the charter school community point to one provision that requires
charter schools seeking lease aid to provide "a copy of the lessor's annual
audit or annual report, whichever applies." Their belief is that this could
actually have the effect of reducing the pool of available firms willing to rent
to charter schools since the information is proprietary for private companies
and unlikely to be shared. The Senate bill would also require schools seeking
bonding authority to show greater academic growth than the state average, which
charter school advocates contend would discriminate against urban schools.
Additionally, they also believe a provision that would make most charter school
leases illegal, except with the approval of the commissioner of education, opens
the approval process up to a subjective political decision.

Charter schools and other public school options are here to stay, and it's in
all of our best interest to help them succeed. Providing public bonding
authority is an idea worthy of consideration. However, a thoughtful analysis of
the potential benefits and consequences, as well as the full participation of
the charter school community is warranted before making drastic changes to
current law.

The next legislative session provides ample time for a more careful analysis.

Rep. Mindy Greiling

The writer is chair of the House K-12 Education Finance Division.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday

William McKenzie: Slow the immigration flow with better schools in Mexico

BYLINE: By William McKenzie

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 665 words


I don't know whether the flow of illegal immigrants is bad in enough places to
justify President Barack Obama's decision to send more National Guardsmen to the
border. But I do know that if Mexico doesn't better educate its students, all
the Guardsmen in America won't stop it.

The reality is Mexico is locked in a vicious loop. Miryam Hazan of the Migration
Policy Institute put her finger on this when she told a recent conference at
Southern Methodist University's John Tower Center that Mexico has a "low-wage
path to development."

In other words, it has banked on lower-skill jobs to keep its economy going. Not
a smart approach, to say the least, in today's world. Not when you look at
emerging nations like India and China, which are progressing by producing more
engineers and scientists.

Mexico hasn't taken that path, and, therefore, it has a hard time retaining its
people. Not only has Mexico lost low-wage workers seeking better jobs to the
north, it can't provide enough jobs for its educated workers.

Interestingly, Hazan and nearly every panelist at the SMU forum pointed to a
better education system as the way for Mexico to break free. That can't happen
overnight, but Mexico -- and the United States -- can take steps now to move
ahead.

For starters, investing in schools along the border can help. Mexican President
Felipe Calderon went to Ciudad Juarez recently to announce his government will
finance more schools in the violence-riddled border city.

That's exactly right. People I've talked to say Juarez has long lacked
sufficient schools. In fact, about 70,000 Juarez youths 14 to 19 years old don't
go to school, Zulma Mendez reports from the University of Texas at El Paso.

Call me naive, but why couldn't U.S. foreign aid help Mexico here? We certainly
have a national interest in seeing that Mexican children have enough schools,
particularly at the high school level. Without that access at home, they'll end
up searching for better jobs here or turning to the drug crimes that could spill
over into our streets.

Yes, many middle-class Mexican families send their kids to high school, but
Juarez loses far too many low-income students to the drug gangs because they
lack a reasonable alternative.

So here's a second area that needs attention: Mexico needs better-prepared
teachers. Some get their jobs because unions hand them out, not because these
teachers know their subjects.

This is mostly Mexico's responsibility, starting with its leaders challenging
the education unions as Obama has done here. But there's also a role for U.S.
educators.

Why can't our education department work with Mexican leaders to send teams of
U.S. educators to consult with Mexican peers about best practices?

We have delighted in sending Peace Corps volunteers around the world. And young
American entrepreneurs and financial experts made their way to Eastern Europe
after communism's fall. Why not do the same in Mexico, only this time with
educators talking to educators?

There's likewise a role for the foundation world and religious institutions. A
few Dallas churches heard an update Sunday about the Juarez public school they
support financially. There's plenty of room for more nonprofits to get involved,
including financing scholarships for families who can't afford to send their
children to school.

This may sound pie-in-the-sky, but we have an interest in Mexico's schools
advancing. And not just for immigration reasons.

School superintendents in any U.S. state with significant numbers of Mexican
immigrants will describe the challenge of advancing children who land here
behind not only in English but also struggling to learn such subjects as math in
their native Spanish.

There are multiple reasons for Americans to worry about Mexico's schools. A
low-wage path to development benefits neither side of the border.

William McKenzie is an editorial columnist for The Dallas Morning News,
Communications Center, Dallas, Texas 75265. His e-mail address is
wmckenzie@dallasnews.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday

Emotions flare in Arizona Immigration protesters out in force as sheriff
conducts raids

BYLINE: By Anna Gorman and Nicholas Riccardi Los Angeles Times

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 663 words


PHOENIX -- Hundreds of marchers protesting Arizona's hard-line stance against
illegal immigration took to the streets Thursday, even as the local sheriff
launched raids to arrest illegal migrants -- vivid signs that the court ruling
stopping most of a controversial state law will not quell the furious debate
over immigration here.

And as expected, the state swiftly appealed the ruling by U.S. District Judge
Susan Bolton, who on Wednesday temporarily halted key parts of the law one day
before they were to take effect.

The protesters began marching well before dawn, fanning out across the city,
staging acts of civil disobedience and arguing that Arizona remains inhospitable
to immigrants despite the court ruling. Dozens of protesters were arrested.

"It's not over yet," said Vanessa Bustos, 24, of Phoenix, who chained herself to
five other activists, blocking the door to the Maricopa County jail. "There are
other bills being enacted against the Latino community."

Showing that Arizona can take strong steps against illegal immigrants despite
the ruling, Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio launched his 17th sweep Thursday,
in which his deputies and "posse" volunteers stop people for sometimes minor
violations, such as jaywalking, and then check their immigration status.

Arpaio has said the temporary injunction against the law, SB 1070, doesn't stop
him from driving illegal immigrants from the state.

"Nothing is going to deter this sheriff and my office, including rulings by the
federal judge," Arpaio told reporters at a midday news conference. "It's going
to be business as usual."

Since Wednesday's ruling, Bolton has received thousands of phone calls and
e-mails. Some were positive, but others were "from people venting and who have
expressed their displeasure in a perverted way," said David Gonzales, the U.S.
Marshal for Arizona.

Gonzales said his agents are taking some of the threats to Bolton seriously. He
wouldn't say how many there were or whether any threats were coming from
recognized hate groups. He refused to discuss any extra security measures.

In the state's appeal, Gov. Jan Brewer asked the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals to overturn the temporary injunction as soon as possible. Oral arguments
could occur in September.

"We are a nation of laws and we believe they need to be enforced," Brewer said
in a statement. "If the federal government wants to be in charge of illegal
immigration and they want no help from states, it then needs to do its job."

Technically, SB 1070 took effect Thursday, but Bolton's ruling -- issued after
the Obama administration sued and contended the law interfered with federal
immigration enforcement -- barred most of its provisions until a trial on the
bill's constitutionality. The key provisions would have required police to
determine the status of people they stop and also suspect are in the country
illegally. It also would have made it a state crime to lack immigration
documents.

Brewer signed the bill April 23, arguing it was needed to protect the state from
drug violence seeping across the border from Mexico.

Some of the measure's supporters argued that those provisions halted by Bolton
would not have changed much on the ground here. Everyone booked into the jails
in the state's most populous counties has their status checked. Police officers
can already ask anyone they choose about their immigration status.

Mark Spencer, president of the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, a police
union that is a strong backer of the law, said SB 1070 merely would have
required other agencies to employ procedures widely used in Phoenix.

"We were test-driving SB 1070" in Phoenix, Spencer said. "Now we're going to
take it on a long-term road trip."

The law makes "attrition through enforcement" Arizona's official policy, meaning
the state will take whatever legal steps it can to make life unpleasant for
illegal immigrants and persuade them to leave.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday

Senators' push to end 'birth tourism' gains little steam

BYLINE: By Sandhya Somashekhar Washington Post

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 791 words


Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., says America faces a new and growing foreign
threat: illegal immigrants and tourists who come to here for the express purpose
of giving birth so their children obtain citizenship.

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., and other top Republicans quickly jumped on the issue
and called for hearings.

The senators said their concerns arose from recent reports of a burgeoning
"birth tourism" industry, which helps expectant mothers abroad travel to the
United States to deliver their babies. They also said that birthright
citizenship, which is granted by the 14th Amendment of the Constitution, could
provide an incentive for people to enter the country illegally.

The sudden support cheered anti-immigration hard-liners who have been pushing to
do away with birthright citizenship for years, but the senators face a problem:
few others want to take up the issue and it is almost assuredly going nowhere.

Even some of the most vocal critics of the country's permissive immigration laws
are skeptical of the efforts, which they say are particularly emotionally
charged because they affect children and families.

"We don't think that it is worth the political capital to initiate a debate on
this issue," said Jon Feere, legal policy analyst for the Center for Immigration
Studies, a think tank that backs stricter immigration policies.

"The energy spent on ending birthright citizenship might be better spent
reducing illegal immigration through a commitment to immigration law enforcement
generally. If illegal immigration is ended, the problem of birthright
citizenship for children of illegal aliens disappears," Feere said.

Nevertheless, raising the issue could prove beneficial to Graham and McCain,
both of whom have rocky relationships with many of the conservatives whose
support they'll need to stay in office.

Graham has fallen out of favor with many in his party for working with Democrats
on a host of issues, including immigration. He was just one of five Republicans
to vote last week to confirm

McCain's concern is more immediate -- he faces voters in a primary later this
month and is on the ballot again in November.

"My organization would say there should be a change on the horizon, but not in
the way Lindsey Graham is talking about it," said Rosemary Jenks, director of
governmental relations for the nonprofit NumbersUSA, the leading group opposed
to birthright citizenship. "I do think it is political ... What we need is a
serious discussion of the actual issues, not a lot of political ploys. "

Bills related to birthright citizenship have been introduced in Congress every
year since the 1990s, experts say. They almost never gain traction and rarely
attract high-profile supporters such as Graham and McCain.

On Fox News late last month, Graham said he might propose a constitutional
amendment because birthright citizenship has become a magnet for illegal
immigration. "To have a child in America, they cross the border, go to the
emergency room, have a child and that child is automatically an American
citizen," he told host Greta Van Susteren. "That shouldn't be the case. That
attracts people here for all the wrong reasons."

Amending the Constitution is a difficult task. Some who support curbing
birthright citizenship argue that the 14th Amendment has been misinterpreted and
that the issue could be dealt with more simply by passing a law or through the
courts.

Groups that study immigration trends say the number of "birth tourists" to the
United States is relatively small, perhaps a few thousand a year. The number of
U.S. citizens born to illegal immigrant parents is believed to be much higher;
there were about 4 million such children living in the United States in 2008,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

"This is a symptom of the larger problem of illegal immigration in this
country," Jenks said. "It is an important issue. This is part of our identity as
a nation and we're the only industrialized country that has not changed its
birthright citizenship laws."

More troubling to some is that illegal immigrants often further root themselves
in U.S. society by having American children, their plight often winning the
sympathy of the public.

Immigrant rights advocates say birthright citizenship is beneficial to society
because it promotes assimilation, and that revoking that right could create
generations of residents who reside in the country illegally.

"It's puzzling that they would propose this, because it would add to the
undocumented population," said Bill Hing, a professor at the University of San
Francisco School of Law who has represented undocumented immigrants. "I really
think they lose sight of who these children are and what they become. ... They
very quickly become assimilated."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday

Other voices: Mexico plays a new tune on border security

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 420 words


For too long, the official attitude south of the border toward illegal
immigration has been that this is America's problem, not Mexico's.

As President Felipe Calderon and his predecessors have noted, Mexicans have a
right under their constitution to travel where they please, including across the
U.S. border to look for work. If Americans have a problem with that, don't come
crying to Mexico.

It's time for a new approach, Mexican Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan told the Dallas
Morning News last week. Mexico's best interests aren't always served by playing
cheerleader for an estimated 5 million Mexican illegal immigrants here,
especially when their presence helps harden attitudes in Congress toward
comprehensive immigration reform, which Mexico supports.

"Regardless of what happens on this side of the border, Mexico has got to be
able to do two things it has either been unable or unwilling to do in the past,"
he said. First, it must boost economic growth and job creation "to anchor those
women and men with well-paying jobs in Mexico." Second, it must "ensure that
every single Mexican that crosses the border into the United States does so with
papers, through a designated port of entry, and legally."

These are powerful words that U.S. legislators need to hear -- provided that
action follows. Sustaining the economic conditions and high growth rates to
anchor Mexican citizens at home will be difficult. But Sarukhan says the second
part -- border enforcement -- can be done under existing law.

Until now, Mexican authorities have not enforced laws requiring citizens to use
only legal ports of entry and departure. The consequences of lax enforcement are
evident. At $3,000 to $5,000 a person, smuggling rings reap big profits, and
drug cartels have begun a violent campaign to seize control of the business.
Criminality feeds on itself, and Mexico pays an ever-steeper social price.

For decades, Sarukhan noted, Mexican deportees have been loaded into buses and
released at nearby Mexican border towns, where they congregated by the thousands
without jobs or money to return home. Their only choice was to head back north.
Now, Mexico is working with the U.S. to repatriate immigrants directly to their
home states, dramatically reducing their likelihood of becoming repeat offenders
or falling victim to border criminal organizations.

These are smart steps politically. And Mexico can only benefit from a more
aggressive approach to address the causes of border criminality at their source.

-- The Dallas Morning News

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              April 6, 2009 Monday

Alleged Nazi guard tries again to avoid deportation

BYLINE: By M.R. Kropko Associated Pres

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; National

LENGTH: 450 words


CLEVELAND -- The deportation of alleged Nazi death camp guard John Demjanjuk
should be blocked because forcing the frail 89-year-old to go to Germany would
amount to torture, his attorney said in a court filing today.

John Broadley, the attorney for the retired auto worker from Seven Hills in
suburban Cleveland, asked the Board of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church, Va.,
to block his client's deportation and reopen a U.S. case that has ordered
Demjanjuk deported.

Germany had wanted Demjanjuk in the country Monday. But a U.S. immigration judge
Friday agreed to temporarily halt his removal from the United States, then
revoked that decision Monday. The stay expires Wednesday.

Demjanjuk is accused in a German arrest warrant of 29,000 counts of acting as an
accessory to murder at the Sobibor death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland in 1943.
He has denied involvement in any deaths.

The Ukrainian-born Demjanjuk came to the United States after World War II as a
refugee.

In Germany, Demjanjuk would have a chance to respond to the allegations before a
judge in Munich. German prosecutors are making their case based largely on
evidence used in the United States to strip Demjanjuk of his citizenship in
2002.

In a three-page signed statement last week, Demjanjuk asked for asylum in the
U.S. and said deporting him "will expose me to severe physical and mental pain
that clearly amount to torture under any reasonable definition of the term."

He said he suffers severe spinal, hip and leg pain and has a bone marrow
disorder, kidney disease, anemia, kidney stones, arthritis, gout and spinal
deterioration.

Broadley said a government physician examined Demjanjuk on Thursday to determine
his ability to travel and there was "dramatic evidence" of his back pain.
Broadley submitted a portion of the exam videotape to the government on Friday
as part of his argument against deportation.

The Justice Department responded by saying Demjanjuk's medical capacity to stand
trial abroad "is, of course, irrelevant in a removal proceeding."

Demjanjuk first gained U.S. citizenship in 1958. But his citizenship was revoked
in 1981 when the Justice Department alleged he had served the Nazis as the
notorious Nazi guard "Ivan the Terrible" in Poland at the Treblinka death camp.

He was extradited to Israel in 1986, and two years later he was found guilty of
war crimes and crimes against humanity. He appealed, and Israel's Supreme Court
in 1993 ruled that Demjanjuk was not Ivan the Terrible and allowed him to return
to the United States.

His U.S. citizenship was restored in 1998. The Justice Department went after his
citizenship again, making a case that he had served at Sobibor and other death
or forced labor camps.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 7, 2009 Sunday

State audits use of immigration check

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 136 words


Legislative Auditor James Nobles will weigh in Wednesday on the federal
electronic system employers use to check employees' immigration status.

The audit looks at E-Verify, the system that compares identifying information
from employment forms against Department of Homeland Security and Social
Security Administration databases.

Gov. Tim Pawlenty ordered all state agencies to use the system starting in early
2008.

The executive order also applies to some contractors doing business with the
state and recipients of state business incentives.

The audit will examine E-Verify's accuracy, effectiveness and costs to Minnesota
employers.

Federal reports have criticized the system, saying it has the potential for
employer misuse and can't detect fraud if someone uses genuine documents from
another person.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Cops know why 'sanctuary' is good policy

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1276 words


'Sanctuary City.'

It's a catch phrase -- and a warped one at that -- that has grown into a
politically charged side issue in the explosive debate on illegal immigration
and proposed reforms.

Basically, there are numerous municipalities and police departments across the
nation -- count St. Paul and Minneapolis among them -- that, through police
policy or city ordinance, prohibit police officers from asking a person's
citizenship or immigration status during noncriminal encounters such as routine
traffic stops.

For the yahoos out there already foaming at the mouth, let's be clear up front.
We are not talking about gangbangers, drug traffickers, human smugglers and
other lowlifes engaged in "criminal enterprise or criminal activities," as
Austin, Texas, Police Chief Art Acevedo stressed last week.

Cops are crime fighters at heart. They will do what it takes within the law to
catch the bad guys, both foreign and homegrown.

But many top police executives, including our Twin Cities honchos -- John
Harrington in St. Paul and Tim Dolan in Minneapolis -- pragmatically draw the
line when it comes to having sworn officers enforce what are still civil
violations of federal immigration laws.

Why? From a street-level public-safety point of view, it's counterproductive. It
erodes trust between the police and the community they are pledged to protect
and serve regardless of status. It strikes a blow at the proven concept of
community policing, a decades-old law enforcement tool that most cops swear by.

Cops don't set immigration policy, but they have to deal with the consequences.
And what we have now is a mess in need of repair. In the meantime, local law
enforcement is left holding the bag.

Now, of course, our state's top elected leader, the guv guy who's all but
running for president in 2012, is dead set against such bans. He and his party's
spear-carriers have failed in recent years to pass state laws either to prevent
such policies statewide or childishly pull state aid from cities that have them
in place.

"We have some larger cities in Minnesota that have adopted sanctuary ordinances
that prohibit law enforcement and others from even asking about somebody's
immigration status in the course of their duty," Gov. Tim Pawlenty said June 7
during a national TV appearance on the C-Span cable-TV channel.

He called such restrictions another example of the corrosive effect illegal
immigration is having on the nation's legal system.

"We have to be able to enforce the law and determine people's status if we are
going to have a rational and meaningful attempt to enforce immigration laws," he
said.

Great-sounding rhetoric. Sounds great on paper. But it doesn't fly in the real
world. I suggest a little homework is in order.

'THE RIGHT THING TO DO'

I suggest Pawlenty have a chat with Dolan and Harrington. I know he has not done
so on this issue.

"I've never heard (from Pawlenty)," Dolan told me last week.

But I'll cut P-Guv a little slack. Perhaps he is too busy thinking about what to
slice and dice to trim the state's budget deficit.

So I will try to help him out and provide a condensed version of the telephone
conversation I and reporters from the Associated Press and the Los Angeles Times
had with Acevedo and two other police chiefs this past week.

The others were Ron Miller, of Topeka, Kan., and Jon Zumalt, of North
Charleston, S.C.

The three police executives publicly stepped forward to support comprehensive
immigration reform as well as be the local law-enforcement community's voice at
the table when the White House convenes meetings and Congress holds hearings in
coming weeks.

"Comprehensive immigration reform is not only the right thing to do from a
humanistic standpoint, but also a public-safety standpoint," said Acevedo, a
Cuban-American and the first Latino to head Austin's 2,000-member police force.

The unintended consequences of forcing local cops to become immigration agents
on civil matters: "People living in the shadow of fear of being deported are
historically hesitant to cooperate with law enforcement when they are victims of
crimes or witnesses to crime," Acevedo added.

He provided the scenario of a child being abducted from a bus stop and the only
witness is an undocumented immigrant across the street. "If they do not step
forward, we have the potential of losing the only witness who can provide the
license plate to the kidnapper or the next suspected terrorist suspect who might
do us harm."

PROTECTING ALL RESIDENTS

Miller, a community policing supporter, described Topeka as prototypically
white-bread Middle America.

He was among almost 240 police chiefs who took part in a recently released
national Police Foundation survey on so-called sanctuary policies.

Most chiefs thought the benefits of policing communities regardless of
immigration status outweighed forcing street cops to become enforcers of what is
still, under the law, a civil violation.

"The mission of local police is to reduce crime, make neighborhoods safer,
arrest those who break the law by committing criminal violations and to protect
the community," he said.

"We cannot police a community that will not talk to us."

Zumalt brought the point home in a compelling manner. This popular chief is no
powder puff. He's a law-and-order type running a police force in a city of about
100,000 that has its share of violent crime. He lobbied hard last year to revoke
the parole status of career criminals that statistics show commit the bulk of
repeat offenses.

He noted that his city's population is nearly half white and half
African-American, with about 7 percent immigrant -- both legal and undocumented.

And then he shared this: "A couple of months ago, an illegal immigrant had the
audacity to be outside his trailer home, playing ball with his young daughter,"
Zumalt told us. "Three (assailants) knocked him to the ground, shot him, killed
him, went through his pockets, robbed him and then left.

"That's victimization," Zumalt added. "And I'm not going to allow anybody to be
victimized in my community, regardless, as an immigrant or not. And that's the
problem in my city. I have immigrants who are working hard and making money, but
they don't have any place to put the money so they are being robbed.

"And," Zumalt said, "I'm not going to tolerate that."

SKIN COLOR, ACCENT: IRRELEVANT

Dolan agrees and acknowledges that no one from Pawlenty's office has ever asked
the reasons why Dolan is so dead-set against lifting such ordinances.

Dolan made it a point to inform me that his ancestry includes Polish
grandparents who lived under the thumb of "your papers, please" repression.

"They fled Europe to escape," Dolan said. "I'm not about to let (the police
force) ask people for their papers solely because of the color of their skin or
their accent. Our job is to enforce criminal laws, not federal civil ones."

Pawlenty, Obama, Congress: You listening here?

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

To listen to a conversation and question-and-answer session with three police
chiefs on the issue of public safety and immigration, go to www.twincities.com .

The Police Foundation recently released a slew of studies and reports on the
issue, including a national survey of top police executives. To read the
reports, go to www.policefoundation.org .


     ·    Also, U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison, D-Minneapolis, and U.S. Rep. Luis
          Gutierrez, D-Illinois, will take part in a discussion today on
          immigration from 2:30 to 4 p.m. at Incarnation Church, 3800 Pleasant
          Ave., Minneapolis. The event will be followed by a news conference
          featuring, among others, U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., and St.
          Paul Mayor Chris Coleman.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday

Gay couples seek changes in immigration law in U.S.

BYLINE: By Lien Hoang lhoang@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES; Local

LENGTH: 1013 words


Traveling from a homeland that bans sex except for reproduction, Ray Sin
expected fewer restrictions in the United States.

But after the student from Singapore fell in love in Minneapolis, his impression
that the United States was progressive was punctured. He learned that his
partner, Phillip Knoll, could not sponsor him to live in the United States, as
can a heterosexual wishing to sponsor a spouse from abroad.

"That's when I realized, 'Oh, no, we have so many obstacles,' " said Sin, 29.

Now U.S. lawmakers are drafting immigration-reform bills that would include
proposals to let gay people bring their partners to the United States
permanently.

Sen. Al Franken is expected to co-sponsor such a proposal, his spokeswoman said.

If adopted, the legislation would affect about 40,000 couples in the U.S.,
including 500 in Minnesota.

Gay-rights advocates are courting Minnesota senators and hope to meet with
Franken and Sen. Amy Klobuchar before Labor Day.

"Minnesota is especially important because it has the unique position of two
senators on the Judiciary Committee," said Steve Ralls, spokesman for
Immigration Equality, a D.C.-based organization that lobbies for gay rights. "It
also has a significant community of binational gay couples."

OutFront Minnesota and four binational gay couples from Minnesota will join the
meetings with Klobuchar and Franken.

"What still surprises me is how personal stories can put this into context for
elected officials," said Monica Meyer, policy director for OutFront, a
gay-advocacy group. "I think it's heartbreaking to hear their stories."

A 'Ludicrous' System / Sin and Knoll, 27, want the chance to share their story.

As a software consultant, Knoll has traveled to 20 countries and lived in three.
But he takes pride in his Minnesota roots, and this is where he and Sin want to
live.

"I feel driven out of town," Knoll said. "I shouldn't have to earn the right to
live in my own hometown."

More than a year ago, mutual friends introduced him to Sin, who was studying at
Minnesota State (Mankato) and now is a doctoral candidate at the University of
Kansas.

Between travel for Knoll's job and for Sin's education, friends doubted they
could last.

"People told us, 'You guys have a challenge in the short term, but what you get
in the long term is a bigger challenge,' " Knoll said. The bigger challenge will
be what Sin called a "time bomb" -- the pressure of finding a way to stay here
after his student visa expires.

Knoll said he would sooner move to Singapore than have Sin overstay his visa.

The men said they want to work inside the system, not abuse it, but current laws
ignore couples like them.

"It's ludicrous that the U.S. gives me all these opportunities to study and yet
doesn't give me the opportunity to give back," Sin said. "All we want is to
contribute to society and be a part of society."

'It's Not A Life' / For Tamara Glick and Anne-Laure Campisi, moving to another
country is less of an option. Glick, of Bloomington, has stayed with her partner
in France several times, but usually Campisi visits here. With a 9-year-old son
and a sick mother, Glick finds little time to get away.

"The most frustrating part is it's out of our control," said Glick, 32. "We have
to live by others' rules, which make no sense to us."

She and Campisi, 23, met in 2006 while chatting online about a television show.
But the discussions of actors and episodes gave way to solace as they both coped
with death -- Glick had lost a brother, and Campisi had lost her mother.

"When you give support to someone like that, a relationship just blossoms,"
Glick said.

The couple gradually saw more of each other. But after being detained for two
hours by customs officials at Chicago O'Hare airport last year, Campisi said,
she's nervous every time she crosses the Atlantic.

Officials got suspicious when they saw how frequently she had been entering the
United States, Campisi said. Michael Davis, a Minneapolis-based immigration
lawyer specializing in visa processing, said red flags go up when visitors are
known to have partners in the United States.

"It's more complicated with gay couples because immigration authorities are more
likely to scrutinize those types of relationships," Davis said. "Whether because
of bias or other reasons, I don't know."

Fearing she will encounter a homophobic official, Campisi sticks to the story
that she and Glick are just friends.

The pair said their only hope of staying together would be a change in
immigration rules.

"We can't go on like this," Campisi said. "It's not a life."

Ready For Reform / Knoll, who runs a gay-rights Web site and raised money to bus
supporters to Washington, D.C., for a gay-rights march, said he knows it will be
difficult to change U.S. law.

"Immigration is a big enough issue by itself. And gay rights is a big enough
issue by itself," he said. "Then you put them together."

But in his eyes, the country is ready for reform -- just look at the president,
Knoll said, "the product of a binational couple."

Glick, too, is sure the law will change.

"The number of couples like us is not going to go down," she said. "We know this
bill will pass, it's just a matter of when."

More than 100 legislators in the House and about 20 in the Senate have
co-sponsored proposals in support of binational gay couples. Ralls said
Immigration Equality will focus its lobbying efforts first on the Senate, which
is likely to vote on an immigration bill this fall.

Klobuchar spokesman Linden Zakula said without seeing the proposal he could not
predict how the senator would vote. But, Zakula said, "Klobuchar has been a
supporter of legal civil unions for gay couples."

Despite such support, Knoll said he knows there will always be opposition.

"When rights are granted to a new class, there's a backlash of people saying, 'I
can't believe they give Martians the right to ride unicycles,' " he said. But as
people get used to binational gay couples, they see that "the sky doesn't fall;
life goes on. It's not as big a shock to their idea of the world as they
thought."

Lien Hoang can be reached at 651-228-5480.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 9, 2009 Monday

1,250 janitors fired over immigration

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NOT

LENGTH: 143 words


An immigration attorney says approximately 1,250 undocumented janitors in the
Twin Cities were fired from their jobs in October as their company checked
immigration papers.

The janitors worked for ABM Industries Inc., a New-York based company that
provides janitorial services, said John Keller, an attorney for the nonprofit
Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota.

Keller said the workers' union called his office in early June for legal advice.
He says ABM had sent employees letters that said Immigration and Customs
Enforcement was requiring workers to show documents proving they had legal
status to work in the U.S.

Keller said the vast majority of the 1,250 fired workers were undocumented.
Keller said that to his knowledge, no one was arrested or deported.

ICE spokesman Tim Counts said the agency doesn't discuss ongoing enforcement
activity.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

Briefing: Administration will press for immigration reform

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 1052 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has met many of the border security
benchmarks Congress set in 2007 as a prerequisite to immigration reform, and now
it's time to change the law, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said
Friday. Napolitano, designated by President Barack Obama to lead the
administration's efforts to overhaul immigration laws, said many members of
Congress had said they could support an update of immigration laws, but only
after border security improved, Napolitano said. 'Fast-forward to today, and
many of the benchmarks these members of Congress set in 2007 have been met,' she
said in a speech to the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank. She
cited construction of 600 miles of border fence and the hiring of more than
20,000 Border Patrol agents. Illegal immigration has also fallen sharply because
of better enforcement and the economy. Serial killer suspect arrested last year

CLEVELAND -- A woman told police in December that a Cleveland man now suspected
of killing 11 women had beaten her and tried to rape her, but he wasn't charged
in the case because law enforcement felt she wasn't a credible witness. The
complaint, filed nearly 10 months before police started finding bodies in
Anthony Sowell's house, raises more questions about whether law enforcement,
neighbors and victims did enough to catch a suspected serial killer. The woman
had scratches around her neck and was bleeding from a deep gash in her thumb
when she flagged down police near Sowell's home on Dec. 8, according to a police
report obtained by the Associated Press. Police arrested Sowell but released
him. On Friday, Sowell, 50, appeared in court and entered not guilty pleas to
rape, kidnapping, attempted murder and felonious assault in the separate report
of an alleged Sept. 22 attack.Military to get alerts on errant jets sooner

WASHINGTON -- Federal Aviation Administration officials said Friday they are
strengthening procedures for alerting the military when air traffic controllers
lose contact with planes. The move comes as a result of the Northwest Airlines
plane that overshot the Twin Cities last month. FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt
said air traffic control managers waited 69 minutes after the last contact with
Northwest Flight 188 before alerting the Domestic Events Network. The guidance
to controllers since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks has been to alert the
military through the network after a plane has been out of contact for five to
10 minutes, he said. The Airbus A320 carrying 144 passengers en route from San
Diego was out of contact for 69 minutes before the network was notified, Babbitt
said. The network is essentially an open phone line between key
agencies.Evangelist gets 175 years for abuse

TEXARKANA, Ark. -- Evangelist Tony Alamo used his stature as a self-proclaimed
prophet to force underage girls into sham marriages with him, controlling his
followers with their fears of eternal suffering. But the judge who sentenced
Alamo on Friday to 175 years in prison for child sexual abuse warned of another
kind of justice awaiting the aging evangelist. "Mr. Alamo, one day you will face
a higher and a greater judge than me," U.S. District Judge Harry Barnes told the
preacher. Barnes leveled the maximum sentence against the 75-year-old, who
preyed on followers' young daughters and took child "brides" as young as age 8.
A jury convicted Alamo in July on a 10-count indictment accusing him of taking
the girls across state lines for sex. Bugatti winds up in marsh; bird blamed

LA MARQUE, Texas -- Police say a low-flying pelican distracted a driver in
Texas, causing him to veer off a road and drive his million-dollar sports car
into a salt marsh. La Marque police Lt. Greg Gilchrist said the man claimed he
lost concentration while driving his French-built Bugatti Veyron on Wednesday
about 35 miles southeast of Houston because the bird swooped into sight. The
driver dropped his phone, Gilchrist said, then reached down to pick it up and
strayed into the brackish water. Gilchrist does not know if the car can be
salvaged but conceded, "Salt water isn't good for anything." Turkey will give
Kurds more rights

ANKARA, Turkey -- Turkey's government on Friday announced new measures aimed at
reconciling with minority Kurds and ending a 25-year-old insurgency, but there
was no mention of the sweeping amnesty sought by Kurdish rebels. The government
wants to remove all restrictions on the once-banned Kurdish language, create a
committee to fight discrimination, restore Kurdish names of villages and
establish an independent body to deal with complaints against security forces,
Interior Minister Besir Atalay told Parliament. Turkey is under pressure to
resolve the Kurdish conflict, as it courts membership in the European Union.
Dugard kidnap suspect apologizes

SACRAMENTO, Calif. -- The man accused of kidnapping and raping Jaycee Dugard and
holding her captive for nearly two decades wrote an apology in a jailhouse
letter that talks about "ending a sexual problem believed to be impossible."
Only a brief portion of Phillip Garrido's handwritten letter received Thursday
by KCRA-TV was released, and those excerpts did not mention Dugard. "First off,"
Garrido wrote, "I would like to apologize to every human being for what has
taken place." He continued, "People all over the world are hearing testimony
that through the spirit of Christ a mental process took place ending a sexual
problem believed to be impossible." The station was not releasing any more of
the letter. Another Munch stolen in Norway

OSLO -- Thieves stole a valuable artwork by Edvard Munch from an Oslo art dealer
in the latest of a string of art heists targeting work by the famous Norwegian
expressionist, police said Friday. One or more thieves stole "Historien" -- or
"History" -- from Nyborgs Kunst in downtown Oslo after smashing one of the
dealership's windows with a rock, police spokeswoman Unni Groendal said. The
hand-colored lithograph, printed in 1914, is worth "in the millions" of kroner
(hundreds of thousands of dollars), dealership owner Pascal Nyborg said. It was
the only item stolen in the heist late Thursday. Groendal said evidence
suggested the heist was carefully planned and orchestrated by a criminal
organization.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday

Hispanics say their votes could tip 40 congressional races this year

BYLINE: By William Douglas McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 655 words


WASHINGTON -- Failing to overhaul the nation's immigration system, currently a
backburner issue for Congress and President Barack Obama, could play a pivotal
role in key midterm election races in November, according to a new study on
Hispanic voting patterns.

The report by America's Voice, which supports comprehensive new immigration
policies, says revising the laws is the defining issue for Hispanic voters. The
report says that progress -- or the lack thereof -- in revamping immigration
laws and regulations could affect as many as 40 congressional races in areas
with sizeable Hispanic populations, including the re-election bids of Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., just two
years ago his party's presidential candidate.

"Immigration reform is a litmus test in the Latino community," Eliseo Medina,
the president of the Service Employees International Union, said during a
conference call about the study. "To us, this is a policy issue, but it is also
an issue about respect."

The study says that Obama and Democrats who campaigned in 2008 on the promise of
revamping immigration laws benefited from a 54 percent growth in registered
Hispanic voters between 2000 and 2008.

Some 10 million Hispanics voted in the 2008 presidential election. Obama
received 75 percent of the Hispanic vote while McCain received 25 percent.

Since the election, several Hispanic organizations and leaders have expressed
frustration with Obama and congressional Democrats for not aggressively pushing
a comprehensive immigration bill. The complaints grew louder after Obama barely
mentioned immigration in his State of the Union address in January.

Hispanic leaders and groups are similarly frustrated with Republicans. They feel
that the GOP is promoting and campaigning on an anti-immigration agenda in hopes
of attracting so-called "tea party" voters who prefer stricter policing of the
U.S. border to a comprehensive policy, which they consider to be amnesty for
illegal immigrants already in the country.

"The president did make a promise to the Latino community, and it has not been
forgotten," said Janet Murguia, president and chief executive of the National
Council of La Raza, a leading Hispanic lobby. "We're also looking to Congress --
Democrats and Republicans -- particularly Republicans, who can't just continue
to say 'no' ... we'll hold all these elected officials accountable."

Increases in Hispanic population and voter registration in several key states
could make Hispanics players in this year's midterm elections, according to the
study. The report points to 12 states where registered Hispanic voters account
for between 3.2 percent and 32 percent of the electorate.

The competitive races include Arizona, where McCain is facing his first serious
primary challenge from former Republican Rep. J.D. Hayworth and two other
anti-illegal immigration candidates: Chris Simcox, a founder of the Minutemen
Civil Defense Corps, and Jim Deakin, a businessman and Navy veteran.

Obama captured the Hispanic vote in Arizona by 56 to 41 percent. Hispanics make
up 14.8 percent of the state's voting population.

The study also singles out Nevada, where a politically vulnerable Reid has a
crowded field of Republicans lining up to run against him. Hispanics, who make
up 12.8 percent of Nevada's registered voters "will play an important role in
the Senate campaign and could be a decisive factor in whether the Senate
majority leader returns for his fifth term," the study said.

However, comprehensive immigration advocates warn that the Hispanic community's
vote isn't automatic and must be earned.

"If anybody thinks that somehow not acting is going to work to the advantage of
depressing turnout ... I think anybody who believes they have a lock on this
community because they don't have anywhere to go is also mistaken," Medina said.
"This is a constituency that's highly motivated and will participate."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday

Eva Rodriguez: The wrong banner to take up

BYLINE: By Eva Rodriguez

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 339 words


I found it offensive that some of the people who marched on Washington on Sunday
for immigration reform were waving the flags of Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador
while demanding rights and privileges from this country.

The flags and the demands for action "NOW!" suggested a sort of arrogance and
entitlement when humility would have been more in order.

Perhaps these marchers meant the flags as symbols of cultural or ethnic identity
and not as political banners of foreign sovereigns. Perhaps they meant no
offense and are at once proud of their heritage and sincere in their desire to
become Americans. But flags weren't my only problem.

I don't understand the claim by some that those here illegally are somehow
victims. Did they not choose to come, and did they not know that they either
entered illegally or illegally overstayed visas? Of course they did. Do they not
appreciate that one of the things that makes this country great is the rule of
law -- unlike, sadly, some of the countries they left behind? If so,
undocumented immigrants must take responsibility for their plight.

Let me be clear: I am the daughter of immigrants who fled Cuba in 1960. They
arrived with the blessing of the U.S. government, which generously offered
people like my parents refuge from Fidel Castro's regime. My parents became
fluent in English, became citizens as soon as they could and raised their four
children on lechon asado (Cuban roast pork) and the Pledge of Allegiance.

It is a travesty that more would-be immigrants aren't given such opportunities.
I understand that our immigration system is haplessly dysfunctional and major
reforms are needed. I understand the feelings of the thousands of people who
took to the Mall and voiced their desire for a path to citizenship, who want to
live without fear of arrest, who want to do an honest day's work and see their
children thrive. I understand that. But next time, show a little respect and
leave the foreign flags at home.

Eva Rodriguez is a member of the Washington Post editorial page staff.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday

Immigration overhaul is unlikely this year

BYLINE: By William Douglas McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 685 words


WASHINGTON -- With the overhaul of the nation's health care system almost off
his to-do list, President Barack Obama has renewed his promise to revamp
immigration laws this year.

"I pledge to do everything in my power to forge a bipartisan consensus this year
on this important issue," Obama said in a video message to tens of thousands of
activists who were calling for revising immigration laws as they gathered Sunday
on Washington's National Mall.

Chances are slim to none that the president will fulfill that pledge this year,
however, as administration officials and lawmakers in Congress have put several
other priorities -- from tightening financial regulations to creating jobs --
ahead of overhauling immigration laws.

Furthermore, lawmakers and immigration advocates question whether Obama has the
political capital -- and Congress the will -- to deal with another potentially
divisive hot-button issue after the bruising battle over health care and with
November's midterm elections on the horizon.

"There's nobody in there ready to say, 'Hey, let's write an immigration bill.'
Nobody," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who co-authored an immigration
framework with Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., that the president recently
embraced. "Democrats are risk-averse. If you don't believe me, go ask them about
whether or not they want to take up immigration reform in the Senate."

Since Obama took office, there's been little action on restructuring federal
immigration law or figuring out what to do with the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants who already are in this country.

Schumer and Graham's outline of a bill calls for creating a high-tech,
tamper-proof Social Security card that would ensure that employers hire only
legal workers. It includes a temporary worker program and penalties for illegal
immigrants -- fines or community service -- while allowing them to remain in the
United States.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., introduced a bill in December that would provide
100,000 visas for immigrants from countries that have high illegal immigration
rates and would expedite legal immigration for close relatives of U.S. citizens
and legal residents. Democrats and Republicans called Gutierrez's measure a
nonstarter, however.

There's little evidence that tackling immigration is a burning priority. In a
recent Wall Street Journal interview, White House chief of staff Rahm Emanuel
didn't even mention it when listing Obama's post-health care agenda, which
includes dealing with financial regulation and job creation, retooling the No
Child Left Behind education provisions and amending campaign-finance law to
rebut a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling that permits corporations and unions to
finance campaign ads.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., in a statement about Sunday's immigration
rally, said, "We look forward to sending a bipartisan bill to the president's
desk." She didn't say when.

The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the president of the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, said that he and other pro-immigration religious leaders
met Monday with members of Pelosi's staff in Washington and were told that any
movement on immigration would have to start in the Senate.

"They looked at me straight in the eye and said, 'It must be led by the Senate,'
" Rodriguez said. "I left the meeting at Pelosi's office feeling, 'Oh boy, this
will be a long climb.' I'm not sure Congress is ready for this rodeo."

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said Wednesday that he was still
hopeful about getting to immigration this year.

Graham said, however, that if Obama wanted an immigration bill, he should write
it himself and have the House of Representatives take the lead, because
party-line votes on health care had "taken the oxygen out of the room" and
"poisoned the well" in the Senate on immigration.

"The president ought to put one out there on his own," Graham said. "If you're
telling the community we're going to do this, you lead. ... You just can't put
any capital in it and say it's a big deal right before the election. After
health care, it just doesn't make any sense."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday

Tamar Jacoby: A partisan push could quash immigration reform for years

BYLINE: By Tamar Jacoby

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 780 words


WASHINGTON -- Lots of people cheered last week when it was reported that Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had agreed to steer
comprehensive immigration reform through Congress by year's end. This is a bold,
exciting plan -- and if it works, it could be a game-changer.

But that's only if it leads to a genuine, bipartisan push for an overhaul. A
symbolic, partisan effort -- such as introducing a bill that cannot pass --
would be worse than no action at all and could set the cause back for years.

Congress has tried and failed to pass immigration reform twice in the past four
years. A failure this summer would make it much harder for lawmakers to try
again soon. Reformers have only one more shot before 2012 -- an opportunity they
must not waste.

President Obama is trying to jump-start the debate, calling several Republican
senators last week to gauge their interest in immigration. But the odds against
getting a bill through Congress this year are steep.

Even with Democratic majorities in both houses, it's going to take both
Democrats and Republicans to pass reform: Many moderate Democrats are just as
likely as Republicans to vote no. Voters across the country are angry at
incumbents. Unemployment is still near 10 percent. And after the ordeal of
health care, few lawmakers in either party are in the mood to take another
controversial vote.

Neither Reid nor Pelosi has commented on the chances of success. But since Reid
declared he would move a bill (he made the surprise announcement this month at a
largely Latino rally in Nevada, where Latinos make up 15 percent of the vote),
many Democrats have jumped in to speak for him.

These supporters fall into two camps. Some, including leaders of the movement
for immigrant rights, argue that forcing consideration of a bill this year would
create momentum and draw Republicans into the debate -- and that some GOP
lawmakers, fearful of alienating Latino voters, will ultimately support reform.
As this group sees it, Reid is playing hardball with Republicans, but his
ultimate goal is passing a bipartisan bill.

A second group of Democrats has offered a strikingly different, more cynical
calculus.

Listen to Markos Moulitsas of the Daily Kos: "Reid should push for a vote
whether he has the 60 (votes) or not. While the ultimate goal is reform, even a
losing vote would show Latinos where the opposition is coming from and help
motivate them for the November elections."

An unnamed Democratic Senate aide spoke even more bluntly to Roll Call last
week: "An all-Democratic bill works better ... because the tea party and
right-wing will react strongly and permanently alienate Latinos."

In other words, some Democrats don't particularly care if no Republicans vote
for reform -- if anything, they welcome the opportunity to show up the GOP.

But that would do nothing to fix the country's broken immigration system. It
would not bring a single undocumented immigrant out of the shadows. It would not
create a workable, legal immigration system to serve U.S. interests during the
economic recovery and beyond. The way some activists see things, Democrats don't
need to deliver reform to please Latinos, the fastest-growing voting bloc in the
country. They just need to make Republicans look bad.

There is nothing new about this kind of political thinking. Most lawmakers fall
into one of two categories: those who want to solve problems and those whose
main concern is scoring political points. When the second group wins, pressing
problems become perennial wedge issues -- issues we then give up on solving
because they're so potent on Election Day.

If it is difficult to move on immigration reform now, isn't the climate likely
to be worse in 2011? Many reformers think so. No one who believes we need to fix
immigration wants to wait. And Republicans will surely gain seats in November.

But contrary to conventional wisdom, Republican gains could actually create
incentives for bipartisanship on both sides of the aisle -- on immigration and
other issues. By early 2011, the economy would be growing and unemployment
ebbing. Obama would be under intense pressure to deliver for Latino voters. And
many Republicans, too, would want to fix the system and get immigration behind
them before a tumultuous presidential election year.

The mood in Washington is volatile, and Congress may well take up immigration
this year. But a partisan push that failed, or poisoned the well for the future,
would ultimately be far worse than no push at all.

Tamar Jacoby is president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a national federation of
employers advocating immigration reform. She wrote this column for the
Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Minneapolis / Protesters march for new immigration laws

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 167 words


Thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched the streets of Minneapolis
on Saturday to call for fair and humane immigration changes following Arizona's
new law to crack down on illegal immigrants.

Police estimated that more than 2,000 people began marching from at least three
locations in the city, walking down streets banging drums, waving signs that
read "Shame on Arizona" and "SB1070 stops in Arizona," and chanting in Spanish
and English.

The march was among many across the country that attracted tens of thousands of
people.

Rallies are held annually on May 1 to call for immigration reform, but
organizers said this year took on a new urgency because of Arizona's new law.

It requires local police to question people about their immigration status if
there's reason to suspect they're in the United States illegally.

Participants banged drums and chanted "Si se puede" -- Spanish for "Yes we can"
-- and carried signs with messages including "No human being is illegal."

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Other voices: Obama vs. Arizona

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 644 words


The Obama administration slapped Arizona with a lawsuit on Tuesday, saying the
state stepped on the federal government's toes by passing a
get-tough-on-immigration law.

That's our job, the U.S. Justice Department says in its suit.

But you're not doing it, says Arizona, and the point is well taken. The state's
approach to immigration reform is harsh and overreaching. But if Obama wants
Arizona -- and the dozen or so other states mulling similar laws -- to stand
down, he's going to have to come up with something better. And soon.

The suit asks the court to block the Arizona law from taking effect July 29.
Besides usurping federal authority, the government argues, SB 1070 invites
racial profiling by instructing police to demand proof of residence from anyone
they suspect is in the country illegally. Neither argument is a slam dunk. In
similar cases, the U.S. Supreme Court has found that states acted within the
scope of their authority. And a court isn't likely to act on the racial
profiling claim before any profiling has occurred.

That's all the more reason for a renewed sense of urgency on immigration reform,
as signaled by Obama in a speech last week. The president called the Arizona law
misguided and warned that a patchwork of 50 different laws would be disastrous.
But he also called on Congress to overhaul the dysfunctional immigration system
that encourages states to take matters into their own hands.

Americans agree overwhelmingly that the system is broken, but they disagree
loudly on how to fix it. Arizona's approach -- called "attrition through
enforcement" -- is to make life miserable for illegal immigrants, so that those
who aren't deported will leave on their own.

Emboldened by support for SB 1070, some Arizona legislators are now talking
about a bill that would deny birth certificates -- and therefore automatic
citizenship -- to babies whose parents are here illegally. Gov. Jan Brewer,
meanwhile, defends the bill she signed into law by insisting that "we all know"
most illegal immigrants are drug mules.

When attrition advocates say the federal government isn't doing its job, they
mean it isn't doing enough to keep (or throw) illegal immigrants out. Before
they'll consider other reforms, they want the government to seal the border
tight.

That's a losing battle as long as there are incentives on this side --
incentives that benefit both immigrants and the American businesses that employ
them. For decades, an apt image of our southern border was a big "help wanted"
sign fastened to a razor-wire fence. The mixed message: You're not supposed to
be here -- but come if you can.

Nowhere is this more true than Arizona. Proximity to Mexico isn't the only
reason the state has so many illegal immigrants. Its economy was built on cheap,
often illegal, labor -- tourism, agriculture, construction. The flow of
immigrants across the border dried up with the job market, but it will resume
when the economy picks up. That's why it's important to fix the system now.

The framework for comprehensive reform, as outlined by Obama (and, before him,
by President George W. Bush): Border security and workplace enforcement, to
ensure workers are here legally. A flexible and realistic visa program, to match
the number of visas with the actual needs of our business sector. And a path to
legalization for the 11 million already here. That's still a non-starter with
some people, who think it rewards lawbreakers. But those immigrants broke the
law with the tacit approval not just of the government, but its citizens -- who
employed them, directly and indirectly, and benefited from their labor.

For more than a decade, federal lawmakers have ducked immigration reform. Is it
any wonder states have run out of patience? Arizona will have done us all a
favor if its wrongheaded fix gets Congress off the dime at last.

-- The Chicago Tribune

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Immigration group protests 2011 All-Stars in Ariz.

BYLINE: By DINESH RAMDE Associated Press Writer

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 320 words


MILWAUKEE Protesters rallied outside baseball commissioner Bud Selig's office
Tuesday, calling on him to move next year's All-Star game out of Arizona to
protest its tough new immigration law.

The rally of about two dozen people came one day after Brewers pitcher Yovani
Gallardo joined a number of Latino players threatening not to play in next
year's All-Star game if they make the team.

"If the game is in Arizona, I will totally boycott," Gallardo said.

Christine Neumann-Ortiz, the executive director of Milwaukee immigrants' rights
group Voces de la Frontera, called Gallardo courageous and said Selig needs to
take notice.

"Gallardo is a true All-Star," she said.

Selig was in California for Tuesday night's All-Star game. He has been reluctant
to address the issue.

Asked in May about calls to shift next year's game, he gave a defense of
baseball's minority hiring record. Selig did not take questions at Monday's
All-Star introductory event, where about three dozen people demonstrated a block
away.

Arizona's much-debated measure takes effect July 29. The statute requires
police, while enforcing other laws, to ask about a person's immigration status
if there is reasonable suspicion that the person is in the country illegally.
Critics have said the law will lead to racial profiling.

The Mexican-born Gallardo said he's talked with Kansas City reliever Joakim
Soria and San Diego's All-Star first baseman Adrian Gonzalez about the Arizona
law.

"We don't agree with it," Gallardo said. St. Louis slugger Albert Pujols said he
opposed the law and Detroit closer Jose Valverde called it "dumb."

The players' union has already condemned the law and said if it isn't repealed
or modified additional steps would be considered.

Neumann-Ortiz, the protest organizer, said Selig must stand with his players and
the fans to get the law overturned.

"That would be a legacy to be proud of," she said.


Online:

http://movethegame.org/

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

Religious leaders, lawmakers wrangle over immigration

BYLINE: By William Douglas McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 718 words


WASHINGTON -- Religious leaders and lawmakers traded Scripture passages
Wednesday at a congressional hearing on whether there's an ethical imperative to
overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

Arguing for a comprehensive immigration package with a guest-worker program,
Richard Land, the president of the Southern Baptist Convention's Ethics &
Religious Liberty Commission, quoted from Matthew, Leviticus and Micah in
pressing for action on the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now living in
the U.S.

Southern Baptists respect and strongly support upholding America's laws, he
said, but they "also recognize a biblical mandate to care for 'the least of
these among us' (Matthew 25:34-40), to care for the 'strangers' who reside in
our land (Leviticus 19:34; Hebrews 13:2) and to act justly and mercifully (Micah
6:8)," Land told the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship,
Refugees, Border Security and International Law.

Opponents of a comprehensive immigration overhaul came to the hearing with
biblical passages of their own.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, read a quote from Romans 13:1-7 that crystallized the
argument for enhanced border security and strict enforcement of existing federal
immigration laws: "Let every person be subject to governing authorities."

"I suspect we will hear today that it is somehow immoral or unethical to enforce
our nation's laws, and that we should ignore our laws," Smith said. "For those
who want to take this approach, there is just one problem: The Bible contains
numerous passages that support the rule of law."

While both sides argued, they agreed on at least two things: that the nation's
immigration system is broken and that the federal government has abdicated its
responsibility over the years by not seriously addressing the issue.

"The crisis the country is witnessing in Arizona over immigration is the result
of a failed immigration policy at the federal level," said Mathew Staver, the
dean of the Liberty University School of Law and a supporter of comprehensive
immigration legislation. "The Arizona law is a symptom and a cry for help.
However, the Constitution places the responsibility for immigration on the
federal government, not the states."

Prospects that Washington might tackle the problem this year appear bleak.
President Barack Obama, who's been getting heat from Hispanics and others to
make good on his 2008 campaign promise to revamp immigration laws, implored
Congress to address the issue in a speech two weeks ago.

However, many members of the House of Representatives and the Senate aren't
eager to take on what they consider a politically radioactive issue in an
election year. Leading House Democrats say the Senate must move on immigration
legislation first.

Sens. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., came up with a
framework for legislation, but there's no consensus on any bill that could
command a majority in either chamber.

Still, witnesses who testified Wednesday urged Congress to do something before
more states follow Arizona's lead in enacting punitive laws of their own.

Land called for more border security, stringent enforcement of existing
immigration laws and the implementation of a guest-worker program to provide a
path to citizenship for those who are already in the U.S. illegally.

"Some critics, however, suggest that 'comprehensive reform' is code for amnesty,
but such action is not amnesty because it does not merely pardon an offender,"
Land said. "My proposal requires lawbreakers to pay a fine, learn to read, write
and speak English, and follow a rigorous process for legal status. Penalties,
probation and requirements do not equal amnesty. Going to the back of the line
... to come here legally is not amnesty."

However, James Edwards, of the conservative Center for Immigration Studies, told
the subcommittee that he considers such a policy an amnesty program that would
adversely affect "native-born minorities," teenagers, legal immigrants,
ex-convicts, the disabled and other low-wage workers.

He suggested in prepared remarks that it would be more fiscally responsible for
lawmakers to "reduce immigration and forgo legalization" while the U.S. economy
is in such bad shape.

"Immigration is one of those issues in which Scripture does not detail a
normative policy," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

Bright Eyes plans concert to fight immigration law

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Music

LENGTH: 124 words


OMAHA, Neb. -- Bright Eyes, Cursive and other Nebraska music acts will perform
at a concert to raise money to fight a law that would ban the hiring of or
renting to illegal immigrants in the Nebraska city of Fremont.

The Concert for Equality on Saturday in Omaha's Benson neighborhood will include
two simultaneous shows -- one outside and the other indoors at the Waiting Room.

Tickets cost $20 to $50, and proceeds from the sold-out concert go to the
American Civil Liberties Union of Nebraska, one of two civil rights groups who
have sued the city of Fremont. The groups says the voter-approved ordinance is
discriminatory.

The Fremont City Council voted Tuesday to suspend the ban until the lawsuits are
settled. It was to take effect on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 2, 2010 Monday

Virginia AG backs immigration checks

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 155 words


RICHMOND, Va. -- Virginia joined the national debate over immigration Monday
when Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli issued a legal opinion that authorizes law
enforcement to check the immigration status of anyone stopped by police officers
for any reason. Previously, law enforcement officers in Virginia were required
to investigate the legal status only of those who were arrested and jailed.
Cuccinelli's opinion is less stringent than the portion of an Arizona law that
was stopped by a federal court last week. Under that law, Arizona authorities
were required to question people who they have a "reasonable suspicion" are
illegal immigrants. "Our opinion basically said that Virginia law enforcement
has the authority to make such inquiries so long as they don't extend the
duration of a stop by any significant degree," Cuccinelli, a Republican, said at
a news conference Monday. "That's consistent with Supreme Court authority."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday

For family separated by immigration laws, bonding time is via laptop

BYLINE: By Antonio Olivo Chicago Tribune

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 1165 words


CHICAGO -- It's bath time for 19-month-old Lucas Guerra, who splashes in delight
as his mother, Amy, washes him in their West Chicago home while his father looks
on from Monterrey, Mexico.

"Can you lift the screen a little bit?" Carlos Guerra asks, his voice coming
from the laptop computer that Amy Guerra has placed on top of a plastic bathroom
hamper.

The laptop is adjusted and Carlos' view changes from the lip of the bathtub to
the smiling toddler he's seen in person only twice since the boy was born.
"That's good, thank you," Carlos says.

The Guerras' arrangement -- a father watching his child grow up through choppy
digital bytes provided by a computer -- is an increasingly common reality for
thousands of families separated by U.S. immigration laws, prompting the creation
of several online support groups.

Between the growing number of deportations since 2007 -- 400,000 expected during
the current fiscal year that ends in October alone -- and the years-long wait
for legal immigration applications to be processed, a sense of unity for many
families rides on Internet access or long-distance telephone calls.

"It's frustrating; It doesn't feel like I'm doing parenting hands-on, or any
parenting at all," said Carlos Guerra, 29, an aspiring radiologist who has been
barred for life from legal U.S. residency because a decision made for him when
he was a teenager.

His mother had brought him and a younger brother into the U.S. illegally when he
was 16, settling in west suburban Addison, Ill. After getting married, he and
Amy left the U.S. of their own accord to live in Spain and Mexico. They tried to
move back to the Chicago area when she was seven months pregnant.

But their marriage-based visa application was rejected because in 1996 Carlos'
mother had fraudulently used someone else's U.S. passport for her then-teenage
son. Under U.S. immigration laws, the use of a false document is enough to keep
Carlos out of the country for the rest of his life.

At Carlos' insistence, Amy moved back to the U.S. to give birth to Lucas. She
took with her the laptop computer her husband had bought shortly after proposing
marriage, and the computer has come to provide an imperfect, digital sense of
intimacy.

For families separated by borders, the use of Web conversations, Facebook photos
or late-night phone calls to stay in touch starts as a temporary arrangement
while they wait for immigration court dates or changes in the law that might
affect their cases, said Nancy Kuznetsov, Midwest president for
www.americanfamiliesunited.org , a lobbying group that focuses on separation
cases.

But as the months and years drag on, the tenuous online connections begin to
seem permanent, said Kuznetsov, who lives in Schaumburg, Ill., and has used a
computer to stay in touch with her husband, Vitaly, since he was deported to
Belarus in 2007 for overstaying his visa.

"You can't touch each other; you can't see each other, that is, outside the
computer screen," she said. "I don't even know how to describe it. It's almost a
surreal state of existence."

The Guerras sought to avoid separation by moving to Barcelona shortly after they
married in 2007. They tried to make a living teaching English.

But their work visas expired and they couldn't get approval to stay in the
country because of Spain's own increasingly rigid immigration system.

They moved to Mexico and settled in Carlos Guerra's native city of Monterrey,
where by 2008 his mother and brother had also returned.

Life was hard in that smog-choked city, Amy Guerra said, describing a sudden
onslaught of asthma attacks. Their Mexican salaries as teachers weren't enough
to cover payments on the nearly $16,000 they owed in U.S. student loans and
credit card debts, she said.

After Amy became pregnant and they tried to move back to the Chicago area, they
learned that Carlos could no longer return.

Though the act of identity fraud was his mother's doing, a 1996 immigration law
mandates that anyone who has entered the U.S. fraudulently is permanently
ineligible for legal entry. Kuznetsov's group and others have been pushing for
exceptions to the law in the cases of children.

"The worst thing you can possibly hear is 'lifetime ban' and 'no waiver,' " said
Amy Guerra, 27, who recalled having a panic attack inside a Juarez hotel room
near the U.S. Consulate when she learned of the hard-line stance against her
husband.

"We're about to have a baby and I'm being told my husband will never, ever be
allowed to come into the country, no matter what I do?" she said. "I'm thinking:
'What am I going to tell my family? I'm essentially a single mother.' "

Despite the many miles that separate them, the Guerras strive for a sense of
normalcy.

Some afternoons, when the parents are at their homes in West Chicago and
Monterrey, the laptop is fired up so Carlos can have some bonding time with his
wife and son. Often, however, Carlos can check in only during the evening, after
his son has gone to bed.

"Lucas. Who's that?" Amy Guerra prompted her son one recent evening, pointing to
the face on the computer screen smiling, in a bad video feed, into a Web camera.

"Daddy!" the boy replied.

Worried that Lucas will forget his father, Amy shows the child a computer
slideshow of pictures every night before he goes to sleep. The father and son
have met twice during trips to Mexico, where Carlos taught his boy a little
about soccer and the art of a proper "high-five."

But, via computer, their interactions are brief and disjointed. Lucas, easily
distracted by other things near him, wanders into and out of his father's view.
Carlos often must strain to hear what's happening on the other end of the
Internet feed over a constant rumble of trucks outside his window in Monterrey.

"I've missed out on Lucas as a baby," Carlos lamented -- from the way his child
smells after a bath to his first steps and words.

"With Amy and Lucas, I feel like a normal person, complete," he said. "Without
them, I'm not from here (Mexico) really."

Increasingly frustrated, the couple are appealing the denial of their visa
application. They've also started to discuss moving to another country, with
Canada high on the list of possibilities.

But that would also be problematic. In 2009, Canada -- where the Mexican
population has been skyrocketing -- began requiring Mexican nationals to enter
with visas, giving higher priority to skilled professionals.

Carlos still hopes to go there as a Mexico-trained radiologist and Amy, a
certified teacher in the U.S., hopes to get a Canadian educator's license. She
explained the situation as her husband strained to hear through a scratchy
online connection.

"How long do you think it would take you to do radiology in Mexico?" Amy asked
her husband.

"What is it? I'm sorry?" his voice chirped through static on the computer
speaker, half drowned out by yet another truck roaring past his window.

While the two tried to hold a conversation, Lucas wandered off into another room
as his father's voice chirped with more static.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday

Men detained in Grand Forks over immigration status

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Lee Grand Forks Herald

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 926 words


Four men were questioned Thursday by U.S. Border Patrol agents outside a
Somali-owned cafe on South Washington Street. Three were handcuffed and taken
into custody until their immigration status could be determined, a Border Patrol
spokesman said.

Somalis at the scene about 3 p.m. Thursday said the men are Somali immigrants,
and one who was questioned was Ali Hussein, owner of the Washington Cafe,
employees and friends said.

Hussein told the Herald after he was released Thursday evening that he's going
to complain to city officials about the incident.

It began when a Grand Forks police officer saw a parking violation by a vehicle
in front of the cafe on the frontage road, Sgt. Kevin Kallinen said. Something
caused the officer to call in the Border Patrol for assistance, Kallinen said.

The incident led to large gathering of Somalis and law enforcement and lasted
about an hour.

Ahmed Farah sat in the cafe after the arrests and told an angry friend there was
nobody to manage it and the head cook was gone, so it probably wouldn't open.

Hussein is his uncle, and Farah works in the cafe, he said. Farah was driving,
with Hussein in the car, when police began asking to see a driver's license,
Farah said. It was a just a mix-up about who was driving, Farah said.

When Border Patrol agents arrived, Somalis also began gathering at the cafe to
see what was going on.

Farah said the Border Patrol agents began demanding documents from any Somali
they saw walking nearby, Farah said.

"I would understand if there was some criminal activity going on," Farah said.
"But this wasn't right."

By about 9 p.m., a cafe employee said Hussein and the other two men had been
released.

Brent Everson, a Border Patrol spokesman, characterized the agents' actions as
asking to see the kind of identification all immigrants are required to have on
their person.

After the incident, several Somalis expressed dismay and anger, saying it was
heavy-handed law enforcement singling out Somalis.

One of the men detained came to the United States only a month ago and does not
yet understand English, said Mulki Hoosh, a Somali woman who works at the local
Somali Community Center. "I told them (law enforcement) he doesn't understand
what you are saying."

The Border Patrol agents seemed to be taking unusual and unfair interest in
demanding immigration papers from Somalis, Hoosh said.

"This is my place of business" said Hoosh, referring to being a customer of the
cafe, after she had talked with Border Patrol agents and police officers.
Several of the Somalis said they worked in the cafe.

It wasn't helping the business to have all the police vehicles outside for so
long, Hoosh said. Hussein has lived in the United States for about a decade, so
there shouldn't be much question about his status, Hoosh said.

She said it appeared Hussein had an out-of-date document, or didn't have the
particular one Border Patrol agents were looking for, so he was taken in for
questioning before being released.

"This is unacceptable," said Jama Koreye, who said it appeared the Border Patrol
agents were treating Somalis differently than other immigrants.

Everson said the three men's identities would not be released by the Patrol. He
could not confirm the men were Somalis. But he said they were kept in the
patrol's holding cells in its new facility near the Grand Forks International
Airport until their immigration status was determined.

He said all immigrants must keep documentation of their status on their person
at all times. The Border Patrol regularly holds information sessions with
college students, for example, to let them know they should always have their
visa with them.

Robin David, president of the board of the local Global Friends Coalition that
works with new immigrants, said she doesn't know exactly what happened Thursday.

But she knows that many immigrants, after living here for a year or more, get
accustomed to not carrying immigration documents with them at all times.

"That practice of making people feel like they are suspects doesn't help them to
feel welcome in a community," David said Thursday night. "I don't the specifics
of what happened (Thursday), but it's important for immigrants to feel they are
part of the community."

David said informal estimates have 300 or more Somalis living in greater Grand
Forks. Many first immigrated to other parts of the United States and have moved
here since, she said.

In the past decade, more than 700 Somalis have immigrated from their homeland to
North Dakota, most to Fargo but many to Grand Forks, refugee officials have
said.

More than 80,000 Somali immigrants live in Minnesota, the largest number in any
state, according to published reports.

Hoosh said she lived previously in Boston, where it wasn't required to always
have your immigration documents on your person "as long as you have your state
ID."

She showed reporters an identification certificate she said she received from
U.S. immigration officials.

"They say this is a copy and I need the original," Hoosh said. "Well, this is
what they gave me. They are arresting people for documents they are not giving
out."

Hussein told the Herald he was released after several hours, as were the other
two men, after a lawyer helped them prove they had legal immigration status.

He had left his green card at home, but shouldn't have been jailed for it,
Hussein said.

"I have lived in Grand Forks for seven years," he said. "This is the second time
they have done this."

It's not the way to treat a business owner, he said. "I am going to the city and
talk to the mayor."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday

Agriprocessors trial reset for Sept. 8

BYLINE: By Trish Mehaffey Cedar Rapids Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 227 words


CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -- The trial date for Agriprocessors Inc. and its former CEO
on a 12-count federal indictment has been reset to Sept. 8, but that may change
if more charges are filed next month.

U.S. District Chief Judge Linda Reade conducted a telephone status conference
Tuesday with attorneys representing the kosher meatpacking company, former CEO
Sholom Rubashkin, former operations manager Brent Beebe and the prosecutor,
Assistant U.S. At torney Peter Deegan.

The trial had been set for Jan. 20 on charges of conspiracy to harbor
undocumented workers for profit, harboring and aiding and abetting the harboring
of undocumented workers for profit, conspiracy to commit document fraud, aiding
and abetting document fraud, aiding and abetting aggravated identity theft and
bank fraud. The company and Rubashkin face all 12 counts, Beebe faces 10 of the
counts and Hosam Amara and Zeev Levi face four.

Karina Freund, a former human resource employee, was named in the indictment but
is entering a plea today. Former supervisors Amara and Levi have not been
located.

Deegan said the investigation continues and more charges may be filed in
January. The meatpacking company also faces state charges in another case that
stemmed from the May 12 immigration raid in Postville. That trial, set to begin
April 20, involves allegations of 9,311 child labor law violations.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday

Milwaukee / Illegal immigrant population steady

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: WASHINGTON COUNTY; Wisconsin; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro

LENGTH: 121 words


A new study shows the number of illegal immigrants in Wisconsin has stabilized
in the past several years.

The Pew Hispanic Center study estimates there are about 85,000 illegal
immigrants in Wisconsin, about the same number as in 2005. The center's study
shows rapid growth in the number of illegal immigrants in the 1990s. There were
an estimated 10,000 illegal immigrants in Wisconsin in 1990.

The study estimates there are nearly 12 million illegal immigrants in the
country, or about 4 percent of the total population. About 75 percent are
Latino.

The Latino population in Wisconsin is estimated at 283,000.

Like Wisconsin, the number of illegal immigrants living in the U.S. has
stabilized in recent years.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              June 1, 2009 Monday

Madison / State would be 2nd with immigrant IDs

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 109 words


Wisconsin would join Utah as the only states to issue illegal immigrants special
cards that allow them to drive but don't serve as official identification.

The plan was included in Wisconsin's state budget approved by a
Democrat-controlled committee Friday. It is subject to approval by the full
Legislature and Gov. Jim Doyle.

According to the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, Utah is
the only state with a two-tiered system like what is being proposed in
Wisconsin.

Washington, Illinois and New Mexico allow illegal immigrants to receive driver's
licenses. In Hawaii, they can get state IDs, but not driver's licenses.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

Noyes, Minn. / Rail stowaway stopped at border

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 96 words


Customs agents in Noyes, Minn., reported catching a Canadian stowaway who
entered the U.S. from Canada aboard a rail car.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection said the person was detected July 5 when the
train went through an imaging station where officers could see the outline of
the individual aboard a hopper car.

The person was taken into custody, processed as an inadmissible alien and
returned to the Canadian Border Services Agency.

Those arriving in the U.S. are required to enter only at border crossing points
where they are inspected by border officers.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Michael Smerconish: The contradiction on care for immigrants here illegally

BYLINE: By Michael Smerconish

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 787 words


I doubt that Rep. Joe Wilson, R-S.C., would have disgraced himself by shouting
at Ronald Reagan as he did during Barack Obama's address Wednesday night. And
yet, his beef might be more with the former than the latter.

I know something about the issue at the heart of Wilson's outburst. Last month,
I had the opportunity to question the president at the White House. In the midst
of that live radio interview, a caller from Indiana asked Obama whether his
favored health-care proposal would cover illegal immigrants. The president
called that notion "an example of just pure misinformation out there."

"None of the bills that have been voted on in Congress and none of the proposals
coming out of the White House propose giving coverage to illegal immigrants.
None of them," he said. "That has never been on the table. Nobody has discussed
it."

What, then, would their fate be? I asked. Especially considering the Emergency
Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act -- enacted in 1986 and signed by Reagan
-- which mandates that all patients who visit an emergency room must be seen and
treated.

"Well, that will continue because we don't want a situation in which some child
-- even if they're an illegal immigrant -- shows up in an emergency room with
tuberculosis and nobody gives them treatment and then they're going back to the
playground and playing next to our kids," the president told me.

"So I think there is a basic standard of decency where if somebody's in a death
situation or a severe illness, that we're going to provide them emergency care.
But nobody has talked about providing health insurance to illegal immigrants. I
want to make that absolutely clear."

Despite that attempt at clarity, the issue that spurred "You lie!" remains an
open one.

Also, according to two experts I spoke to last week, there remains a practical
contradiction between the 1986 law and excluding illegals from the health-care
umbrella.

Dr. Gail Wilensky is no fan of the president's health-care prescriptions.
Wilensky managed Medicare and Medicaid under George H.W. Bush and advised Sen.
John McCain's campaign in 2008. She is now a senior fellow at Project HOPE, an
international health education foundation.

By promising to follow the 1986 law and prohibit illegal immigrants from
receiving health coverage, she told me, the president was "not quite explaining
the facts" in terms of emergency situations.

"We do provide some care to illegal immigrants," she said. "There's not intended
coverage under the proposals, but hospitals and workers or employers may not
know that some of their employees are here illegally. And the fact is coverage
at some level will be provided because people don't know that they're providing
coverage to illegal immigrants. It will not be done intentionally."

That sentiment was echoed by Dr. Anthony Mazzarelli, the medical director of the
department of emergency medicine at Cooper University Hospital in Camden, N.J.
He's also an assistant professor of emergency medicine and a lawyer.

Mazzarelli sees these patients every day, and estimates that 40 percent to 50
percent of the individuals he treats do not need to go to the emergency room.
Here's what he told me: "If you keep the 1986 law in place and whether you add
this reform or not, you can't say that the government is not providing some care
for illegal immigrants -- although care that, indeed, we need to provide."

But don't change the law, Mazzarelli told me. Instead, lower malpractice
premiums by providing limited liability protection for the hospitals and doctors
treating patients without insurance coverage. That, he said, would save money
for premiums as well as reduce some of the costs associated with defensive
medicine.

"So now you have, particularly inner-city hospitals like the one I work at, that
are doing the lion's share of seeing the un- and underinsured -- including
illegal immigrants -- and are required to see these people by federal law,"
Mazzarelli said. "Which is OK because I don't want to be an immigration officer
and a doctor. But it should come with either reimbursement or liability
protection."

"I always tell people I did more work for the federal government on my last
shift than the postman did. Yet he is getting liability protection from the
government and I'm not."

Of course, that point -- along with any other serious counter to the president's
proposal -- was lost amid the frenzy to condemn Wilson.

He fumed. Middle America recoiled. The GOP was harmed. And despite the looming
financial and medical crisis, nothing got done. All because Wilson interrupted
the wrong president.

Michael Smerconish writes a weekly column for The Philadelphia Inquirer. Readers
may contact him via the Web at www.mastalk.com .

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Ruben Rosario: 'Illegal alien' costume in frighteningly bad taste

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1046 words


Minneapolis-based Target Corp. got spooked this coming Halloween. So reportedly
did Toys R Us, Wal-Mart, Amazon.com and Spirit Halloween Superstores, among
other mass merchandisers.

In recent days, they pulled from their online sites, if not their store shelves,
an adult-size Halloween costume replete with a rubber space alien mask, an
orange prison-like jumpsuit with the words "Illegal Alien" and a plastic "Green
Card."

"He didn't just cross a border, he crossed a galaxy!" read a sales pitch for the
get-up. "He's got his green card, but it's from another planet! Sure to get some
laughs."

Some folks are not rolling in the aisles. The costume purging began a few days
ago after angry customers -- as well as groups such as the Coalition for Humane
Immigrant Rights in Los Angeles and the Washington, D.C.-based League of United
Latin American Citizens -- denounced the outfit as offensive, mean-spirited,
hateful and discriminatory toward Latinos in general, whether undocumented or
legal or U.S. citizens.

Dagnabbit. We are choking in political correctness. Can't America take a joke
anymore?

Actually, I toyed with buying this costume. I figured vampires, witches,
deranged chain saw-toting killers and disfigured and decomposing zombies are
pass? and no longer scary.

I figured what really might chill the bejesus out of some folks Oct. 31 is
showing up on doorsteps dressed as the most-feared scapegoat for much of
society's economic and cultural ills these days.

Ding-dong.

Door opens in Edina or (insert location here).

The homeowner glimpses me in my illegal-alien costume. Realization sets in. The
sunshine demeanor turns dark and stormy.

I hold out my kid's jack-o'-lantern basket anyway as well as my prepared sign.
It reads:

"Treat or I will trim or landscape your lawn, repair your roof, raise your
child, wash your plates, do your laundry or clean your toilet at less than
minimum wage without health benefits and pay into Social Security to boot
without ever collecting one cent from it or (fill in your own manual labor
stereotype here).

Can you just imagine the awe, the shock, the horror?

"Hon, there's an illegal alien on the porch. Forget the candy. Hide the
daughter. Call ICE and go get me my musket!"

Of course, I'm being tongue-in-cheek here. But isn't that exactly what Halloween
is all about? Dressing as monsters that don't exist except in our imagination
or, in this case, our ignorance or fear of the unknown?

Should that be the sole filter through which we interpret this costume flap? Or
are there some things simply in poor taste, regardless of which side of the
emotionally charged immigration-reform debate one is on?

Frankly, I'm a little torn here.

Part of me supports those who saw red and contacted stores after learning of
this costume, which, if you are interested, is still being sold online.

"It's very disturbing," Rosa Rosales, national president of LULAC, which
advocates on Latino issues, told a news media outlet this week. "I believe these
costumes perpetuate racism and discrimination in an already hostile environment,
especially when the country is engaged in a serious debate on immigration
reform."

Joshua Thomas, a Target spokesman, said the costume was accidentally placed
online and was never on any of the retailer's shelves.

"I think, for us, this wasn't a product in keeping with our brand," he said. "We
immediately made it no longer available."

The costume, as well as a separate mask-only disguise with a droopy mustache
that also has been pulled, was the work of a Richard Zagone, a self-proclaimed
"left-wing" type.

He told USA Today his creation was supposed to mock xenophobes like CNN
talk-show host Lou Dobbs.

Zagone was wrongheaded and has created a backlash.

Target's Thomas acknowledges the chain has also received calls from folks
criticizing its decision to pull the costume.

William Gheen, of Americans for Legal Immigration, which favors tighter border
controls, put a costume on eBay. Bids went to $116 before eBay pulled it, though
a California-based private seller is offering the costume for $89.99, last I
looked.

Another online site, buy costumes.com , reported that it has sold out of the
costume because of the controversy. Before, it was not even on the top-200 list
of most-purchased costumes. Perhaps sometimes the best approach is to ignore
something like this.

"This is a spooky Halloween because, apparently, I no longer live in a country
of free markets, free speech or free political expression," Gheen told USA
Today.

No, Mr. Gheen. This is still a free country. But free speech has consequences.

I checked locally for this costume. I hit pay dirt -- sort of -- at Twin Cities
Magic and Costume Co. in downtown St. Paul. It's a 24-year-old family-operated
business run by Jim Berg and Fred Baisch.

Berg said he has it but is not selling it because the handful or so imports came
without the alien mask and he does not plan to reorder the item.

Berg understands the sensibilities and sensitivities surrounding the flap.

But he considers Halloween to be in the same vein as comedy clubs, where comics
push the envelope and get away with offensive remarks that would be lambasted if
said elsewhere.

"You know, if you can't laugh at yourself," Berg said, adding that his store's
inventory includes a pregnant nun outfit with a sign that reads "Thank You,
Father."

His store, which also custom-makes outfits, did turn down a request nearly a
decade ago.

"It was right after 9/11, and someone asked us to make them a costume of Osama
bin Laden," Berg explained. "That, at the time, just did not make sense to us."

Well, the "illegal alien" costume just may not make sense to many folks, either.

Although he planned to send back the illegal-alien costumes, Berg told me, "If
somebody wanted the jumpsuit, we would sell it. I don't want to come across as
insensitive, but it's not a derogatory intent. I happen to know the owner of the
company that originated it and they meant not to offend."

I have a suggestion. Go wear this if you like, only on Halloween night in St.
Paul or Chicago's West Side neighborhoods, New York's Washington Heights and
Jackson Heights sections, or East L.A.

If the home folks laugh or don't whack you, you're good to go.

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or rrosario@pioneerpress.com .

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This Oct. 20, 2009 picture in Miami shows a Halloween costume depicting
a space alien in an orange prison jumpsuit labeled "illegal alien" with a "green
card." Immigrant advocates are urging retailers to pull the Halloween costume
set, while a group that supports strict immigration laws says such a move
impinges on freedom of speech. (AP Photo/J Pat Carter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday

It's about jobs

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 624 words


In signing new illegal immigration laws, the governor of Arizona had no choice.
The federal government has been negligent in its duties to enforce current laws
that would protect our nation's borders. Some criticize Arizona for making it
easier to engage in racial profiling. However, this charge isn't the real issue.

The reason many politicians want illegals to stream freely into our country is
so that businesses can replace higher-paid workers. The accusation of "racial
profiling" is just a front that politicians hide behind so they can avoid
admitting the truth -- that they are putting many citizens out of work so
businesses can employ cheap labor.

In addition to the financial meltdown, corruption and greed, this is another
reason voters need to replace both Republicans and Democrats with independent
representatives to strengthen their future.

Scott Sims, BurnsvilleInvesting in schools

There has been much reported on Minnesota's Race to the Top application and why
the application was rejected. News reports and legislative time have been
focused on an alternative method for obtaining a teaching license.

One would think that there is a shortage of teachers in the state, but the truth
is the exact opposite. There are competent, able, experienced and enthusiastic
teachers available because districts across Minnesota are letting them go. In
ISD 196 (Rosemount, Apple Valley and Eagan) the district released about 150
probationary teachers this week and will lay off an unknown number of tenured
teachers on May 10, all for budgetary reasons caused by lack of funding.

What isn't being discussed, and should be, is the lack of funding for Minnesota
schools. In a time when Minnesota should be making an investment in children and
schools, it is doing the exact opposite. The governor's lack of financial
commitment and vision for Minnesota's children is being felt across the state as
districts lay off employees, cut programs and services and increase class sizes
to weather the financial storm.

If Minnesota is going to maintain its status as a national leader in education,
an approved Race to the Top application isn't the fix. In fact, it isn't even a
Band-Aid because the money ends in four years.

Jim Smola, Apple Valley

The writer is president of Dakota County Educators, which represents teachers

in District 196.Voter ID: A fair idea

We need to keep photo ID and the "discrepancy" in the 2008 vote in the news.
Most voters are very apolitical and really do not educate themselves about
issues. That is why most voters follow their family voting pattern so they don't
have to think about it, just do their civic duty and vote.

It is the thoughtful voters who really educate themselves before voting and
often change parties or become independents because of issues.

Of the St. Paul registered voters I have asked to sign the St. Paul photo ID
petition, 95 percent sign it, regardless of party. Everyone thinks it is a fair
idea for all.

The other 5 percent start spouting thoughtless lingo and I just smile, thank
them and walk on.

Jean Sanford, St. PaulA shining example

Well done, Pioneer Press and Tim Leighton, on the great article about Father
John Forliti ("Still giving after all these years," April 27). It is a shining
example of just what the vast majority of the thousands of Catholic priests do
every day without media attention.

Only a very few have sullied the name and reputation of these wonderful and
gifted men while their great work goes unheralded in our society.

Those who work to raise the spiritual and moral level of our society far
outnumber the few who would destroy it but receive all the publicity. God bless
Father Forliti and the vast number of good priests and ministers in our country.

R. J. Houck, Roseville

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Other voices: Arizona has a right to be wrong

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 424 words


President Obama's administration and a host of critics have lambasted Arizona's
new law allowing police to question individuals they suspect of being in the
country illegally. The president says the new policy endangers "basic notions of
fairness." That's a sound criticism of a misguided law.

What is not so sound is the notion of challenging the measure as
unconstitutional, something being entertained by the U.S. Justice Department.
It's too early to conclude that the state is overstepping its legitimate powers
or violating anyone's rights.

There are two central grounds for a lawsuit. The first: By allowing cops to
demand proof of legal residence from anyone they reasonably suspect of being
here illegally, the law ordains racial profiling, which is illegal.

That argument doesn't look promising. In its original form, the law said police
could not use race as the sole reason for suspecting someone was an illegal
immigrant, which left open using it as one reason. Later, though, the Arizona
legislature barred any consideration of race by police.

It's possible that cops will target Latinos anyway. But the courts are not
likely to block implementation of the law on the theory that it's impossible to
enforce without racial profiling. They would need evidence.

The second basis for a suit is the claim that by legislating on immigration, a
federal responsibility, the state is meddling in areas where it must yield to a
higher authority.

But just because the statute affects illegal immigrants doesn't mean Arizona is
out of line. In 1976, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a California ban on the
employment of illegal immigrants. Congress could explicitly bar states from
legislating on such matters, but it hasn't.

The Justice Department could argue that by obliging cops to detain illegal
immigrants and turn them over to federal authorities, Arizona will impose an
expensive burden on Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. It could also claim
that by antagonizing Mexico, whose president has denounced the law, the state
has undermined U.S. foreign policy.

But those arguments are shaky on both legal and political grounds. All Arizona
is doing, after all, is shoring up enforcement of laws enacted by the federal
government.

While Arizona's purported remedy for its illegal immigration dilemma is clumsy
and dangerous, it's not beyond the reasonable scope of state authority. Arizona
ought to have considerable freedom to address the problem as it sees fit. And
the other 49 states should be free to spurn its solution.

-- The Chicago Tribune

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 28, 2010 Friday

Briefing: Paul: No citizenship for illegal-immigrant babies

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 881 words


FRANKFORT, Ky. -- U.S. Senate candidate Rand Paul is stirring it up, this time
by saying he opposes citizenship for children born in the U.S. to parents who
are illegal immigrants. Paul, who a week ago won the GOP primary, told a TV
station in a clip circulating on political Web sites Friday that he wants to
block citizenship to those children. 'We're the only country I know that allows
people to come in illegally, have a baby, and then that baby becomes a citizen,'
Paul told the station, shortly after his win over GOP candidate Trey Grayson.
Legislation dubbed the Birthright Citizenship Act was introduced in the House
last year seeking to prevent citizenship to babies born to illegal immigrants
even though the 14th Amendment to the Constitution guarantees citizenship to
everyone born in the U.S. Japan lets U.S. keep Okinawa base

TOKYO -- Washington and Tokyo agreed Friday to keep a contentious U.S. Marine
base in Okinawa, with Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama highlighting the importance
of the Japanese-American security alliance amid rising tension on the nearby
Korean peninsula. In a joint statement, the two allies agreed to move the Marine
Corps Air Station Futenma to Henoko, in a less crowded, northern part of the
island. The decision is broadly in line with a 2006 deal forged with the
previous Tokyo government, but it breaks Hatoyama's campaign promise and has
infuriated Okinawa residents who have complained about pollution, noise and
possible danger from the bases across the island. Aussies challenging Japan
whale hunts

CANBERRA, Australia -- Australia said Friday it will challenge Japan's whale
hunting in the Antarctic at the International Court of Justice, a major legal
escalation in its campaign to ban the practice despite Tokyo's insistence on the
right to so-called scientific whaling. Japan's foreign ministry called the
action regrettable at a time when 88 member-nations of the International Whaling
Commission were discussing a proposal that could allow some limited whaling for
the first time in 25 years. "We will continue to explain that the scientific
whaling that we are conducting is lawful in accordance with Article 8 of the
international convention for the regulation of whaling," said Japan's Foreign
Ministry Deputy Press Secretary Hidenobu Soba-shima. Japan, Norway and Iceland,
which harpoon around 2,000 whales annually, argue that many species are abundant
enough to continue hunting them. They are backed by about half of the whaling
commission's members.Jet, cargo plane have near-collision

ANCHORAGE, Alaska -- The National Transportation Safety Board said Friday it is
investigating how a US Airways passenger jet flew within a third of a mile of a
cargo plane at Anchorage's airport after the airliner's crew refused to make a
turn they said would "put their flight in direct conflict" with the departing
cargo jet. The near-collision occurred about 12:10 a.m. May 21, when US Airways
Flight 140, arriving from Phoenix, missed an approach and was turning to make a
second landing try, the federal agency said in a news release. The plane with
138 people on board came within an estimated 100 feet vertically and one-third
of a mile horizontally of the departing Cargolux Boeing 747-400, which was bound
for Chicago. "It's a very, very serious loss of separation in controlled
airspace," Federal Aviation Administration spokes-man Mike Fergus said Friday.
Man in bomb probe ordered deported

BOSTON -- A man arrested in Massachusetts during the probe into the failed Times
Square bombing has been ordered deported to his native Pakistan, a U.S.
immigration judge ruled. Judge Robin Feder made the ruling Thursday in the case
of Aftab Khan, according to Kathryn Mattingly of the Executive Office for
Immigration Review. Khan was one of three men arrested on immigration charges
May 13 and suspected of supplying funds to the primary suspect, Faisal Shahzad,
through an informal money-transfer network. But authorities said the men may not
have known how the money would be used. Khan has 30 days to appeal Feder's
decision. Transplant cancer not hospital's fault

NEW YORK -- A prominent organ-transplant hospital wasn't to blame for the death
of a man who became riddled with cancer after getting a kidney from a donor who
unknowingly had uterine cancer, jurors found Friday. The Queens jury found for
NYU Langone Medical Center in the medical malpractice case stemming from Vincent
Liew's 2002 death, said the hospital's lawyer, Robert Elliott. Experts have said
it may be the only case of uterine cancer being transmitted by transplant,
though the hospital has suggested Liew died of another form of cancer derived
from the transplant. Obama extends delay on logging

GRANTS PASS, Ore. -- The Obama administration Friday extended for another year
the moratorium on most logging and mining in millions of acres of remote and
rugged backcountry sections of national forests. Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack said he wants to continue to give decisions on projects in areas without
roads a higher level of scrutiny while waiting for federal courts to resolve the
legal issues. Conservation groups and the timber industry both welcomed the
moratorium because of continued questions over the legal standing of the policy.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman orders boycott of city-funded travel to Arizona

BYLINE: By Dave Orrick dorrick@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Legislature; Ramsey County; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 249 words


St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman wasted no time Wednesday morning in inserting
himself into the debate over the controversial new Arizona law on illegal
immigration.

Without knowing whether any trips had been booked from the capital city to the
Grand Canyon State -- and not caring much either way -- the Democrat issued an
executive order banning city-funded travel to Arizona and urged other elected
leaders to do the same.

The new Arizona law has sparked intense debate because it gives police the right
to ask those presumed to be illegal immigrants for proof of citizenship -- an
act specifically prohibited in many major cities, including St. Paul and
Minneapolis.

Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak, who doesn't have the power to issue a ban, is
"looking into" urging the Minneapolis City Council to pass a similar boycott, a
spokesman said.

Saying it will "create a culture where racial profiling is acceptable," Coleman
decried the Arizona law. "I can't imagine what it would have been like for my
grandmother had they passed a similar anti-Irish law," he said.

There are exceptions to Coleman's decree, however.

For example, if a law enforcement investigation demands travel to Arizona, cops
will go, said Bob Hume, Coleman's spokesman.

Few, if any, city workers are scheduled to travel to Arizona, but no one in the
mayor's office knew for certain Wednesday. If any trips already are booked and
if canceling the trips would cost taxpayers money, employees will be allowed to
travel to Arizona, Hume said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman gives his 2010 State of the City Address
at the Visitor's Center Auditorium at Como Park Zoo and Conservatory in St.
Paul, Minn., on Thursday, April 23, 2010. (Pioneer Press: Ben Garvin)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

No sign all-stars to skip Phoenix

BYLINE: From news services

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 322 words


Bud Selig considers Arizona's new immigration law a political issue and is
showing no signs that Major League Baseball will shift next year's All-Star Game
out of the state.

A day after Milwaukee pitcher Yovani Gallardo and other all-stars said they
could envision boycotting the 2011 game at Phoenix in protest, the commissioner
never mentioned a possible shift.

The situation "will be solved in the political process at the appropriate time,"
Selig said Tuesday. "We'll do things when baseball can influence decisions."

Speaking to members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America before the
All-Star Game at Angel Stadium, Selig hit several topics. Among them, he said:


     ·    Players and executives expressed "little appetite" for expanded
          replay, even after Armando Galarraga lost a perfect game on an
          umpire's missed call.



     ·    MLB is "exploring ways" to trim the season so the World Series doesn't
          run deeper into November. Starting next season on a Thursday was a
          possibility.



     ·    He still intends to retire after 2012.


Asked whether there was a chance Pete Rose's lifetime ban could be lifted before
then, Selig declined to say. "I am the judge in the case," he said. "He has a
right to appeal."

Rangers auction set: A federal bankruptcy judge has decided that the Texas
Rangers will be auctioned off after all.

U.S. Bankruptcy Judge D. Michael Lynn set the date for Aug. 4.

Negro Leagues tribute: The Negro Leagues take the baseball field again Thursday
as the Postal Service honors the organizations that gave black players a chance
to show their talents before the major leagues were integrated.

Two 44-cent commemorative stamps will be dedicated in ceremonies at the Negro
Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City, Mo.

Briefly: The New York Yankees will wear uniform patches for the rest of the
season, beginning with their Friday home game against Tampa Bay, to honor owner
George Steinbrenner and longtime public address announcer Bob Sheppard.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday

Arizona governor vows to fight for law -- or change it

BYLINE: By Jacques Billeaud Associated Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 411 words


PHOENIX -- The fight over Arizona's immigration law showed no signs of letting
up Friday as the federal judge who blunted its force faced threats and the
Republican governor who signed it considered changes to address any faults.

In the days since U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton put on hold the most
controversial parts of the law, hundreds of e-mails and phone calls -- including
some threats -- have poured into the courthouse.

Seventy people have been arrested in demonstrations.

And a fund set up to help defend the new law added $75,000 Wednesday alone,
giving the state more than $1.6 million to get Bolton's ruling overturned.

Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the law and appealed the ruling, has vowed not to
back down, saying she'll challenge Bolton's decision all the way to the Supreme
Court.

But Brewer said Friday that she'd consider changes to "tweak" the law to respond
to the parts Bolton faulted.

"Basically we believe (the law) is constitutional, but she obviously pointed out
faults that can possibly be fixed, and that's what we would do," Brewer told the
Associated Press. She said she's talking to legislative leaders about the
possibility of a special session but said no specific changes had been
identified.

In her temporary injunction, Bolton delayed the most contentious provisions of
the law, including a section that required officers to check a person's
immigration status while enforcing other laws. Bolton indicated the federal
government's case has a good chance at succeeding in its argument that federal
immigration law trumps state law.

But she allowed police to enforce the law's bans on blocking vehicle traffic
when seeking or offering day-labor services and a revision to the smuggling ban
that lets officers stop drivers if they suspect motorists have broken traffic
laws.

Bolton also let officers enforce a new prohibition on driving or harboring
illegal immigrants in furtherance of their illegal presence.

Democrats scoffed at Brewer's desire to change the law, with a key House
minority leader calling it laughable.

"Why would we help her?" asked Rep. Kyrsten Sinema of Phoenix. "This bill is so
flawed and clearly a federal judge agrees."

House Speaker Kirk Adams said there would be little support among fellow
Republicans to weaken the law.

Attorneys have begun reviewing the law to identify possible changes, he said:
"It's embryonic."

Sen. Russell Pearce, the law's chief sponsor, said he would back changes only to
make it stronger.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday

Dear Arizona (and Minnesota): There has to be a better way

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1344 words


The raucous chant heard throughout Arizona, if not the nation -- 'Down with SB
1070!' -- got a local four-digit addition last week at a rally on the steps of
the Minnesota Capitol.

'Down with 1070 and down with HB 3830!' shouted scores of folks among a crowd of
about 200 who showed up to protest the Arizona law and also blast a proposed
state law.

HB 3830 is Minnesota's draft of the Arizona law. It was among more than 18
introduced in other states before last week's ruling.

U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton's temporary injunction, under appeal by
Arizona, blocked police from checking the status of people they stop or suspect
are in the country illegally. It also stopped from taking effect a provision
that would have made it a state crime to be caught without immigration papers.
Both are outlined in the proposed legislation here.

Not surprisingly, since we are living in the polarized and paranoid states of
America, Bolton has become the subject of numerous threats.

Yet, last week's ruling is just the start of a protracted legal journey that
will most assuredly lead to a final decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. And the
robed nine, I predict, will probably split the baby along federal-state
authority lines much as Bolton did last week.

In the meantime, HB 3830 will be introduced in next year's state legislative
session and trigger much of the same emotional and legal debate locally as we
have seen in Arizona.

Indeed, "the ruling has not affected my decision to go ahead with the
introduction of one or more illegal-immigration bills next session," HB 3830's
author, state Rep. Steve Drazkowski, R-Mazeppa, wrote in an e-mail.

"I will certainly be keeping my eye on the legal fight that the great state of
Arizona is fighting against an unresponsive and out-of-touch federal
government," he added. "Understanding that 70 percent of Minnesotans support the
passage of the Arizona bill language in our state, the decisions around what my
legislative efforts will include will be determined as the session nears."

'SANCTUARY CITIES' AT ISSUE

But the most intriguing aspect of Bolton's ruling is not what she blocked. It's
what she allowed to stand. The biggie is the statewide ban that prohibits
Arizona officials, agencies and political subdivisions from "limiting
enforcement of federal immigration laws."

It also permits citizens to sue any publicly employed individual or government
entity that adopts or practices a policy of restricting enforcement of federal
immigration laws to less than the full extent permitted by federal law.

These have been called "sanctuary cities," comparable to a church providing
"sanctuary."

"Striking down these sanctuary city policies has always been the number one
priority of SB 1070," Arizona state Sen. Russell Pearce, the bill's chief
author, told a media outlet there following Bolton's ruling.

"Judge Bolton has made it clear," he added. "These policies are illegal, and
cities in violation will face significant fines immediately. The political
handcuffs are coming off law enforcement."

Now, most folks have the perception that under "sanctuary" edicts, cops cannot
ask or check or investigate the immigration status of folks they encounter. Not
true. They are allowed to do so when the encounter leads to a citation or arrest
in a criminal matter. If they find a violation, they are allowed to inform
federal immigration officials.

Spokespeople for the state's two largest sheriff's offices in Minnesota --
Hennepin and Ramsey counties -- confirmed that jail personnel don't as a
practice tip off federal officials to a suspected illegal immigrant being
booked.

Still, both stressed that local Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
routinely check jail booking sheets and match them with the agency's database of
illegal immigrants.

Also, ordinance or not, many rank-and-file cops tip off the feds to suspected
illegal immigrants they encounter, according to numerous police sources in
various jurisdictions. But many others don't feel it is their job if the person
they encounter has not committed a crime.

HOW IT WORKS HERE

St. Paul's city ordinance on this matter, pretty much adopted by Minneapolis,
says, "Public safety officials may not undertake any law enforcement action for
the sole purpose of detecting the presence of undocumented persons, or to verify
immigration status, including but not limited to questioning any person or
persons about their immigration status."

The police chiefs in the Twin Cities also said they believe a ban like Arizona's
would hinder crime fighting.

"We believe that mobilizing local police to serve as primary enforcers of
federal immigration laws will throw up barriers of mistrust and cause a chilling
effect in immigrant communities, impairing our ability to build partnerships and
engage in problem-solving that improves the safety of all members of the
community," says a document endorsed by Minneapolis and St. Paul Police Chiefs
Tim Dolan and Thomas Smith.

"The culture of fear that this bill will instill in immigrant communities will
keep victims of crime and people with information about crime from coming
forward," the document states.

For many years, San Francisco was considered the nation's premier "sanctuary
city." It's now a card-carrying member and partner in the 2-year-old federal
"Secure Communities" program.

Under the program, federal agents are granted access to a database of
fingerprints taken at jails during and after booking. The program's goal,
according to officials, is to concentrate more on the illegal immigrant
committing crimes than the overwhelming majority of illegal but otherwise
law-abiding undocumented folks who prepare and cook our food, manicure our
lawns, empty our bedpans and clean our toilets and hotel rooms and such. The
state-fed program is in effect in 480 jurisdictions in 27 states. Greg Palmore,
an ICE spokesman, confirmed that no law enforcement entity in Minnesota has
signed on to take part in the ongoing state-federal initiative.

EERIE PARALLELS TO THE FEDS' CASE

Still, expect legal challenges in Arizona, here and elsewhere to the
sanctuary-city ban. If that happens, Arizona and others will ironically find
themselves making the same argument that the Department of Justice made in
challenging Arizona's law.

It will roll like this: State authority in this matter supersedes local
authority. The major talking point will be eerily the same: We cannot have 50
different cities with 50 different rules in one state.

Dale Carpenter, a University of Minnesota law professor and constitutional law
expert, agrees on the likely legal challenges.

Although it's a rough parallel, Carpenter noted what occurred in the courts in
the 1990s after the cities of Denver and Boulder enacted their own
anti-discrimination laws dealing with gays and lesbians.

This is Colorado, mind you, so a natural backlash followed that led to a voter
referendum and a subsequent state constitutional amendment that nullified the
two cities' edicts.

The basic argument? It was in the best interest of the state to have a uniform
discrimination law that superseded municipal rule.

Now all this legal mumbo-jumbo amounts to much ado about little. People will do
whatever it takes to make a better life for themselves and their families.
Historic global migrations will prevail over most attempts to curb it.

We are looking for the easy scapegoat to blame for most of our ills, and no
better sucker is out there than the illegal immigrant.

So we'll use them as pi?atas while we give gutless elected officials in the
Beltway and elsewhere a free pass to continue whacking without coming up with
realistic solutions.

Perhaps it will take a true alien invasion to unite us and make us come to our
senses. I'm not talking "E.T." here. I'm talking "War of the Worlds."

For now, we seem intent on buying into the politically and culturally divisive
games in Arizona, here and elsewhere.

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or by e-mail at
rrosario@pioneerpress.com .

ONLINE

To read House Bill 3830, go to the state legislative website at leg.state.mn.us/

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             August 6, 2010 Friday

Barrett attacks Walker as 'flip flopper' in TV ad

BYLINE: By SCOTT BAUER Associated Press Writer

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 439 words


MADISON, Wis. Democrat Tom Barrett unleashed his first attack ad of the
governor's race on Thursday, accusing Republican rival Scott Walker of being a
"flip-flopper we just can't trust."

Barrett's television ad attacks Walker's position on Arizona's immigration law,
Wisconsin's smoking ban and his budgeting as Milwaukee County executive. Walker
called it a "desperate attack."

Barrett's campaign said Friday the ad was airing in several markets statewide
but would not say how much air time was purchased. A spot check of stations by
The Associated Press found that it was airing on one Madison station 34 times in
the next week for a cost of just over $7,500.

Two Milwaukee stations said Barrett had not purchased any time and other
stations did not immediately return messages.

The ad marks the first time that any of the three major candidates for governor
have gone after one another directly on TV. Outside groups have been running
spots doing that for weeks.

Barrett's spot takes issue with Walker on three issues. The first is his
position on Arizona's immigration law. Walker in May initially expressed
concerns over the law, but a day later said he had done more research and said
he was strongly in support of it and would sign it into law he if were governor
in Arizona.

The ad shows a picture of Walker next to a cactus, which is then turned upside
down when his change in position is described.

"Scott Walker, he'll say anything to try to get elected," the narrator says.

The ad then claims that Walker supported Wisconsin's statewide smoking ban,
which took effect in July, but then changed positions and came out against it.

Walker actually never was in support of the ban but he did toughen his position.
At first he said that it was too soon to consider making exemptions to the ban,
which forbids smoking in all bars, restaurants and work places, but then he said
that if elected he would push to repeal it mirroring the stance of his
Republican challenger Mark Neumann.

Barrett's ad also correctly points out that during Walker's eight years as
county executive, his recommended budgets have increased spending by around $350
million. Walker deflects that fact by arguing, correctly, that over that time he
never proposed a budget with higher property taxes than what was enacted the
previous year.

Walker, who won the official endorsement of the Republican Party, faces Neumann,
a home builder and former congressman, in the Sept. 14 GOP primary. The winner
will likely face Barrett, the only major Democratic candidate, in the Nov. 2
election.


Associated Press writer Dinesh Ramde contributed to this story from Milwaukee.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 19, 2008 Friday

Regional Report / More Delta, NWA employees reach agreement on seniority

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: INTL BIZ BRIEFING

LENGTH: 454 words


Delta Air Lines Inc., the Atlanta-based carrier that is the world's largest
since buying Eagan-based Northwest Airlines, said the combined company's 6,000
mechanics and 30 meteorologists have reached agreements over job seniority.
Delta's mechanics and meteorologists are nonunion, and Northwest's are union
members.

Approximately 30 percent of Delta and Northwest workers now have resolved
seniority hurdles, Delta CEO Richard Anderson said Thursday on a weekly
recording to employees. Seniority is critical because it affects employees'
schedules and vacation time and, for flight crews, their pay and routes and the
size of jets they fly.

The biggest remaining seniority challenge is integrating Delta's nonunion flight
attendants with their unionized Northwest peers. Delta had 13,000 flight
attendants before acquiring Northwest, whose 8,500 attendants are represented by
the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA. The union has sued Delta, alleging
interference in labor organizing.Pallet recycler settles immigration case

A wood-pallet recycling company caught in a national crackdown on hiring illegal
immigrants, including at its Minneapolis plant, has agreed to pay a record sum
of almost $21 million to settle charges lodged by federal prosecutors in upstate
New York.

Several senior managers of Houston-based IFCO Systems North America previously
had pleaded guilty to misdemeanor and felony immigration charges since
authorities conducted a 26-state roundup of nearly 1,200 foreign workers two
years ago.

Now prosecutors say they'll drop charges against the company as part of the
settlement announced Friday, which includes IFCO taking responsibility for the
illegal hiring.

Coordinated raids at 40 IFCO plants in April 2006 netted 1,182 illegal workers,
most of them Mexican, said John Torres, acting assistant secretary of homeland
security for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. At the Minneapolis plant,
located at 3200 Como Ave. S.E., agents arrested 30 employees.

Briefly

Richfield-based electronics retailer Best Buy Co. cut the price on Apple Inc.'s
iPhone by $10 for the rest of the year as Wal-Mart prepares to start selling the
device Dec. 28. Best Buy is offering two models of the phone for $189.99 and
$289.99. ... Mendota Heights-based Patterson Cos. acquired dental software
companies Dolphin Imaging Systems and Dolphin Practice Management, for an
undisclosed amount of cash. ... Xcel Energy said the Public Service Commission
of Wisconsin created a docket to begin evaluation of the Minneapolis-based
utility's request to install biomass gasification technology at a power plant in
Ashland, Wis. The move is the first step in the regulatory review process for
the project.

-- From staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            December 28, 2008 Sunday

Phony 'IRS' e-mail is reeling some in

BYLINE: By Debra O'Connor watchdog@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: FEATURES; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Columnists

LENGTH: 475 words


If the Internal Revenue Service seems to think you're a "non-resident alien"
with potential tax problems, that might make you nervous.

Nervous enough to respond to a phony "IRS" e-mail by filling out and faxing a
form to a scam artist in New York.

The fake form, titled "Request for Recertification of Foreign Status," wants you
to bare all -- your birthday, passport number and photocopy of your passport,
place of birth, bank name and address, bank account numbers and your signature.
It even asks for your mother's maiden name, which is used as a security
identifier for many bank accounts.

The Watchdog gets frequent scam e-mails, but she paid special attention to this
one because it seems more sophisticated than many others. The attached letter is
written in plausible bureaucratese; the attached form looks believably
Byzantine. The scammers even used their spellchecker -- although the e-mail
itself suffers from a lack of punctuation. But the core of the e-mail's
effectiveness is simply that hearing from the "IRS" scares a lot of people,
especially those who may feel less-than-secure with their relationship with the
federal Treasury Department.

The e-mail seems to be a variation of one from a few years ago that was aimed at
immigrants, said IRS spokesperson Carrie Resch.

"A new twist in this one is that it also provides instructions for 'USA
Citizens,' thereby expanding the scammer's pool of potential victims," she said.

If you are startled by an ominous message from the IRS, know that the real tax
agency never asks for detailed personal information via e-mail. To report
receipt of a suspicious e-mail, to get help if you've responded to the e-mail or
for more general information, go to irs.gov , then click on Phishing and E-mail
Scams.

WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW

Reputable organizations don't e-mail you out of the blue demanding personal
information. If you get a message supposedly from your bank or a government
agency, look up the phone number on your own (don't take a number from the
questionable e-mail) and call to ask if the message is legit.

Many scam e-mails rip off logos from banks and government agencies in order to
look official. Often, though, the text looks as if the writers didn't pay
attention in English class: There are grammar, punctuation and capitalization
errors.

If you have any reason to question an e-mail, don't open any attachments. They
can transmit malicious computer attacks and trick you into giving information
that scammers can use to commit identity theft.

Editor's note: Feel like an underdog because of a problem with a business,
government agency or school? To ask the Pioneer Press Watchdog to help, go to
twincities.com/watchdog , call 651-228-5419 or e-mail watchdog@pioneerpress.com
Or, to ask other readers for their advice, post a comment on the Watchdog blog
at blogs. twincities.com/watchdog .

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday

Tell the whole story

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 508 words


Tuesday's front-page headline, "Hamas sees in airstrikes a PR victory," and the
related article were so biased as to be breathtaking. The attacks by Israel on
Gaza are appalling. More than 300 people, mostly civilians, are dead, and there
are hundreds more injured as result of these attacks. To characterize this as
simply a public relations coup for Hamas is just another way of dismissing the
rightful grievances of the Palestinian people.

The men, women, and children in Gaza have been under siege by Israel for months,
but very little of that shows up in mainstream news coverage. Media coverage
like this keeps the American people ignorant of the conditions imposed by Israel
on the Palestinian people.

It keeps us unaware of how much the U.S. government is implicated in those
conditions, through the billions of dollars in equipment and armaments as well
as seemingly unquestioning support of whatever the Israeli government wants to
do. It's time to tell the complete story of what is going on in the Middle East.

Pauline Eichten, St. Paul Immigration Sunday -- a call for dignity

Courage is what Minnesota's Catholic bishops show in designating today as
statewide Immigration Sunday and calling for immigrants to be shown dignity and
respect.

Their call comes as federal agents raid homes and workplaces, pulling families
apart, separating children from one or both parents. Men who dared to sneak
across a border to find a better way of life are shackled. Workers given Social
Security numbers made up by employers or subcontractors may be jailed.

The bishops acknowledge the rights of nations to control their borders. But,
they add that nations also have "a higher obligation to serve the universal
common good." The bishops ask Congress to reform immigration law so it "legally
and safely allows people to enter the nation to obtain jobs and reunite with
family members."

Congress must make those reforms -- and halt the raids that make immigrants
scapegoats and degrade the rest of us.

Jerry Kahlert, Inver Grove HeightsA New Deal

Given the escalating speculation about the proposed $1 trillion stimulus
package, on top of the bailout monies and the earlier stimulus package, we can
never hope to crawl out from under the massive debt we are being asked to
assume. Is there a rational voice out there to put the brakes on, and ask "why"
and "what for" before opening an already depleted checkbook?

We already know $350 billion has been given away without oversight -- how much
more? While the politicians wrangle with various distribution formulas under the
guise of "equity," here is an idea that would probably cost less and pass the
"equity" test for politicians who seem hellbent on spending our money.

To be eligible, the criteria should be limited to those of us who have
contributed to Social Security. Why? Because we have paid to be in the game.
Then I would propose a $20,000 tax-free stimulus event for "we the people" who
meet the criteria. Give the money to the people and allow them to jump start our
economy

Pat McDonnell, Lilydale

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 11, 2009 Wednesday

Thomas Friedman:Start-ups, not just bailouts/ Stay flexible, stay open, recover

BYLINE: By Thomas Friedman

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 835 words


BANGALORE, India -- Leave it to a brainy Indian to come up with the cheapest and
surest way to stimulate our economy: immigration.

"All you need to do is grant visas to 2 million Indians, Chinese and Koreans,"
said Shekhar Gupta, editor of the Indian Express newspaper. "We will buy up all
the subprime homes. We will work 18 hours a day to pay for them. We will
immediately improve your savings rate -- no Indian bank today has more than 2
percent nonperforming loans, because not paying your mortgage is considered
shameful here. And we will start new companies to create our own jobs and jobs
for more Americans."

While his tongue was slightly in cheek, Gupta and many other Indian business
people I spoke to this week were trying to make a point that sometimes
non-Americans can make best: "Dear America, please remember how you got to be
the wealthiest country in history. It wasn't through protectionism or
state-owned banks or fearing free trade. No, the formula was very simple: Build
this really flexible, really open economy, tolerate creative destruction so dead
capital is quickly redeployed to better ideas and companies, pour into it the
most diverse, smart and energetic immigrants from every corner of the world, and
then stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat."

While I think President Barack Obama has been doing his best to keep the worst
protectionist impulses in Congress out of his stimulus plan, the U.S. Senate
unfortunately voted on Feb. 6 to restrict banks and other financial institutions
that receive taxpayer bailout money from hiring high-skilled immigrants on
temporary work permits known as H-1B visas.

Bad signal. In an age when attracting the first-round intellectual draft choices
from around the world is the most important competitive advantage that a
knowledge economy can have, why would we add barriers against such brainpower --
anywhere? That's called "Old Europe." That's spelled: S-T-U-P-I-D.

"If you do this, it will be one of the best things for India and one of the
worst for Americans, (because) Indians will be forced to innovate at home," said
Subhash Dhar, a member of the executive council that runs Infosys, the
well-known Indian technology company that sends Indian workers to America to
support a wide range of firms. "We protected our jobs for many years and look
where it got us. Do you know that for an Indian company, it is still easier to
do business with a company in the U.S. than it is to do business today with
another Indian state?"

Each Indian state tries to protect its little economy with its own rules.
America should not be trying to copy that. "Your attitude," said Dhar, should
be: 'Whoever can make us competitive and dominant, let's bring them in.' "

If there is one thing we know for absolute certain, it's this: Protectionism did
not cause the Great Depression, but it sure helped to make it "Great." From 1929
to 1934, world trade plunged by more than 60 percent -- and we were all worse
off.

We live in a technological age where every study shows that the more knowledge
you have as a worker and the more knowledge workers you have as an economy, the
faster your incomes will rise. Therefore, the centerpiece of our stimulus, the
core driving principle, should be to stimulate everything that makes us smarter
and attracts more smart people to our shores. That is the best way to create
good jobs.

According to research by Vivek Wadhwa, a senior research associate at the Labor
and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School, more than half of Silicon Valley
start-ups were founded by immigrants over the last decade. These
immigrant-founded tech companies employed 450,000 workers and had sales of $52
billion in 2005, Wadhwa said in an essay published this week on BusinessWeek.com
.

He also cited a recent study by William R. Kerr of Harvard Business School and
William F. Lincoln of the University of Michigan that "found that in periods
when H-1B visa numbers went down, so did patent applications filed by immigrants
(in the United States). And when H-1B visa numbers went up, patent applications
followed suit."

We don't want to come out of this crisis with just inflation, a mountain of debt
and more shovel-ready jobs. We want to -- we have to -- come out of it with a
new Intel, Google, Microsoft and Apple.

I would have loved to have seen the stimulus package include a government-funded
venture capital bank to help finance all the start-ups that are clearly not
starting up today -- in the clean-energy space, they're dying like flies --
because of a lack of liquidity from traditional lending sources.

Newsweek had an essay this week that began: "Could Silicon Valley become another
Detroit?" Well, yes, it could. When the best brains in the world are on sale,
you don't shut them out. You open your doors wider. We need to attack this
financial crisis with green cards, not just greenbacks, and with start-ups, not
just bailouts. One Detroit is enough.

Thomas Friedman writes a column for the New York Times.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday

Memoir and Creative Nonfiction

SECTION: NOT

LENGTH: 311 words


The Latehomecomer: A Hmong Family Memoir
Kao Kalia Yang
Born in a refugee camp in Thailand, Kao Kalia Yang immigrated to Saint Paul when
she was six years old.  This is the story of her family's harrowing escape from
Laos, their life in refugee camps, and the hardships and joys that came with
carving out a life in America.  Yang is the co-founder of Words Wanted, an
agency dedicated to helping immigrants with writing, translating, and business
services.

Madness: A Bipolar Life
Marya Hornbacher
At age twenty-four, Marya Hornbacher was diagnosed with the most severe form of
bipoloar disorder.  In this memoir, the author shares her desperate attempts to
counteract violently careening mood swings through self-starvation, substance
abuse, numbing sex, and self-mutilation.  Hornbacher's national bestseller,
Wasted:  A Memoir of Anorexia and Bulimia, was a Pulitzer Prize nominee.

Renaming the Earth: Personal Essays
Ray Gonzalez
The author reflects on the American Southwest, a place that tugs at him, from
its arid desert landscapes to its polyglot cities   part Mexican, part Anglo,
and part something in-between.  He writes of borders, both real and surreal,
borders that are themselves historical, spiritual, personal, and universal.  Ray
Gonzalez teaches in the MFA program at the University of Minnesota, and is the
author of several books including ten poetry collections.

Swallow the Ocean
Laura M. Flynn
Set in 1970s San Francisco, this is the true story of what it is like to
experience a parent's schizophrenia through the lens of a child.  Laura and her
two sisters retreat to books, stories, and elaborate games, creating a
powerfully protective world of imagination as a way of coping with their
mother's illness and parents' divorce.  Laura M. Flynn is a graduate of the
University of Minnesota's MFA program, where she now teaches.  This is her first
book.



LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday

Bill would offer leeway on parents' deportations

BYLINE: By Patrick Mcgee McClatchy Newspapers

SECTION: FEATURES

LENGTH: 910 words


FORT WORTH, Texas -- Gloria Gonzalez-Garcia's family was torn in two Dec. 2.

Her husband, Jose Alfredo Garcia, was arrested by Mineral Wells, Texas, police,
and his status as an illegal immigrant quickly got him a one-way ticket to
Mexico. He was turned over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and
deported the next day.

It didn't matter that he had been paying taxes, buying a house or taking care of
his daughters, who are American citizens because they were born in the U.S.

"The little ones don't understand, and they don't know what happened. They don't
know why their dad has to be in Mexico," Gonzalez-Garcia said at her Fort Worth
home.

Garcia's abrupt deportation is an example of how tens of thousands of parents
are separated from their children when immigration law catches up with them.

A report released this month by the Homeland Security Department's Office of
Inspector General found that more than 108,000 parents of U.S.-born children
were deported between 1998 and 2007.

U.S. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., asked for the study and is using its findings to
push his bill, the Child Citizen Protection Act, which would allow immigration
judges to use discretion and halt the deportation of a parent of a child who is
a U.S. citizen.

Serrano said that parents often have no choice but to take their U.S.-born
children with them when they are deported.

"By virtue of this action we have, in fact, deported or forced out of the
country American citizens," he said.

Gonzalez-Garcia said she and her three daughters might get to that point, even
though they were all born in the U.S. She said everyone she has talked to told
her that nothing can get her husband back legally.

"Sometimes, I think that we'll have to move over there just so we can be a
family again," she said, fighting back tears.

ICE spokeswoman Barbara Gonzalez said that despite the difficulty of such
situations, people cannot expect that their children will keep immigration laws
from applying to them.

"Violation of our immigrants laws -- not law enforcement -- is the fundamental
cause for this issue, and the choice to willfully violate our national laws may
have long-term unfavorable consequences," she said. "Parenthood does not exempt
any person from complying with our nation's laws, including our immigration
laws, and it's unfortunate that parents are putting their children in this
difficult situation by breaking the law."

Serrano said he agrees that having children should not protect people from
breaking the law.

"I'm not suggesting I have an answer. I'm identifying a problem that we need to
address," he said.

But neither he, nor his bill, say what should become of the parent's immigration
status.

The bill says an immigration judge "may exercise discretion to decline" an order
of deportation if the immigrant has U.S.-born children. It does not say what
would happen to the immigrant's legal status or what would happen if the
immigrant ended up in court or in custody again.

"My bill doesn't speak to the final solution of the problem," Serrano said. "My
whole purpose is to alert people to the fact that there's this issue."

Mineral Wells police Lt. Brad Bellz said Garcia was pulled over for driving 37
mph in a 20-mph school zone and was arrested for not having a driver's license.
Another Mexican immigrant in the vehicle was also arrested.

"The officer asked them if they were in the United States legally, and they
replied 'no,' " Bellz said. "If they can't prove their citizenship or something,
and they say they are not here legally, we will place a hold on them until we
can contact an (ICE) agent, and if the agent says 'We don't want them,' we will
release them."

Garcia and his wife said that he was not driving, that they were not speeding
and that they were not in a school zone. Gonzalez-Garcia said that her husband
told police he was having his immigration status legalized with the help of an
attorney but that did not change their attitude toward him.

Interviewed by telephone from Mexico, Garcia said he's living with his parents
but cannot find work. He said he wants to return to the U.S.

"I have my family there. My daughters are born there. I think I can have a
better future there," he said. "If they can fix my situation, I would prefer to
live in the United States."

Gonzalez-Garcia and the three girls visited him once, but it has been hard on
his stepdaughter, 9, and his daughters, 4 and 2.

"They are sad, and they ask me, 'When are you coming home?' " he said. "I say,
'It's not certain.' "

Serrano noted that the number of parents deported might be even higher than the
inspector general's report indicated.

The report noted that ICE's collection of data on child custody is voluntary.
The report suggested the agency look into better reporting of custody and of
whether children are minors when their parents are deported.

The report said ICE agreed to spend the next two months studying the feasibility
of collecting such data.

Rep. David Price, D-N.C., chairman of the House panel that asked for the report,
said the numbers are important because deportation has been so hard on families.

"It's obviously a matter of concern when the parent and their children are being
separated, forcibly separated, by the U.S. government," he said.

But Price would not say whether he supports Serrano's bill.

"The issue here is a very difficult set of conflicting values and conflicting
purposes," he said. "This is obviously a very tangled web of circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday

Worthington / Judge bars claims by 10 in Swift raid

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Wisconsin; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro

LENGTH: 153 words


A federal judge dismissed all claims against the Department of Homeland Security
over an immigration raid at the Swift & Co. meatpacking plant in Worthington.

The lawsuit was filed by 10 people who claimed their constitutional rights were
violated during the Dec. 12, 2006, enforcement action, dubbed Operation Wagon
Train. The raid followed a 10-month investigation into the alleged use and
distribution of fraudulent identity documents by Swift employees in six states.

Immigration agents arrested 239 people on immigration violations in Worthington,
out of a total of more than 1,200. Twenty of them also were charged with
identity theft or related counts.

According to prosecutors, Judge Joan Ericksen ruled Friday that the government's
search warrant established a sufficient basis to question the workers about
their citizenship and that the agents were entitled to detain people who were
present.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday

Bloomington / 30 arrested during immigration rally

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 117 words


About 30 people were arrested for disorderly conduct during a protest outside
the office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Bloomington.

The Minnesota Immigration Rights Action group organized the rally Wednesday to
protest ICE raids that it says breaks up families.

Bloomington police said the group initially engaged in lawful protests, but
several individuals then began blocking driveways and entrances to the building.

Television reports showed them passively resisting officers as they were carried
away.

The protest group is calling on President Barack Obama to declare a moratorium
on immigration raids and deportations.

Those arrested were released by Wednesday afternoon.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

A wakeup call, one year after immigration raid in Postville, Iowa

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1050 words


Warning: The following column is rated 'R' for righteous. People younger than 17
-- but especially closed-minded nativists, bigots and those folks with
absolutely no sense of global history or diverse life experiences -- must be
accompanied by a mature adult before reading this.

Church bells rang Tuesday. Shofars -- ram's horns blown to signify a call to
action in the Jewish tradition -- were heard coast to coast, from Malibu to
Mendota Heights to Maine.

The demonstrations, in addition to a multitude of solidarity marches and prayer
and candlelight vigils here and elsewhere, commemorated the massive federal
immigration raid a year ago this week at the Agriprocessors Inc. kosher
slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa.

Almost 400 workers, many of them undocumented workers from Guatemala and Mexico
who were longtime residents of the northeastern Iowa community, were scooped up
in a SWAT-like action replete with military-style helicopters.

Most of the workers served at least five months in prison and ultimately were
deported after initially being charged with aggravated identity theft -- a
prosecutorial tool rejected last week by the U.S. Supreme Court. And that
unanimous ruling was as stunning and crystal clear as an in-your-face LeBron
James slam-dunk.

The plant's well-heeled Orthodox Jewish owners and its supervisors and
underlings were charged, indicted, prosecuted or are still facing trial on
employment, workplace safety and child labor violations.

The raid punched a hole in the small town's economy and financial future.
Agriprocessors, which declared bankruptcy and virtually closed shop six months
after the raid, was the town's major employer.

Several other businesses closed in the wake of the raid. Home vacancy rates
surged after the loss of about 20 percent of the town's population, some 2,300
in July 2007.

The town's revenue base dipped to the point that the city council unsuccessfully
sought to declare Postville a federal disaster zone.

A weekly food pantry giveaway still draws lines reminiscent of the Depression
era.

"I don't think anyone will ever look back and say it was a good thing,'' Marilyn
Olson, a coordinator for the Postville Recovery Coalition, said of the raid in a
Waterloo, Iowa, newspaper interview. "This is a community that is deeply hurt
and grieving."

COMING TO GRIPS

These raids are pretty much like slapping a Band-Aid on a heart attack. But
we've relied on them until the recent change in presidential administrations
because our leaders -- regardless of party -- lack the cojones to cut through
the partisan politics and come up with a better way.

In the meantime, it's been the interfaith community of America that has seized
the moral leadership and higher ground on this issue.

That's why I attended an interfaith service on the Postville raid, held Tuesday
morning at the Beth Jacob Synagogue in Mendota Heights.

Rabbi Morris Allen, a longtime Twin Cities resident and religious leader, has
garnered a national if controversial name by spearheading "Hekhsher Tzedek," or
ethical seal.

Allen and many supporters believe ethical standards such as respecting worker
rights should serve as a required supplement to the traditional kosher handling
of meats, a practice pretty much corrupted by the aftermath of the raid at
Agriprocessors.

"Judaism, absent ritual or ethic, is not a complete spiritual journey," Allen
said. "It's unconscionable that we in the Jewish community were complicit in
allowing this kind of behavior to continue, where the food we are obligated to
eat was being produced on the backs of 15- and 16-year-old kids whose safety was
endangered. This is not who we are as a people."

The Rev. Jose Santiago of Holy Rosary Church in South Minneapolis, a guest at
Tuesday's service, underlined how the raid and other daily actions little known
to the public needlessly tear families apart.

He peppered the audience with example upon example of discriminatory practices
thrust upon members of his congregation -- from ethnic profiling to demanding
more marriage documentation than legally required by suburban city records
clerks "who take it upon themselves to be above the law."

He cited the July 14, 2008, beating death of Luis Ramirez, a 25-year-old married
father of two, by a band of assailants in the small Pennsylvania town of
Shenandoah. Two culprits, who cursed Ramirez's ethnicity during the incident,
were acquitted of murder charges in April and found guilty of simple assault --
a verdict Santiago noted was cheered by the defendants' families and friends in
the courtroom.

"We need to not allow these things to happen, whether it's in our back yard or
within our nation because they affect people who have simply come here to raise
their families and children," he said.

TAKING ACTION

Before blowing the shofar to end the service, Allen read excerpts from a letter
sent to President Barack Obama this week by Pedro Arturo Lopez Vega, a
12-year-old Postville resident affected by the raid.

Pedro's mother was among those workers arrested and deported after serving a
five-month prison term based on the charges disallowed by the nation's highest
court.

"I don't want anybody to suffer the way I did because it is very painful when
they take away the one person you can always trust and count on," Pedro wrote in
the May 6 letter.

He requested that Obama, whose administration has pretty much slapped a
moratorium on such raids pending a Department of Homeland Security review, allow
his deported mother to at least return to Postville to attend his graduation
from eighth grade in two weeks.

"I can not repay you with money but I assure you that I will do my best and
always help people in need," Pedro wrote in conclusion.

Allen then read an excerpt from the Torah that notes that "a stranger who dwells
with you shall be to you as of one of your own citizens, you shall love them as
yourself as you were strangers in the land."

Then he blew the horn, a sound hopefully heard loud and clear Tuesday in
Washington, D.C., and all corridors of righteous justice.

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

To read more about the "Hekhsher Tzedek" kosher movement, go to
rabbimorrisallen2.blogspot.com .

To read congressional testimony on the raid in Postville, go to
judiciary.house.gov/hearings/hear_072408.html .

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Rubén Rosario: Making immigrants' 'A-files' public opens window to our past

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 908 words


Imagine viewing a never-before-seen picture of your late immigrant grandfather
or grandmother, or even holding the same handwritten document they wrote or
signed at the turn of the last century. Perhaps, in some cases, you or your
child, the one who never met them, can listen to their voice on an audio
recording.

How special, how grand that would be.

Well, thanks in part to Carol Clark, a St. Paul resident, this soon will become
a reality.

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service officials said last week that the
agency will begin transferring millions of old and inactive immigration files,
once slated for destruction, to the National Archives for eventual public
viewing.

Before we rush off to the Kansas City archives warehouse where most of the
"A-files" -- Alien Registration files -- will be stored, it bears mention that
the first batch -- about 135,000 files of immigrants who were born before 1909
-- won't be available for public viewing until sometime next summer. And
subsequent files become available only after the immigrant turns 100 -- whether
alive or dead.

There eventually may be more than 21 million files available for viewing. They
include the unknown and the famous -- from Grandma Maria from Sicily to Spanish
surrealist Salvador Dali, French actor/singer Maurice Chevalier and legendary
British filmmaker Alfred Hitchcock.

The files, mostly compiled after passage of the Alien Registration Act of 1940,
contain what USCIS Associate Director Gregory Smith calls a "treasure trove" of
photos, visa applications, letters, birth certificates, transcripts and
sometimes audio recordings of interviews with immigrants. The subjects range
from Jewish refugees and war brides to "alien enemies" ordered detained,
interned or deported during and after World War II.

Chevalier, who made Hollywood flicks in the 1930s, was denied re-entry into the
U.S. in 1949, essentially because suspicions arose that he was a Nazi as well as
a Communist sympathizer. (Chevalier entertained during Nazi occupation of France
in World War II and in 1949 signed an anti-nuclear armament petition initiated
by the Communist Party.) He was allowed back in during the mid-1950s.

In another file made public last week, the late Raffaele Annunziata, an Italian
immigrant, asserted he and his family were not "idiots" or "feeble-minded" --
then standard questions asked of immigrants.

"These A-files are a key to unlocking the fascinating stories of millions of
people who traveled to the United States in search of opportunity," said
Adrienne Thomas, acting archivist of the United States.

Smith, of the immigration service, noted that some files detail some of the
darkest chapters of U.S. immigration policies, including interaction with
Japanese nationals or citizens held in internment camps, as well as Chinese who
adjusted their immigration status following repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act
in 1943.

Among others, Smith praised Clark, a veteran management analyst in the agency's
records division, for "doing much of the heavy lifting for (the agency) to see
this day come to pass."

Informal conversations to preserve such records began about a decade ago, said
Clark, a 22-year immigration service agency veteran who is based at Fort
Snelling.

At the time, such files were considered temporary and eligible for disposal 75
years after the date of last activity.

"These files are unique," Clark added. "You are not going to find this
information somewhere else -- it's one-stop shopping for research."

Clark's mission was to bring folks together from a multitude of agencies and
disciplines and make sure the preservation would take place. That meant
discussions about Freedom of Information and privacy laws, as well as mapping a
detailed protocol for release, transfer and eventual archiving of millions of
files.

Digital copying of old and new files is also taking place, but those copies
won't be electronically available to the public anytime soon.

This was not just a work project for Clark, a Hibbing native who grew up on the
Iron Range. Clark's late grandparents came from "the old country," as she terms
it.

She recalls as a young girl "spending time in Chisholm with my grandparents, who
are from the former Yugo-slavia, and what a melting pot the neighborhood was."

"Everyone was from ... different countries, and again, you could just feel the
pride in being a citizen," she added. "They were in this country and proud of
it."

But she also notes the pride she has in where her family came from.

"Even though I was born in the U.S., it is the values and standards that both my
father and mother's family brought with them that I grew up with and again made
me who I am today," she said.

Interestingly enough, Clark acknowledged she has not yet looked up her
grandparents' files.

But she revealed a twist of fate that took place decades ago that shaped her
immediate family's destiny.

"My dad's father came over here and was sending for his then-girlfriend to
become his bride," Clark said. "She could not make it, so they sent her sister.
And as our family says ... here we are." The sister became Clark's grandmother.
"True story."

Rubén Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

ONLINE

Although "Alien Registration" immigration files won't become publicly available
for viewing until next summer, anyone interested in finding out whether the
government has a record of an ancestor can check for a fee at:
www.uscis.gov/genealogy .

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday

After finally getting U.S. visa, Pakistani grandma reunites with family in
Somerset, Wis.

BYLINE: By Andy Rathbun arathbun@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: WISCONSIN; Local

LENGTH: 551 words


When Naseem Francis landed in New York City last week, the relief was so
unbelievable, she had to kiss a wall at JFK airport.

The Pakistani grandmother had been waiting more than 1 1/2 years for her
immigration visa to pass through bureaucratic red tape so she could join her
family in Somerset.

Now, finally, they are together.

"She's home, and she's thrilled to be safe with her grandkids," said
daughter-in-law Jessica Francis, who described Naseem Francis as "ecstatic" to
be with the family that had long worried about her safety.

In Rawalpindi, Pakistan, Francis had been living in fear. She discreetly
attended Mass in the back rooms of private homes, afraid of the escalating
violence and threats directed at Christians in the area.

These days, though, she tries to go to Mass every day at St. Anne's Parish in
Somerset.

"She's trying to make up for what she's been missing for so long," Jessica
Francis said.

Naseem Francis and her husband, Saleem Francis, were approved for permanent
residency in the U.S. in 2007 after one of their sons, a resident of Somerset,
became a U.S. citizen. Within weeks of the approval, Saleem Francis was granted
his immigration visa. His wife, however, was forced to wait -- without
explanation.

Saleem Francis stayed with his wife in Pakistan until his visa was about to
expire -- about a year ago -- then he came to Somerset. The Francis family
believed Naseem Francis would soon be granted her visa, but the months dragged
on.

Her case was pending in the U.S. consulate in Islamabad. Lynn Becker,
spokeswoman for Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis., had said it's not uncommon for reviews
there to take more than two years because of background-check delays and
national security concerns.

As a Christian living in a household without men, Naseem Francis felt
particularly vulnerable to danger from the violence in her region.

Feeling the urgency of getting Naseem out, her family tried to find out what was
holding up her visa. But they didn't get any answers.

Frustrated, the Francis family began seeking help from lawmakers and collecting
signatures for a petition. They contacted the media, hoping the attention would
help their cause.

On June 17, one day before Jessica Francis was set to fly to Washington, D.C.,
to meet with U.S. senators Amy Klobuchar and Russ Feingold, the family got word:
The visa had been approved.

When Naseem Francis heard, she "cried with happiness and sadness at the same
time ... and then prayed and thanked God that it came true," she said, her son
Bernard Francis translating.

"She's very glad that now she's in America, where she is a safe and free
person," he said.

Naseem Francis arrived in Somerset on July 28.

But there is still worry for remaining relatives in Pakistan. Just this weekend,
the Francis family watched news reports of a mob that attacked a Christian
community and killed eight people in the same province where Naseem Francis had
been living.

"This is what we were worried about," Jessica Francis said.

Still, the family is happy to have Naseem home and the community's support
behind them.

"We didn't expect to be embraced as much as we were," Jessica Francis said.
"What we're deeply impressed by is how much the community rallied around us ...
and how much of a difference that ended up making."

Andy Rathbun can be reached at 651-228-2121.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended

When that Thin Blue Line wears through, we are all in big trouble

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Ruben Rosario; News; Columnists

LENGTH: 1114 words


Dagoberto Rodriguez-Cardona has some freaking nerve, asking for his money back.

He's a 29-year-old illegal immigrant from El Progresso, Honduras, who faces
deportation.

Yet, he sued and still wants back the $4,500 he says members of the now-defunct
Metro Gang Strike Force took from him at the Minneapolis impound lot more than a
year ago.

Really? Is this guy bonkers? Who does he think he is? He has no rights. He and
his ilk are responsible for virtually every ill that has befallen our great
nation, doncha know -- from spiraling health care costs to unemployment to crime
to swine flu to the "browning" of America. Too bad they didn't work with Bernie
Madoff on Wall Street, or we would have pinned the financial scandal on them,
too.

"You are like cucarachas invading our country," a federal Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agent allegedly told Rodriguez-Cardona during the July 31,
2008, incident.

I'm sure there are folks right now vigorously nodding their heads in agreement.

Yet, what happened to him and six others that midsummer night is shaping up to
be the biggest police corruption scandal in the Twin Cities in recent memory.

The litany of woes surrounding the gang unit -- ranging from lax supervision and
sloppy paperwork to allegations of police misconduct and criminal activity --
has dominated the news in recent weeks.

A hearing was held Wednesday at the state Capitol on a state-commissioned report
outlining alleged crimes that are now the focus of an FBI probe.

The Rodriguez-Cardona case epitomizes the multitude of miscues that led to the
demise of a once highly regarded law enforcement strategy.

"The facts of this case are deeply troubling," wrote the report's investigators,
former federal prosecutor Andrew Luger and retired 28-year FBI veteran John
Egelhof.

Rodriguez-Cardona showed up at the impound lot to get his girlfriend's car after
a routine parking infraction.

He earlier had cashed a check for $4,500 in connection with a residential
painting/remodeling project. Three co-workers, all in paint-stained clothes,
went with him.

At the lot, a family of strangers, also Latino, approached them about joining a
local church.

"We did not want to be rude," Rodriguez-Cardona said this week. "They were
talking to us about the Lord for about five minutes when they showed up." He was
referring to five plainclothes members of the gang strike force.

Luger's report notes that impound-lot employees were instructed to tip off
strike force members when "Mexicans" showed up to reclaim cars.

Members of both families, without any probable cause, it seems, were searched
and questioned. One officer went through Rodriguez-Cardona's pockets and pulled
out more than $4,000 in cash.

"Oh, money," the cop said.

Rodriguez-Cardona protested that the cash was payment for legitimate work and
that he could prove it with receipts.

The police laughed.

A Minneapolis police K-9 squad car showed up minutes later. Cops and dog
searched not only the girlfriend's car but also the car Rodriguez-Cardona
borrowed to get to the lot. No drugs were found.

None of those bagged that night had gang ties. Rodriguez-Cardona had no arrests,
not even a parking ticket. Other than an acknowledgment that a little more than
$4,000 was seized, Luger's report found minimal information on the encounter in
strike force records. No crime was alleged or prosecuted against those arrested
and held in custody that night.

Yet, police contacted federal immigration officials in violation of a
Minneapolis ordinance that prohibits officers from doing so unless a crime has
been committed.

In their report, Luger and Egelhof suggest this was an improper search and
seizure in violation of the Constitution.

If true, this is the stuff our Founding Fathers went to war against.

Rodriguez-Cardona's common-law wife posted the $8,000 bail -- much of it
collected from family and friends -- to allow the father of the couple's now
9-month-old child, Derrick Alberto, to get out of jail pending deportation.

But he would not stay quiet.

"My client has shown incredible, raw courage in coming forward about this," said
attorney Phil Fishman, who said his office has received a flood of calls from
other alleged victims of gang unit rip-offs.

Rodriguez-Cardona fears he will be harmed or even killed.

The FBI has yet to show him pictures of strike force members, particularly ones
he might be able to identify.

That may be strange, unless ex-strike force members have rolled on colleagues.

Fishman said he hopes his client's cooperation will lead to a waiver of his
deportation on grounds he is a potential government witness as well as an
alleged crime victim. That remains to be seen.

But the one thing lacking in Wednesday's legislative hearing was testimony of
someone like Rodriguez-Cardona. He would have driven home the human experience
of someone placed in handcuffs in front of a sobbing relative and stripped of
money earned by the sweat of his brow. Throw in the fact that his alleged
muggers were officers of the law.

Rodriguez-Cardona's situation touched indirectly on the spirit of the
emotionally charged Mass on Wednesday morning at Sacred Heart Catholic Church on
St. Paul's East Side, just six hours before the Capitol hearing.

The service was to commemorate the fatal shootings of St. Paul police officers
Ron Ryan Jr. and Tim Jones -- hours apart on Aug. 26, 1994 -- by a deranged
drifter, who is serving a life sentence. Ryan was killed in the church's parking
lot.

The church's pastor, Eugene Michel, said the Mass drew more than 100 people,
many of them uniformed St. Paul cops.

"We must always remember the sacrifices of the majority of officers who put
their lives on the line each day for us," Michel told me. He noted his
parishioners are mostly South American immigrants not unlike Rodriguez-Cardona
or those corralled that night last year.

"There is never a good reason for a police officer to cross that line, because
it's really hard to go back," said Michel, who provided a brief account of how
the church welcomed mostly German-speaking immigrants more than a century ago,
regardless of status.

He noted that the Mass has been held each year since the 1994 killing at the
request of Ryan's father, Ron Ryan, the longtime strike force commander until he
retired in October.

Despite his experience with officers under Ryan's command, Rodriguez-Cardona
retains great respect for American law enforcement.

"Most of them I know are good," he told me. "Back home in Honduras, they shake
you down sometimes for no reason.

"They're corrupt. But I never thought that this would happen here. But I earned
that money. I don't do drugs. I'm not in a gang. It's not right."

Rubén Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 2009



CORRECTION: A story Thursday should have identified Dagoberto
Rodriguez-Cardona's hometown as El Progresso in Honduras.

GRAPHIC: Dagoberto Rodriguez-Cardona, 29, an illegal immigrant from Honduras,
says Metro Gang Strike Force officers illegally seized his $4,500 and improperly
reported him to immigration officials. He now faces deportation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

CNN's Latino special avoids Dobbs

BYLINE: By David Bauder Associted Press

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 715 words


NEW YORK -- CNN is airing a four-hour special on Latinos in America this week
that ignores its own commentator Lou Dobbs, whose persistent advocacy against
illegal immigration has angered many Hispanics.

Some activists have started an anti-Dobbs petition drive, and an advocacy
group's effort to criticize Dobbs within the documentary was turned down by CNN.
This week's special has left many Latinos with mixed feelings: proud that CNN
talks about issues important to them but disappointed the network isn't
addressing Dobbs' position head-on.

The "Latino in America" documentary airs in two parts today and Thursday at 9
p.m. EDT, repeated at midnight.

"Lou Dobbs is the gigantic anti-immigration elephant in the room at CNN," said
Roberto Lovato, who is helping to organize the petition drive. "Rather than
address him, they decided to just avoid the issue."

Mark Nelson, vice president and senior executive producer for CNN's documentary
unit, said the special is about Latinos, not Dobbs. Just because Dobbs talks
about the issue on his weeknight CNN show, it doesn't mean that anyone else on
the network who reports on immigration has to talk about Dobbs, he said.

If people feel that the topic has been avoided, "they should do that documentary
then," he said. "This is the documentary we did."

"A lot of things aren't in," said the program's host, Soledad O'Brien. "It's
only four hours, and we're talking about 51 million people."

CNN's management had nothing to do with that editorial decision, she said.

The documentary does discuss immigration and discrimination issues, most notably
in the story of an illegal immigrant from Mexico killed by white high school
students in Shenandoah, Pa., allegedly because of his ethnicity.

Dobbs has said he's not singling out an ethnic group for criticism. But his
strong crusade for tightening the nation's southern borders and punishing
illegal aliens has made many Latinos dislike him, particularly when he
concentrates upon social ills brought on by immigrants. Fox News Channel's
Geraldo Rivera said Dobbs "has done more to slander Latin people in America than
any other single human being."

Calls to Dobbs for comment were not immediately returned.

Melissa Morales, a Stanford University graduate who was born in the United
States but grew up mostly in the Mexican border town of Juarez, said she's
pleased CNN is airing the documentary and hopes as many people as possible will
watch it.

But Morales, who works at a nonprofit group promoting emerging women leaders,
said CNN is trying to have it both ways by airing a nuanced view of the Latino
community at the same time it provides a nightly platform for Dobbs.

"Lou Dobbs creates a venomous atmosphere for all immigrants, particularly
Latinos," she said. "His sources are questionable at best, unquestionably racist
at worst."

Dobbs, on his radio show, has called Lovato delusional and "one of my fleas."

"You're trying to deny my rights while turning over this country to those who
have no regard for our laws, our rules, our customs, the legal foundation of our
country," he said.

Dobbs is a longtime CNN employee and was one of the nation's leading financial
journalists before turning his program in a more opinionated direction. He got
into some trouble with his bosses this summer by lingering on questions about
whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States, after CNN
reporters were satisfied with proof that he had.

Lovato is behind Bastadobbs.com , an online petition drive that seeks to get
Dobbs taken off CNN. Basta is Spanish -- and Italian -- for "stop" or "enough."

The liberal advocacy group Media Matters said it had tried to buy time for a
30-second ad denouncing Dobbs during the "Latino in America" special, but the
network refused. CNN turned away a similar anti-Dobbs ad this summer, because it
wasn't obligated to sell time to organizations looking to attack CNN or its
personalities.

Groups often know this in advance but try anyway, figuring their ad would get
more attention for being rejected than it would if it actually ran.

The "Latino in America" documentary, which has an accompanying book by O'Brien
and producer Rose Arce, is an outgrowth of CNN's two "Black in America"
specials. Both of those, in 2008 and this summer, drew very strong audiences for
CNN.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 30, 2009 Friday

Briefing: U.S. to scrap HIV travel/immigration ban

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 887 words


WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama said Friday the U.S. will overturn a
22-year-old travel and immigration ban against people with HIV early next year.
The order will be finalized on Monday, Obama said, completing a process begun
during the Bush administration. The U.S. has been among a dozen countries that
bar entry to travelers with visas or anyone seeking a green card based on their
HIV status. 'If we want to be the global leader in combating HIV/AIDS, we need
to act like it,' Obama said at the White House before signing a bill to extend
the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program. Begun in 1990, the program provides medical
care, medication and support services to about half a million people, most of
them low-income. The bill is named for an Indiana teenager who contracted AIDS
through a blood transfusion at age 13. White went on to fight AIDS-related
discrimination against him and others like him and help educate the country
about the disease. He died in April 1990 at the age of 18. Zelaya says accord
returns him to job

TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras -- Deposed President Manuel Zelaya and his opponents have
agreed to a U.S.-brokered deal that he said will return him to power four months
after a coup shook faith in Latin America's young democracies. The power-sharing
agreement reached late Thursday calls for Congress to decide whether to
reinstate the leftist Zelaya. While the legislature backed his June 28 ouster,
congressional leaders have since said they won't stand in the way of an
agreement that ends Honduras' diplomatic isolation and legitimizes presidential
elections planned for Nov. 29. Assistant U.S. Secretary of State Thomas Shannon
said Friday the two sides finally made concessions after realizing the
international community wouldn't recognize the elections or restore aid without
a compromise.Prime minister named in Haiti

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- Haiti's president turned Friday to a member of his
Cabinet to replace the prime minister who was abruptly removed by the Senate in
a vote that reflects the country's deep political divisions. Jean-Max Bellerive,
the minister of planning and external cooperation, is President Rene Preval's
nominee to be Haiti's next premier, Preval said in a statement addressed to
parliament. Bellerive, an economist, has held a variety of government posts over
the past decade, including as an official in the administration of President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was forced from office in a violent rebellion in
2004. Bellerive, in Preval's government, has played a major role in coordinating
and courting investment and foreign aid for the country.King's daughter will
head SCLC

ATLANTA -- The Rev. Bernice King was named Friday as the first woman to head the
civil rights organization co-founded by her father, the Rev. Martin Luther King
Jr. Southern Christian Leadership Conference Interim President Byron Clay called
King and said she accepted the position. "She is excited," Clay told reporters.
"I am excited. The nation will be excited." The other candidate was Judge
Wendell Griffen of Little Rock, Ark. He was the first black attorney to work for
a major Arkansas law firm and is an ordained minister and pastor of New
Millennium Church.Dobson giving up last of ties to group

DENVER -- James Dobson, the voice of conservative Christian group Focus on the
Family, will no longer host its flagship radio broadcast and is cutting formal
ties with the organization that he founded more than 30 years ago, the
evangelical group said Friday. Dobson, 73, and the board of directors both
agreed about the moves, which will go into effect at the end of February,
ministry officials said. The decision to part ways was amicable and long
anticipated, said Gary Schneeberger, spokesman for the Colorado Springs-based
group. Dobson built the organization into an influential force, both as a
political powerhouse and provider of conservative family and moral advice. He
has expressed his desire for a transition of leadership to the younger
generation.9 feared lost after midair collision

SAN DIEGO -- Investigators were trying Friday to determine why a Coast Guard
airplane on a nighttime search for a missing boater collided with one of four
Marine Corps helicopters flying in formation to deliver troops to a training
exercise on a military island off Southern California. All seven people aboard
the C-130 and the two-person crew of the Marine Corps AH-1W Super Cobra
helicopter remained missing as a search of a 644-square-mile area focused on a
debris field about 50 miles off the San Diego coast.Schwarzenegger: 'F.U.' a
coincidence

WASHINGTON -- It may be highly improbable mathematically, but California Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger said Friday that the encoded profanity in one of his veto
letters was a "wild coincidence." Speaking at the White House, the Republican
governor said: "That was a total coincidence. It was one of those wild
coincidences." The first letter in seven lines of the message, when read from
top to bottom, combine to spell out "F-- you." Schwarzenegger sent the letter to
an Assemblyman who earlier had told the governor to "kiss my gay a--." One
mathematician said the odds of the letters appearing in proper order in seven
consecutive lines to spell out the profanity was one in 10 million.

-- Associated Press, McClatchy Newspapers

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            November 22, 2009 Sunday

Catholic bishops flexed muscles on abortion restrictions in health care bill,
but will they do so on immigration?

BYLINE: By Jeanne Cummings POLITICO

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News

LENGTH: 1384 words


Emboldened by their success in inserting restrictive abortion language into the
House health care bill, Roman Catholic bishops say they've found a lobbying
model that could provide them a louder voice in future policy debates.

"It was a good example of how we, as a conference, can work together to have a
positive influence on legislation," Bishop William Murphy, head of the domestic
justice and human development committee of the U.S. Conference of Bishops, told
the Catholic News Service last week.

Success in the House came after the church ran a classic lobbying operation:
deploying paid staff to Capitol Hill, tapping influential bishops to make
private appeals to key congressional leaders and distributing bulletin inserts
to 19,000 parishes with easy instructions -- and sample wording -- for sending a
message to local representatives.

But it remains to be seen if the bishops can have the same results as the
broader health bill moves forward or on more complex life issues such as
embryonic stem cell research.

In the health care debate, for instance, the bishops have consistently
identified three priority areas: abortion, religious conscience clauses and
immigrant rights.

"I don't think the Catholics in the pews will get quite as focused on a message
of immigrants as they have been on the question of abortion," said Stephen
Schneck, a professor of politics at The Catholic University of America. "And I'm
not convinced the church leaders are willing to expend the political capital
with those Catholics in order to promote the cause."

Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Pa., a Catholic who participated in the intense negotiations
over the final abortion language, said the pressure from the church to ease
restrictions on immigrants was "not even close" to the abortion language tug of
war.

The church's strategic decisions are significant because -- with Catholics
representing, at 30 percent, the largest single religious group among members of
Congress -- it can gain access across party lines. While pressuring Democratic
leaders to adjust the abortion coverage language earlier this month, the bishops
simultaneously contacted House Republican leaders and warned them against using
procedural tactics to torpedo any amendment.

The church's engagement also could help scramble some long-held partisan
divides, given that its policy platform is more diverse than traditional Capitol
Hill religious players -- evangelicals on the right and Protestant groups such
as the National Council of Churches on the left.

While taking conservative stands on life issues, the Catholic bishops have also
allied themselves with advocates for labor rights and the poor because of the
church's traditional advocacy for the downtrodden. One reason the bishops could
gain entry into the health care debate is the church's vast array of clinics and
hospitals that often serve those in most need, including legal and illegal
immigrants.

But the church's liberal positions on many social issues and strong
anti-abortion stance have put it at odds with politicians who hold more
traditionally liberal or conservative views. No dispute has been more
contentious than the one with Rep. Patrick Kennedy, D-R.I., nephew of the
nation's only Catholic president, John F. Kennedy, and a supporter of abortion
rights.

In an interview with The Providence Journal on Friday, Kennedy said that
Providence Bishop Thomas J. Tobin has forbidden him from receiving Communion
because of his advocacy of abortion rights. As the health care debate has
intensified, Kennedy has called into question the anti-abortion credentials of
the churchmen, and Tobin has responded that the bishops are firmly committed to
health care reform but not without the abortion provision.

Tobin said in a statement Sunday that he "has never addressed matters relative
to public officials receiving Holy Communion with pastors of the diocese,"
according to The Associated Press. An official familiar with the bishop
conference's strategic positioning on health care said the different engagement
levels on abortion and the treatment of immigrants can be explained by the
stakes in each debate.

The bishops argued that without the revisions they supported, the health care
measure's language on abortion insurance coverage would erode a three-decade-old
ban on the use of taxpayer money to pay for the procedure. In other words, they
feared losing ground on a hard-fought issue. On immigration, however, they are
more aligned with the Democratic majorities in the House and Senate in seeking
more equitable treatment for immigrants, both legal and illegal. That makes both
incremental and significant gains more possible.

For instance, the church worked behind the scenes to bolster the argument of
House Hispanic members who vowed to block reform if it didn't allow undocumented
workers to use their own money to buy insurance on new exchanges.

Adding the provision would make the nation healthier and create another class of
generally younger and healthier insurance customers, which could reduce costs
for everyone, said Kevin Appleby, director of the conference's Office of
Migration Policy and Public Affairs.

"Is that not the point of health care reform?" asked Appleby. The argument --
and legislative tactic -- worked, and the language was included in the House
bill.

"In this case, wise policy trumped politics," Appleby said in an interview with
POLITICO.

As the debate moves to the Senate, the terrain is more difficult. The Senate
bill doesn't include similar language allowing illegal immigrants to buy private
insurance, and it's tougher on legal immigrants, as well, requiring proof of
legal status before they can obtain tax subsidies to buy insurance.

President Barack Obama has signaled support for the Senate language. But thus
far, the church has not taken up the cause of undocumented workers in the
Senate, suggesting that issue will wait for the final negotiations.

The church is working to make other gains on behalf of immigrants during the
upcoming Senate deliberations. It's urging the Senate to ease a five-year
waiting period for legal immigrants to gain access to Medicaid -- a provision
that is not in the House bill.

The ultimate test of the church's lobbying muscle and its commitment to both the
abortion and immigrant issues will come after a bill has passed the Senate and
final language is hashed out among the House, the Senate and the White House.

Church leaders have made it clear they will go to the mat on the abortion
provision. In a statement issued last week, Cardinal Francis George, conference
president, called the House amendment an "essential step" that honored
"President Obama's commitment to the Congress and the nation that health care
reform would not become a vehicle for expanding abortion funding or mandates."

George also reiterated the church's commitment to the provisions aimed at
immigrants, saying those families must "be treated fairly and not lose the
health care coverage that they now have."

Schneck predicts a lopsided effort by the church. "Can we expect them to go as
full bore on immigration? My guess is no," he said. But, Schneck added, that
also could reflect the church's recognition of its limits rather than a lack of
commitment. "I think they understand the political system involves some degree
of give and take. So they will push harder on abortion than immigration, but
they will continue to push on behalf of immigrants," he said.

What's also unclear is how the church will respond to the political fallout
prompted by its work. In his missive, George profusely thanked the House members
who backed the abortion insurance coverage amendment, many of whom risked
alienating female supporters.

But the treatment of immigrants is a much more controversial issue, and support
for pro-immigrant measures could easily become fodder for Republicans in next
year's midterms.

In fact, that political worry, some say, is what is driving White House
reluctance to embrace some pro-immigrant provisions. So one unanswered question
is whether the church will criticize -- by name -- those Republican and
Democratic lawmakers who don't stand with it on the issue of immigrants, much as
some bishops, including Tobin, have been willing to criticize by name those
lawmakers who opposed the abortion coverage amendment.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday

Time for Dinner: Ample immigrant influence is showing up in soup bowls

BYLINE: By Dianna Marder Philadelphia Inquirer

SECTION: FOOD

LENGTH: 1496 words


From the Aztecs comes a chicken vegetable soup with poblano chiles and chayote
squash; from Paraguay there's bori-bori, a beef broth and dumpling soup; from
the Caribbean there's callaloo, in which the greens of taro root are cooked with
okra and bacon.

The book cover says soup, but inside, the "Culinary Institute of America's the
New Book of Soups" (Lebhar-Friedman Books, 2009) says so much more.

It says many Americans in this land of immigrants have a taste for foods of
cultures beyond their own   and most of these stews and chowders are well within
our reach as home cooks.

The collection of recipes is presented as American, not international: ethnic
soups from immigrants old and new, meant to warm body and soul. At a time when
every other cookbook seems to rely on one gimmick or another, this subtle
message of inclusion is especially enticing.

What we think of as traditional American favorites are still included in this
revised edition: minestrone, mushroom barley, chili, cream of tomato and classic
lentil soup.

But instead of putting all the international soups in a separate chapter, the
book is divided into sections on broths, hearty soups, stews, cream soups,
pureed soups, bisques and chowders, cold soups, and accompaniments, with world
flavors included in each.

There's a recipe for mulligatawny, which reflects the British colonization of
India; a Tunisian chickpea soup called leblebi; and a Moroccan vegetable stew
that is a meal in itself.

Jambalaya, etouffee, lamb korma   you can spend the rest of winter roaming the
culinary globe.

You'll find avgolemono, the traditional Greek egg and lemon soup that is so
surprisingly simple and appealing it has become my new go-to soup. And at the
other end of the convenience-and-capability spectrum is feijoada, a stew rich in
ham hocks, pig's foot and chorizo that takes three days to prepare.

Since I favor vegetarian bisques, I decided to step outside my comfort zone with
the Catalan Beef Stew. Beef cut from the shoulder is at the heart of the Spanish
dish made all the more aromatic with julienne orange peels.

As a soup maker, have you ever wondered how many scallions to buy in order to
get one cup chopped? The answer to that and other shopping dilemmas is in a
helpful chapter.

Alongside directions for making pistou and popovers are recipes for
accompaniments like harissa, a spicy-hot Tunisian condiment, and fried shallots,
a quick, crispy garnish for hearty soups. Fried shallots are, essentially, a
more elegant, homemade version of those fried onion rings in a can. And they
taste great on soto ayam, an Indonesian chicken noodle soup with cellophane
noodles and lemongrass.

Don't let the lemongrass scare you; it's quickly becoming an all-American
ingredient. Stalks of fresh lemongrass are available in ethnic supermarkets.

To clean them, work from the base of the stalk, removing the tough outer peel
and wash away underlying grit. Then, chop and use the bottom 4 to 5 tender
inches.

The finished soto ayam is a delicately scented chicken soup with a rich flavor
that is distinctly different from what we think of as Jewish chicken soup.

Soto ayam is not a quick recipe, but it is easy and stores well. When you serve
this soup on a cold winter's night, you'll think the time well spent.

And what would a book from the CIA be if not instructive? So, for example, a
recipe for Belgian cream of chicken soup called waterzooi instructs in the use
of a thickening "liaison," a mixture of egg yolks and cream added to hot liquid
using a process called "tempering." It's not a complicated step, but one that
makes the difference between a good home cook and a great one.

And once you master it, you can also use it to make billi bi, a French cream of
mussel soup.

Julia Child would be proud.



CATALAN BEEF STEW

Makes 4 servings.

1 tablespoon olive oil

5 slices bacon, thick-cut, diced

2 pounds boneless beef chuck or bottom round, cut into 2-inch pieces

Salt and freshly ground black pepper, as needed

2 cups chopped yellow onion

2 cups red wine

2 tablespoons orange peel julienne

2 bay leaves

2 teaspoons minced garlic

2 parsley sprigs, minced

1 cup Spanish black olives, pitted

To crisp bacon: Heat oil in casserole or Dutch oven over medium high heat until
it shimmers. Add bacon. Saute for 5 minutes or until crisp and brown. Using
slotted spoon, transfer bacon to bowl, letting oil drain back into casserole.

To sear beef: Return casserole to heat. Add more oil. Heat until it shimmers.
Season beef generously with salt and pepper. Add beef (working in batches to
avoid crowding pan). Sear on all sides for 8 minutes or until brown. Using
slotted spoon, transfer beef to bowl with bacon, letting oil drain back into
casserole.

To caramelize onions: Add onion to casserole. Saute, stirring occasionally, for
25 to 30 minutes or until deeply caramelized.

To assemble stew: Return beef and bacon to casserole. Add red wine, orange peel,
bay leaves, garlic and parsley. Bring to a boil. Immediately reduce heat to
gentle simmer. Season stew to taste with salt and pepper throughout cooking
time. Simmer stew, covered, for 2 hours or until beef is nearly tender. Add
olives. Simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours or until beef is fork-tender.

To serve: Ladle into heated bowls.

Nutrition information: One serving provides 914 calories, 52 grams protein, 14
grams carbohydrates, 4 grams sugar, 62 grams fat, 177 milligrams cholesterol,
728 milligrams sodium, 2 grams dietary fiber.



AVGOLEMONO (GREEK EGG AND LEMON SOUP)

Makes 8 servings.

6 cups chicken broth

1/3 cup long-grain white rice

4 eggs, separated

Salt and white pepper, to taste

Freshly squeezed lemon juice, as needed

To cook rice: In soup pot, bring broth to a simmer. Add rice. Cook for 15
minutes or until tender.

To prepare eggs: In large bowl, whip egg yolks until thickened. In another bowl,
whip egg whites to soft peaks. Fold whites into yolks. Add egg mixture to
simmering broth, whipping constantly. (Note: Soup will become frothy and thick.)

To serve: Season to taste with salt, white pepper and lemon juice. Serve in
heated bowls.

Nutrition information: One serving provides 80 calories, 4 grams protein, 7
grams carbohydrates, trace sugar, 4 grams fat, 106 milligrams cholesterol, 725
milligrams sodium, trace dietary fiber.



SOTO AYAM (INDONESIAN CHICKEN, NOODLE AND POTATO SOUP)

Makes 8 servings.

Soup:

3-pound chicken

2 teaspoons salt

1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil

4 shallots, chopped

2 stalks fresh lemongrass, bottom 4 or 5 inches only, crushed

1 garlic clove, crushed

1-inch slice fresh ginger, crushed

1/2 teaspoon crushed black peppercorns

1/4 teaspoon turmeric

6 cups chicken broth

1 1/4 cups diced yellow or white potatoes

1 ounce dried mung bean threads (cellophane noodles)

2 tablespoons soy sauce

1/2 tablespoon red chile or hot bean paste

1/2 teaspoon sugar

4 scallions, thinly sliced

2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped

1 1/2 celery stalks, diced

Fried shallots:

2 shallots

1/2 cup all-purpose flour

Salt to taste

Cayenne pepper to taste (optional)

1/2 cup milk

2 cups vegetable oil or as needed for frying

Garnish:

1 lemon, cut into wedges

To prepare chicken: Remove giblets from chicken. Discard or save liver for
another use. Wash chicken. Rub with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Set aside.

To make shallot mixture: In skillet, heat oil over high heat. Add chopped
shallots, lemongrass, garlic, ginger, black pepper and turmeric. Cook, stirring
con-stantly, for 30 seconds or until aromatic. Remove from heat.

To cook chicken: In soup pot, combine broth, remaining 1 1/2 teaspoons salt,
chicken, giblets and shallot mixture. Bring to a simmer. Cook for 45 minutes or
until chicken is cooked through and tender. (Note: Skim often to remove foam
that rises to surface.) Remove chicken from broth. Cool enough to handle. Remove
bones from chicken. Return bones to broth. Simmer for 1 hour, skimming as
needed. Dice chicken meat. Set aside.

To cook potatoes: Place potatoes in saucepan. Cover with cold water. Bring to a
simmer. Cook for 20 minutes or until tender. Drain. Spread in single layer to
cool.

To prepare bean threads: Soak bean threads in hot water to cover for 5 minutes
or until tender. Rinse. Separate strands under cool running water. Chop into
2-inch pieces. Set aside.

To make fried shallots: Peel and slice shallots into 1/8-inch-thick rings.
Separate rings. Mix flour, salt and cayenne. Dip shallots into milk. Strain or
use slotted spoon to remove. Dredge shallots in flour mix. Fry in 325-degree oil
for 5 minutes or until golden. Drain on paper towels. Season to taste with salt.
Set aside

To finish soup: Strain broth through fine sieve. Mix soy sauce, chile paste and
sugar. Stir into broth. Add diced chicken, cooked potatoes, bean threads,
scallions, chopped eggs and celery. Bring to a simmer.

To serve: Ladle soup into heated bowls. Garnish with fried shallots. Pass lemon
wedges on side.

Nutrition information: One serving provides 364 calories, 45 grams protein, 15
grams carbohydrates, 2 grams sugar, 13 grams fat, 202 milligrams cholesterol,
1,644 milligrams sodium, 1 gram dietary fiber.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday

Ex-Agriprocessors official receives lesser sentence

BYLINE: By Trish Mehaffey Cedar Rapids Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 461 words


CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -- A former Agriprocessors human resources manager will spend
only one year and one day in prison for immigration charges because a federal
judge didn't follow the guidelines based on "the unusual facts and
circumstances" of the case.

U.S. District Chief Judge Linda Reade said Thursday she felt fortunate she was
the trial judge in the fraud case of former Agriprocessors Vice President Sholom
Rubashkin because it helped her understand what part Elizabeth Billmeyer played
in hiring illegal immigrants at the Postville meatpacking plant.

Billmeyer, 48, of Postville, pleaded guilty in April to conspiracy to harbor
undocumented workers for financial gain and knowingly accepting forged or
counterfeited resident immigrant cards. Billmeyer should have received a 15- to
21-month prison term according to sentencing guidelines but Reade said she was
using discretion based on her insight of the entire case, which many judges
don't have the opportunity to see when so many co-conspirators and convictions
are involved. Judges rarely vary from sentencing guidelines.

The government argued for an enhancement, which could have added years to
Billmeyer's sentence, for an abuse of a position of trust, but Reade denied it.

U.S. Assistant Attorney Pete Deegan said identification forms that are part of
job applications were Billmeyer's responsibility. It was her job to ensure the
work force was authorized to work.

Her position put her in a position of private trust as the human resources
manager, he said.

Charlene Yaneza, Billmeyer's attorney from Chicago, said the abuse enhancement
is tailored for someone in a high level management position which is intended to
punish "insiders." Billmeyer may have had the management title but she was
stripped of her authority, she said.

Rubashkin and others concealed an entire payroll system from her with illegal
workers by obtaining false documents from them after hours or when she was out
of town, she said.

Reade said according to evidence at the Rubashkin trial and information in the
pre-sentencing report, the business at Agriprocessors was frustrating for
Billmeyer, trying to "patch things up" while Rubashkin and others did things
behind her back. But Reade also said Billmeyer made mistakes and should have
done more to prevent illegal immigration practices, she said.

Billmeyer apologized to the court, her family and the people of Iowa.

"I've never committed a crime before and won't again. I know I have to go to
jail but I hope it can be a shorter sentence," she said.

Billmeyer's children, husband and her parents in court Thursday started crying
during the hearing and more joined in after Reade read her sentence.

Many friends and family members also submitted letters of support before the
hearing.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

Minnesota arrests are part of national drive targeting gangs

BYLINE: By Rhoda Fukushima rgfukushima@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Minnesota-Twin Cities; West Metro

LENGTH: 229 words


Nine gang members and 14 gang associates in Minneapolis and nearby communities
were arrested in a nationwide program focusing on gangs with ties to
drug-trafficking organizations, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
said today.

The arrests were part of Project Big Freeze, which netted 476 gang members,
associates and other criminals in 83 cities. Agents seized 47 firearms as part
of the operation.

In Minnesota, agents also arrested three individuals for administrative
immigration violations, for a total of 26 arrests.

The people arrested had affiliations with the Sure?o 13, Bishops, Gangster
Disciples; 18th Street, Latin Kings and the Rough Tough Somali Crips gangs,
according to Tim Counts, public affairs officer for ICE in Minnesota.

The arrests took place in Minneapolis, Brooklyn Park, Burnsville, Farmington,
Howard Lake, New Hope, Richfield and Shakopee.

Of the 476 arrests, 207 were arrested for criminal offenses and face prosecution
for various federal and state crimes including narcotics smuggling and
distribution, firearms violations, identity theft, aggravated assault,
obstruction, entry without inspection and re-entry after deportation. Of those
arrested, 151 were U.S. citizens and 366 were foreign nationals and face
deportation either now or when their criminal prosecution is complete.

This report includes information from the Associated Press.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday

23 arrested in Twin Cities in gang/drug probe

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 217 words


Nine gang members and 14 gang associates in Minneapolis and nearby communities
were arrested in a nationwide program focusing on gangs with ties to
drug-trafficking organizations, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
said Wednesday.

The arrests were part of Project Big Freeze, which netted 476 gang members,
associates and other criminals in 83 cities. Agents seized 47 firearms as part
of the operation.

In Minnesota, agents also arrested three individuals for administrative
immigration violations.

The people arrested had affiliations with the Sure?o 13, Bishops, Gangster
Disciples, 18th Street, Latin Kings and the Rough Tough Somali Crips gangs,
according to Tim Counts, ICE spokesman in Minnesota.

The arrests took place in Minneapolis, Brooklyn Park, Burnsville, Farmington,
Howard Lake, New Hope, Richfield and Shakopee.

Of the 476 arrests, 207 were arrested for criminal offenses and face prosecution
for various federal and state crimes including narcotics smuggling and
distribution, firearms violations, identity theft, aggravated assault,
obstruction, entry without inspection and re-entry after deportation. Of those
arrested, 151 were U.S. citizens and 366 were foreign nationals and face
deportation either now or when their criminal prosecution is complete.

-- Staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Immigration crackdown nets 49 in Wisconsin

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 128 words


Federal immigration officials said they've arrested 49 people in central and
western Wisconsin during a weeklong crackdown.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, or ICE, said it targeted illegal
immigrants with criminal records, previously deported individuals and those with
outstanding deportation orders. ICE said the arrests were made beginning Feb. 18
in 12 Wisconsin counties.

Of the 49 taken into custody, 20 were arrested based on prior criminal
histories, including drug possession.

Federal agents said the 49 are not being criminally prosecuted but will be
processed for removal from the United States.

The counties involved are Langlade, Dunn, Monroe, Eau Claire, Marathon, Portage,
Clark, Trempealeau, Sauk, Wood, Shawano and Waupaca.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

A roundup of notable memoirs includes immigrant experiences and the effects of
war

BYLINE: Mary Ann Grossmann

SECTION: BOOKS

LENGTH: 1202 words


Memoirs keeping coming, and one of the most tender to cross my desk is Emilio
DeGrazia's "Walking on Air in a Field of Greens" (Nodin Press, $19.95). Frankly,
I hadn't expected to be interested in this book, subtitled "An Italian-American
Collage." I've enjoyed this retired Winona college professor's previous books,
including his Minnesota Book Award-winning novel "Seventeen Grams of Soul," but
I'm not very passionate about Italy. Well, DeGrazia made me interested with his
loving story about his parents, who immigrated from San Pietro, a small village
in southern Italy. He returns to his relatives' native land to decide what to do
with a some property his family owns. Weaving together his experiences at home
in Minnesota, his relatives' lives during the Depression and his time in Italy,
he writes the story of a family that has moved far from its roots but hasn't
forgotten them.

Another immigrant sojourn is told by Kitty Gogins in "My Flag Grew Stars: World
War II Refugees' Journey to America" (Kitty Gogins, $18.99), the remarkable
story of her parents' terrifying experiences as they left Hungary during World
War II. She traces the wartime sufferings of Olga Wagner and Tibor Zoltai
separately until they marry and work for a time as indentured servants in
Canada. They ended up in Minnesota, where Tibor taught in the geology department
of the University of Minnesota Institute of Technology, serving as department
chair in the 1960s. The couple bought and renovated a mansion on Summit Avenue
that has been an art school and a reception house.

Gogins' well-written book reminds us that her parents' generation was, indeed,
the greatest for its courage, sacrifice and willingness to start over with
nothing in America. (For ordering information, visit kgo gins@mindspring.com)

The Vietnam War is brought to vivid and sad life in Tom van Hees' memoir "Life
Interrupted by War" (PublishAmerica, $29.95).

Van Hees, who won two Purple Hearts and spends his summers in Hinckley, was a
17-year-old from California when he joined the Marines and served as a
machine-gunner in Vietnam. "This book tells the good and bad. It's funny, it's
sad and it tells of situations that even the person who has not been in the
military can understand," he writes.

In one way, van Hees' experiences of facing death and becoming 100 percent
disabled are no different from other veterans' experiences. But he writes simply
and clearly. He admits that if his sons were sent to war, he would pay their
tuition to the University of Toronto. "Did we really accomplish anything in
those twelve years?" he writes. "No. If politics and big money corruption had
not been such a large factor in the running of the war, would the outcome have
been different? Most certainly." (Ordering information is at publishamerica.net
.)

Now we are fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to which fathers and mothers
have been deployed. They leave behind thousands of confused, sometimes depressed
and angry children. "My Story: Blogs by Four Military Teens" by Michelle D.
Sherman and (St. Paulite) DeAnne M. Sherman (Beaver's Pond Press, $12.95) offers
help to these families.

This mother-daughter writing team also wrote "Finding My Way: A Teen's Guide to
Living With a Parent Who Has Experienced Trauma." Michelle, the mom, is a
clinical psychologist and director of the Family Mental Health Program at
Oklahoma City Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

Their book packs lots of information for kids whose parents are deployed or have
just returned. It consists of brief blog entries written by fictional teens
two boys, two girls   who are affected differently by their parents' absence.

One girl misses her mom, who's in Iraq, but fills her days with friends and
school activities. One boy blogs about how his dad, back from Iraq, "isn't the
same. He gets mad over the stupidest things and spends most of his time in his
bedroom or in front of the computer." The other boy deals with his father being
wounded in Iraq, and the second girl is facing the trauma of her parents'
divorce. Each chapter ends with "Something to Think About" that will help kids
understand what's going on with veterans and how they can cope as their moms and
dads try to reintegrate into daily living. With so many Minnesota National Guard
members coming home, this is a timely book. (To order, call 800-901-3480 or
visit SeedsofHope Books.com .)

Book critic Mary Ann Grossmann can be reached at mgrossmann@pioneerpress.com or
651-228-5574.

TIMELY TRIO

Nominees for Minnesota Book Awards have been announced, and here are three
nonfiction finalists we haven't mentioned.

Competing in the Minnesota category are "Minneapolis in the Twentieth Century:
The Growth of an American City" by Iric Nathanson (Minnesota Historical Society
Press, $27.95) and "Honor Bright: A Century of Scouting in Northern Star
Council" by Dave Kenney (North Star Council; hardcover $95, paperback $29.95).

Readers who like clearly written history that doesn't skirt controversy will
appreciate Nathanson's taut 218-page look at the Mill City. His story moves from
the early 19th century, when leaders were looking for government structure,
through suppression of the unions and strikes, political scandals, the
demolishment of some grand old buildings in the 1960s in the name of urban
renewal, development of Nicollet Mall and Minneapolis under current Mayor R.T.
Rybak.

St. Paulites will find Nathanson's text particularly interesting because he
often contrasts the cultures of the Twin Cities. Writing about discrimination
against Jews, for instance, he points out that Minneapolis' early leaders, who
came from the East Coast, were less tolerant of Jews because they had less
contact with them. In St. Paul, German Jews who were often well-to-do when they
emigrated were more integrated into the city.

In "Honor Bright," we learn Boy Scouts alumni include nearly half the American
male population. This oversized picture book, with dozens of photos, posters and
other black-and-white and color images, celebrates the American Scouting
movement's 100th birthday. The local council traces its history to 1910, the
same year BSA was founded, making it one of the organization's oldest councils.
Organized by decades, the story moves from how the Scouts helped charitable
organizations in the Depression through camping experiences and the Scouts'
involvement in the Brooklyn Park Juvenile Diversion partnership with police in
the 1990s. It's clear scouting kept changing with the times.

Competing in the general nonfiction category is "Journeywell: A Guide to Quality
Aging" by Trish Herbert (Beaver's Pond Press, $24.95). This oversized paperback
is like a workbook. In her introduction, Herbert explains that there is no
"right way" to grow old, and her book asks questions for the reader to ponder,
providing information and suggestions that have worked well for others. She
raises such topics as "What was the best period of your life? Why?" There's lots
of white space for you to fill in answers. Some readers will feel Herbert's most
valuable chapters are those in which she offers no-nonsense, compassionate
advice about care giving, preparing for a death and coping with the loss of a
loved one.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Court to hear Olga Franco's appeal today

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 210 words


The case of Olga Franco, the illegal immigrant convicted of killing four
children in a 2008 school bus crash near Cottonwood, Minn., goes in front of a
Minnesota Appeals Court panel today.

Franco, 26, was convicted in August 2008 of four counts of criminal vehicular
homicide and 17 counts of criminal vehicular injury in the Feb. 19, 2008, crash,
which killed 9-year-old Hunter and 13-year-old Jesse Javens, Emilee Olson, 9,
and Reed Stevens, 12, near the southwestern Minnesota community. She was
sentenced to more than 12 years in prison.

Franco's attorney Manuel Guerrero will tell a three-judge panel today that there
was insufficient evidence to convict his client of gross negligence and to prove
that she was the driver of the minivan that crashed into the school bus.

He will also argue that Lyon County District Judge David W. Peterson should not
have admitted into trial Franco's hospital-room statement that she was driving,
because she was medicated and in distress.

The appeals court panel will have 90 days to issue a ruling.

Regardless of the outcome, Franco, a native of Guatemala, will likely be
deported after her incarceration because of her immigration status, according to
a spokesman with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

-- John Brewer

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

Willmar man sentenced for using false name, car crash assault that injured two
pregnant women

BYLINE: By Gretchen Schlosser West Central Tribune

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories

LENGTH: 585 words


Amner Neftali Ramos Zui, 26, of Willmar was sentenced Monday to five years of
probation and 141 days in jail and ordered to cooperate with agents from the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement after being convicted of two
felony charges of false impersonation.

Ramos Zui, also known as Luis Alfredo Perez Lopez, was also sentenced to two
years probation and 365 days in jail on a gross misdemeanor charge of criminal
vehicular homicide or operation. He was given credit for 141 days already
served, with the remaining 224 days stayed. The charge stemmed from a Dec. 20
car crash along Business 71 in Willmar that injured two pregnant women.

As part of a plea agreement in Kandiyohi County District Court, a second-degree
assault charge and four charges of criminal vehicular homicide or operation and
driving while impaired filed after the December crash were dismissed. An
additional felony charge for aggravated forgery, plus charges for giving a court
official a false name, were also dismissed.

Ramos Zui was also ordered to pay $100 in fines, refrain from alcohol
consumption, take his prescribed medications, possess no weapons and submit to a
chemical use assessment.

The impersonation and forgery charges were filed after Ramos Zui was arrested
following the crash.

He provided the Perez Lopez name to officers, signed jail forms and appeared in
court twice under the false name. The investigation revealed that U.S.
Department of State records showed the passport application in that name did not
match. Information from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
revealed Ramos Zui's real name, which was used to locate employment documents
signed at Jennie-O Turkey Store in Willmar.

An officer contacted the real Perez Lopez, who lives in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. He
said that he had no idea how Ramos Zui got his identification and that he had
never heard of him.

The assault charge was filed after police were called to a motor vehicle crash
at Business 71 and Civic Center Drive.

They arrived to find two smashed vehicles, one with rear-end damage, the other
with front-end damage. Through an interpreter, the driver of the first vehicle
said the car's occupants had left a local club and were northbound on U.S. 71
when the vehicle was struck from behind and pushed across the median into a
light pole.

Two pregnant women riding in the back seat were transported to Rice Memorial
Hospital in Willmar. Another officer responding to the scene saw Ramos Zui
walking away on the east side of the highway and stopped him to ask if he had
been involved in the crash.

Ramos Zui used the Perez Lopez alias and exhibited signs of alcohol consumption.
He admitted driving the second car involved in the crash and was arrested. A
test revealed a blood-alcohol content of 0.19.

He was interviewed through an interpreter and said he had been drinking and that
his girlfriend had left the bar with another man, which upset him. He claimed he
was looking for the vehicle she left in when his vehicle ran into the vehicle in
front of him. He said he didn't intend to strike the other vehicle.

The women were interviewed at the hospital. One woman, pregnant with Ramos Zui's
child, reported she had broken off a relationship with him and that she had
gotten a ride from the club with someone else because he was too drunk to drive.
She said he had threatened her life a week earlier.

The other pregnant woman said Ramos Zui had gotten out of his vehicle after the
crash, yelled something at them and walked away.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday

In our tolerant society, some traditions should be intolerable

BYLINE: By Amity Shlaes

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 908 words


The immigrant lives in Glendale, Arizona, and drives a Jeep Grand Cherokee. His
20-year-old daughter works at an Applebee's. When she leaves a marriage arranged
by her father and moves in with her boyfriend, her father gets angry.

He hops in his Jeep, tracks her down in a parking lot and runs her over. Then he
hightails it for Nogales, Mexico, yapping on his cell phone all the while. His
daughter later dies of her wounds in a Phoenix hospital.

These allegations -- the father pleaded not guilty to murder charges -- weren't
lodged against an illegal immigrant from Mexico. This case involves Faleh Hassan
Almaleki, an Iraqi, and his daughter, Noor. It reminds us that even as the
much-publicized debate over illegal versus legal Mexican immigrants moves
forward, there are other immigration questions the country also has to deal
with. One is how authorities -- often local or state authorities -- should
respond when Islamic fundamentalist men in the U.S. harm Muslim women in the
name of cultural or religious tradition.

The intrepid soul raising the question is Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali-born
philosopher who fled to Holland rather than submit to an arranged Muslim
marriage. In the Netherlands, Hirsi Ali learned Dutch, studied at a university
in Leiden and won a seat in parliament before she reached 40. Her rise was a
feat of enlightenment, intelligence and tolerance, a joint victory achieved by
Hirsi Ali and Dutch society.

Then came the murder by a Dutch-Moroccan Muslim of Theo van Gogh, a filmmaker
with whom Hirsi Ali was working on a documentary about abused Muslim women. Van
Gogh's murderer placed a fatwa, an order to kill, on Hirsi Ali. Half a decade
later, she still travels with bodyguards and has written a memoir about her
ordeal, "Nomad: From Islam to America," published this month.

Fundamentalist Islam as practiced in much of the world, Hirsi Ali points out,
hurts girls in three ways. Some women are forced into an arranged marriage, even
as minors, and face possible death if they refuse. They are often pulled from
schools and deprived of secular education. And they are subjected to the abusive
practice of genital circumcision.

The procedure isn't comparable to male circumcision. It's mutilation. The
clitoris is cut, the inner labia are cut and, in millions of cases, the opening
of the vagina is sewn together to ensure chastity.

"Virginity is the obsession, the neurosis of Islam," Hirsi Ali wrote in "Nomad."
The victim of such mutilation as a child, she has established the AHA Foundation
to combat the practice in the U.S.

These abuses happen in the U.S. more often than we imagine. The Asian American
Network Against Abuse of Human Rights, for example, has reported that thousands
of young Pakistani-American women in the New York area have been involuntarily
shipped home for arranged marriages.

U.S. federal law bans female genital cutting, sometimes known as female
circumcision. Yet so many parents get around the law by sending their daughters
abroad for the procedure that New York Congressman Joseph Crowley has proposed
legislation that makes sending a child abroad for the procedure also illegal.

Pediatricians are encountering more cases of female circumcision, and the
volatile mix of cultural, religious and human-rights issues it presents clearly
makes them uncomfortable. How else can one explain this statement made by the
American Academy of Pediatrics: "It might be more effective if federal and state
laws enabled pediatricians to reach out to families by offering a ritual nick as
a possible compromise to avoid greater harm." In other words, the group proposes
doing a little harm to preclude more dramatic disfigurement.

Hirsi Ali's main point is that this abusive practice spreads easily in tolerant
societies such as the U.S. She also maintains the controversial position that
Islamic moderates will lose to radicals in the worldwide battle for the future
of their religion.

The same openness that welcomed Hirsi Ali also led the Dutch to ignore the
growth of Islamic extremism within their country. Gradually extremists got hold
of the Dutch soul. The murder of Van Gogh and the fatwa on Hirsi Ali so
terrified the nation's leaders that they expelled her rather than defend a
heroine they had helped create.

She then fled to the U.S. and became a fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute. Hirsi Ali says U.S. feminists, who should be fierce defenders of
Muslim women, focus more on "cultural identity" than the women's welfare. For
Americans weary of war, the rights of Muslim women are less important than the
possibility of antagonizing the radical Muslim community.

Recently Maricopa County prosecutors said they wouldn't seek the death penalty
for Almaleki. The decision came after his attorney, Billy Little, asked for
"some level of assurance that there is no appearance that a Christian is seeking
to execute a Muslim for racial, political, religious or cultural beliefs."

There is dark humor here: If Little's request was being honored intentionally,
then he managed what a thousand liberal lawyers have dreamed of -- to get a
cowboy state like Arizona to waver on the death penalty. Nonetheless, such
wavering wouldn't mean progress for Muslim women. Hirsi Ali is right: If the
U.S. won't view abuse consistently, who will?

Amity Shlaes, senior fellow in economic history at the Council on Foreign
Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. Her e-mail address is
amityshlaes@hotmail.com .

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday

Kind, Franken host meetings to discuss conditions for Hmong refugees

BYLINE: By Breann Schossow Eau Claire Leader-Telegram

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 436 words


In December, more than 3,500 Hmong refugees were forcibly deported from Thailand
to Laos.

Seven months later, Caitlin Lee, board president of the Eau Claire Area Hmong
Mutual Assistance Association, said there still are concerns for the returnees,
including the immigration process, safety and living conditions. Then there is
the matter of how to help them as they resettle.

"When are they (the Lao government) going to start allowing international
organizations and nongovernmental organizations in to help monitor this whole
process?" she asked.

These concerns played major roles in a meeting Wednesday at UW-Eau Claire hosted
by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, D-La Crosse, for members of the local Hmong community.
Joining Kind at the meeting was Ravic Huso, the U.S. ambassador to Laos, who
visited the southeast Asian nation earlier this year. Huso attended a similar
session with U.S. Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., on Tuesday night in the Twin Cities.

Most Hmong people made the move from Laos to Thailand in the 1970s after the
U.S. withdrew from Vietnam and Laos became a communist nation, according to the
Hmong International Human Rights Watch website. At the time, they became targets
of retaliation and persecution, and while some remained to live under the new
government, thousands immigrated to Thailand.

Kind said he considers the issue a high priority, especially the security,
treatment and conditions the Hmong returnees are facing. He said he has
discussed the situation with other members of Congress and the Lao embassy in
Washington, D.C.

"I felt it was important for them, the Lao government, to hear from us, not only
the administration but members of Congress, that we are concerned about this,"
he said.

Cha Lor, interim director of the Hmong Mutual Assistance Association, said he
wonders how long returnees will stay in resettlement camps, adding he thinks the
camps are not a good place.

"We wonder and are kind of concerned about people over there," he said.

Lee said questions asked during the meeting focused on the conditions of the
resettlement camps. Huso said the camps are very basic with shelter, water and
electricity. He added that there is little in terms of infrastructure, such as
schools, clinics and agricultural land.

"So, what people really need is they need some assistance, some integrated
development assistance to get themselves a new start in their lives," he said.

Huso said assistance offered by the U.S. would not be direct, but rather through
a developmental agency or international organization. The aid could take many
forms, with the main purpose being for returnees to generate income.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday

Glenn Garvin: And they complain about Arizona

BYLINE: By Glenn Garvin

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 817 words


Even by the standards of La-La Land, the latest ploy by Barbara Boxer and Dianne
Feinstein is utterly hypocritical. They just wrote the Justice Department
demanding an investigation of the new Arizona law making it a crime to not carry
immigration papers. Having cops question criminal suspects about their
immigration status is 'polarizing and hurtful,' the senators said.

As opposed, I guess, to chasing illegal immigrants with tanks, which is what
Boxer wanted to do in the early 1990s when Californians were freaking out over
immigration. Boxer inserted language into an appropriations bill requiring the
Pentagon to mobilize the National Guard and station it on the border.

And Feinstein -- no racial profiling for her, no sir. She wanted all Americans
to have to carry immigration papers, in the form of a national ID card that
would double as a work permit. Behold the new paradigm of American liberalism:
Trashing civil liberties is fine, as long as you do it in an equal-opportunity
way.

Immigrant-bashing has always been a bipartisan sport. And while the foolish law
pushed through by Arizona Republicans on a mostly party-line vote has been
getting most of the ink lately, Democrats are preparing their own -- and much
worse -- bully-boy solution to the immigration problem.

It's the same one championed nearly two decades ago by Feinstein: a national ID
card and work permit, now disguised as a "biometric Social Security card." A
proposal signed by half a dozen senior Democratic senators (Majority Leader
Harry Reid, Charles Schumer, Bob Menendez, Patrick Leahy, Dick Durbin and, of
course, Feinstein) calls for cards carrying not only your photo but a computer
chip loaded with your fingerprints, retinal scan or some other "unique biometric
identifier for the authorized card-bearer."

The Democrats solemnly promise the card "will only serve as evidence of lawful
work-authorization" and will never "be permitted to serve -- or shall be
required to be shown -- as proof of citizenship or lawful immigration status."
And perhaps that will be true, in Rod Serling's "Twilight Zone." Here on the
actual Earth as we know it, the card's mission creep will begin within months.

Social Security numbers, when they started out in the 1930s, were merely for
keeping track of your pension earnings. Now you can't do virtually anything,
from opening a bank account to getting a telephone installed, without one. The
same will be true of the new cards, especially since their computer chips can be
loaded with all kinds of information that government agencies will find useful
in tracing their enemies.

A good bet for the first one: the Department of Homeland Security, which for the
past two years has been clamoring for an ID card that will enable it to keep
track of how much allergy medicine you're buying -- your hay fever be damned,
you could be using those pills to cook up meth. From there, why not welfare
fraud and deadbeat dads? Why not gun nuts and polygamists (in a Hillary Clinton
White House) or flag-burners and sodomites (in a Pat Buchanan White House)? And
if you think deputy sheriffs won't be checking the cards of everybody stopped
for spitting on a Phoenix sidewalk, you don't know Joe Arpaio.

But let's indulge Sen. Feinstein and her colleagues in their "we're the
government and we're here to help" fantasies for a moment. Suppose the card is
used exactly as they promise: to verify your right to work. When you start a new
job, your boss swipes the ID card through a little credit-card-like machine, and
it beeps its approval ... except when it doesn't. Your job will be at the mercy
of every computer glitch, every misspelled name, every typing mistake by a
data-entry clerk who had a martini with Friday lunch.

The Social Security Administration admits its database has a 4.1-percent error
rate. In an economy where 55 million people start new jobs every year, that
translates to 2.2 million Americans tossed into a bureaucratic netherworld of
appeals and hearings that will likely combine the efficiency of the post office
with the amiability of airport-security screeners.

And that doesn't even take into account the incredible amount of time and energy
every working American will have to spend proving who they are to get an ID card
in the first place. Simply giving the card to everybody who's already in the
Social Security database would merely transfer all the existing fraud and error
over to the new system. So everybody's got to reapply, producing either a birth
certificate or valid immigration papers.

A 2007 Homeland Security study estimated collecting those documents and standing
in line to have them verified would take Americans almost 270 million man-hours
in the first decade. And that's an estimate from an agency that likes the idea
of the card. Arizona, here we come.

Glenn Garvin is a columnist for the Miami Herald. His e-mail address is
ggarvin@miamiherald.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            June 23, 2010 Wednesday

Ruben Rosario: Torture victims have an ally at Minnesota refuge

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1290 words


It was, in a way, like Rosa Garcia-Peltoniemi's own father coming to her seeking
help. Bear with me now. The following is a haphazard narrative inspired by Junot
Diaz, Tom Wolfe, Gertrude Stein and yours truly.

Back to this man. He was the first of Rosa Garcia-Peltoniemi's clients after she
took on a part-time job in 1987 as a staff psychologist for the fledgling Center
for Victims of Torture, then just 2 years old.

The Minneapolis-based center, which is now marking its 25th anniversary, has
become a national and international model of how to effectively treat and
counsel domestic and international refugees and survivors of
government-sanctioned or -sponsored torture.

Why Minnesota? Why not? Minnesota, the place that helps substance abusers, has
also been, for a while now, the place that helps survivors of torture.

I could go off about how our state's historically rich immigrant history and
outlook are being corrupted by the Arizona-inspired politics of the moment.

I'm actually running a pool on the first Minnesota legislator who will adopt an
Arizona lawmaker's move to pass a law that prohibits U.S.-born children of
undocumented parents from becoming automatic citizens. I'm now rooting for
Arizona to secede from the United States, pass whatever ludicrous laws it wants
and see whether they deter illegal immigration.

Go for it, bro.

AN UNFORGOTTEN MAN

But back to Rosa's old man.

He was a former Sinclair oil company executive in Havana at the time of the
Cuban Revolution in the late 1950s. Although at first a supporter of kicking out
the corrupt, repressive and Mafia-influenced Batista regime, her father soon
grew disillusioned after Fidel Castro took over. What seemed idealistic and
proper turned out to be no more than another ego-driven tyrant seeking one-man
rule. You drank the Kool-Aid, or else. Resistance was futile.

Rosa's father, the late Pedro Garcia, was branded an "undesirable" and subjected
to several years in a forced "re-education" camp. He was much like the client
who walked into her upstairs office at the center's headquarters, a Minneapolis
bungalow on Fulton Street, in 1987.

The brilliant man, then a refugee and student at the University of Minnesota,
had lost his linguistic skills, no longer fluently speaking English and French.

He got up after a second session and bluntly told Garcia-Peltoniemi that he
would not abide by her recommendations to attend future therapy sessions until
he relearned English and was able to converse directly with her.

She thought she had failed.

"I thought it was me," Garica-Peltoniemi told me.

She said this as we sat in her office on the second story of a massive but
bright and inviting yellow-and-white Victorian on St. Paul's Dayton Avenue. She
is now the center's senior consulting clinician and an internationally sought
speaker on treating survivors of torture.

Back then, she thought she had failed the man, but a year later, he called her
out of the blue. Trust -- perhaps the most essential bridge between client and
therapist -- was forged but took its time to gel.

"I know English now," he told her. "I'm ready now to come back."

Added Garcia-Peltoniemi: "He worked with me for many, many years and actually
achieved most of his goals in treatment."

Rosa has made an indelible imprint on the center's work over the past
quarter-century, according to Doug Johnson, the center's longtime executive
director, and others. She has shaped the center's client- and team-centered
approach and seen it replicated nationally and internationally.

"Because she was a refugee herself, she understood the general issues the
clients face," Johnson said.

AN 'ARDUOUS CONCEPT'

Q: Are you surprised after all these years that there's a steady stream of
clients? That torture is still out there, still pervasive?

A: I'm not surprised. I've always taken a long-term view. This is a problem that
has existed for centuries.

Q: There is a perception that a client comes to you and you "cure" them. Is it
more complicated than that?

A: Absolutely. Yes. It's an arduous concept, and one that requires a lot of
work. Asylum seekers, for example, are required to jump many hoops just for
their immigration status. If there is a public misunderstanding or
misinterpretation, it is that our clients are fine because they are here. But
many are still being traumatized. Many of their loved ones are still back home
and still subject to government reprisal.

Q: In the midst of such negative after-effects of torture, have you found a
degree of resiliency in clients?

A: Of course. We work with people who have survived tremendous assaults on their
being. So these are people who did not come to Minnesota because of our balmy
weather. No question.

As she says this, I think about some of the center's clientele I wrote about or
got to know through the years.

There is Manouchehr Dousti, who was tortured in an Iranian prison after the Shah
of Iran was deposed and replaced by the Ayatollah Khomeini.

The happiest day of his life, Dousti told me 12 years ago, was when his captors
informed him he was going to be executed that day. The torture was so immense
that this now-resettled Minnesota gas station chain businessman told me he
regretted at that time the decision not to take his life.

There's Matthieu Dowu of Togo, who endured similar depravity, came to Minnesota,
juggled three part-time jobs and died just a year after he successfully fought
to bring his wife and kids here from his war-torn West African homeland.

GREAT ACHIEVEMENTS

One of Garcia-Peltoniemi's pet peeves: Our nation in recent years sanctioned
waterboarding and other "enhanced" interrogation techniques in our declared war
against global terrorism. Government-sanctioned torture is wrong, regardless of
the motivations or the government, she said.

She is particularly distressed at learning those fellow psychologists and other
professionals -- mostly CIA employees or contractors -- actively took part or
influenced the torture of "enemy combatants" at secret prisons.

"I'm greatly ashamed of what they did," said Garcia-Peltoniemi, adding that
there still should be a congressional inquiry into the reported treatment.

I asked her why she continues this kind of work.

She brings up her late father.

Sure. Pedro Garcia was eventually allowed to leave his native Cuba after his
forced-labor experience.

But he was hardly the same man. He suffered from severe depression, complicated
later in life by skin cancer.

There were times, his daughter told me Wednesday as we sat in her corner office,
when he felt suicidal.

So she continues to see almost 20 clients a week at the center's St. Paul
facility. She may leave someday to expand on the teaching she has imparted to
other clinicians now working across the country and also in Sierra Leone, Jordan
and other parts of the world.

But no doubt about it. It's Pedro Garcia who keeps her anchored to her job, as
well as the quest to rebuild lives touched by such extreme human trauma.

The fruit of her labor may not easily translate into readily available
statistics. But she and the work the center has done the past quarter-century
should be as much celebrated in Minnesota as any celebrity, institution or
natural phenomenon like Prince, the Mighty Mississippi or Minnehaha Falls.

Uff da. Orale. Right on. It's all good.

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at 651-228-5454 or rrosario@ pioneerpress.com .

To learn more about the Center for Victims of Torture, go to cvt.org .

The United Nations will celebrate its International Day in Support of Victims of
Torture today in Washington as well as Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the
Center for Victims of Torture's Minneapolis headquarters at 717 East River
Parkway. The public is welcome. For more information, call 612-436-4800 or visit
cvt.org .

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Weeklong anti-gang sting nets 18 arrests

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: MINNESOTA-TWIN CITIES

LENGTH: 135 words


Immigration officials say they arrested 18 men during a weeklong operation that
targeted gang members in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office of Homeland Security
Investigations said Thursday that 15 of the men are known gang members or
associates of the Vatos Locos street gang. The others are members or associates
of the Sureno-13 gang.

Some of the suspects are in the country illegally and awaiting deportation. One
of the men is in the Hennepin County Jail on an attempted-murder charge.

ICE officials said gangs like Vatos Locos are becoming more involved with
illegal drugs in Minnesota.

The operation ended July 2. ICE worked with police in Richfield, Bloomington and
Minneapolis. The operation is part of a national initiative to target gangs.

-- Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday

Immigration group protests 2011 All-Stars in Ariz.

BYLINE: By DINESH RAMDE Associated Press Writer

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 136 words


MILWAUKEE As Major League Baseball prepares for its All-Star game in California,
immigrants-rights protesters are rallying outside the Milwaukee office of
Commissioner Bud Selig

They want Selig to move next year's All-Star game out of Arizona. Tuesday's
rally is part of a campaign to boycott the state after it passed a tough new law
on immigration enforcement.

About two dozen protesters picketed outside downtown Milwaukee's U.S. Bank
building. They chanted and held signs saying, "Move the game," and "Boycott
hate."

A similar protest is planned Tuesday outside Angel Stadium, where this year's
game is being held.

Milwaukee Brewers pitcher Yovani Gallardo is among a number of Latino players
threatening to boycott next year's game if he makes the team and the game is in
Arizona.


Online:

http://movethegame.org/

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday

Campaign prankster's real beef with Tom Emmer? Immigration

BYLINE: By Jason Hoppin jhoppin@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: POLITICS; Legislature; Minnesota-Twin Cities; Local

LENGTH: 673 words


Nick Espinosa is not Robert Erickson. Erickson is merely the whitest name
Espinosa could think of and, crushed by reporters after tossing pennies in front
of a candidate during a gubernatorial campaign event Wednesday, he lied.

It is a put-on that consumes Espinosa, a 23-year-old who by day helps the
unemployed look for jobs. But in his off-hours, partly for fun but mostly to
make a point, Espinosa has spent the past several months infiltrating "tea
party" rallies and punking gubernatorial candidates over the issue that animates
him most: immigration.

"I see it as sort of street theater or guerrilla theater. It's a way to take
some more creative actions to draw attention to an issue," Espinosa said.

Espinosa brought Wednesday's event with Republican gubernatorial candidate Tom
Emmer to a startling end when he dumped a bag full of change on a table, but
most of his stunts have been more cheeky than anything. But he is driven by a
painful episode.

When Espinosa was 15 years old and living in Illinois, federal agents raided his
home and hauled away his dad, who originally came to the University of Minnesota
from Ecuador on a student visa and worked here as an engineer at Ecolab. His
father has never been back to the U.S., and the episode broke up his father's
second marriage.

Espinosa's hijinks started last year where a lot of hijinks start -- at the
state Capitol. Espinosa wanted to speak about immigration at a tea party rally,
so he signed up using the alias Robert Erickson, a name he hoped wouldn't raise
any flags.

In front of a small but vocal group, Espinosa spoke about securing the borders,
about immigrants taking jobs, about crime increases and, oddly, about waves of
diseases such as smallpox that come with immigration. And then he pulled the
veil off his deception.

"Enough is enough. Let's send these European immigrants back where they came
from!" he said.

Not realizing the switch that just happened, the crowed cheered. Two videos of
the event posted on YouTube have received a combined 135,000 hits.

The Erickson persona persisted. He staged a fake rally of "European immigrants"
outside an Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Bloomington, chanting,
"Send us home!"

He posted a fake endorsement video of Emmer, with whom Espinosa seems obsessed.
He has also shown up at GOP fundraisers and Emmer campaign events.

Espinosa, a 2008 graduate of St. Olaf College, says he is obsessed by Emmer's
immigration policies, including his mention of a controversial Arizona
immigration law as a "wonderful first step."

On his website, Emmer said that he supports legal immigration and Arizona's
efforts to stop illegal immigration, as well as "the implementation of measures
to ensure that immigration to Minnesota is both legal and orderly."

That's what prompted Espinosa's stunt Wednesday at a forum Emmer held to explain
recent comments on a tip credit for servers -- immigration, not tips. He dumped
a bag of 2,000 pennies on a table, effectively ending the forum.

The move startled Emmer, though he did say he would like Espinosa to return and
debate him. Espinosa offered Thursday to do just that, but Emmer's campaign says
he will not.

"I mean, you can't reward behavior like that with a public forum," Bill Walsh,
deputy campaign manager, said.

"I compare him to the guy that runs naked in center field," Walsh added, saying
sports cameras have the sense to turn the cameras away when something like that
happens. "It seems like the media in Minnesota are determined to give him a
voice when he runs naked in center field."

Espinosa said he was disappointed Emmer said no and predicted the candidate
would see more of him during the campaign season.

"It's not about me and Emmer at all. It's about him needing to engage the
communities that are affected by his anti-immigrant policies," said Espinosa,
who supports a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

Espinosa said his dad, whom he has visited several times in Ecuador, is aware of
what he is doing.

"He loves it. He tells me how proud he is of me."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Republican gubernatorial hopeful Tom Emmer, left, reacts as an
unidentified man rushed up and dumped a bag of pennies as Emmer met with
restaurant servers during a town hall meeting at Ol' Mexico Restaurante and
Cantina Wednesday, July 14, 2010 in Roseville, Minn. (AP Photo/Jim Mone)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday

Penny protester invites Emmer to immigration forum

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 135 words


ST. PAUL, Minn. Republican gubernatorial candidate Tom Emmer is turning down an
invitation to talk immigration with the man who dumped pennies at his event.

Emmer spokesman Bill Walsh says the campaign won't acknowledge Nick Espinosa,
who startled the candidate by dumping a pile of pennies on the table in front of
him at a town hall meeting and gave reporters a fake name, Robert Erickson, on
Wednesday.

On Thursday, Espinosa invited Emmer to an immigration forum at a Latin American
marketplace in Minneapolis.

Espinosa says he made up the alias to get into a tea party gathering and kept
using it after getting threats. Espinosa says he is an activist with the
Minnesota Immigrant Rights Action Committee.

In a letter to Emmer posted on his blog, Espinosa says he was 15 when his
immigrant father was deported.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday

Twin Cities immigrants teach others about their home country

BYLINE: By Ricardo Lopez rlopez@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: RAMSEY COUNTY; Education; Local

LENGTH: 413 words


With the growing cultural diversity of the Twin Cities, Neighborhood House is
touting a workshop program likened to a crash course on the home countries of
immigrants.

Since the agency launched its cultural proficiency workshops in 2008, about
3,800 people have come to learn about the various countries. The St. Paul
multicultural community center works with immigrant populations, including
Latino, Somali and Hmong groups.

"It started as an effort to share what we know," said Steve Kean, spokesman for
Neighborhood House. "There's a demand for these workshops."

He said most who attend work in education or health care, but there is
increasing interest from businesses and government agency workers. Many
Neighborhood House employees lead sessions on their home countries.

Last week, a class of about a dozen took up Ethiopian and Oromo history, culture
and customs.

Gada Roba, who is Oromo and a recent University of Minnesota graduate, led the
session. He explained ethnic differences within Ethiopia and the country's
history of ethnic strife. This type of information, Kean said, is important
because it helps bridge communication that could be hampered by a lack of
cultural awareness.

"I thought it'd be neat to check out," said Eve Lo, who works with minority
students through a precollege access program. Her colleagues had attended
previous trainings.

"It provides tips on how to work with different groups," she said.

Minnesota saw a jump in immigration last year, attracting more than 18,000 in
2009 from 128 different countries, according to the Minnesota State Demographic
Center. That is a 14 percent increase from the year before.

The workshops don't have a language component to them, Kean said. Instead, they
provide attendees with ways to positively interact with people of different
ethnic and cultural groups. Presenters go over the history of immigrants and
refugees' arrival to Minnesota, attitudes toward education and health care, and
appropriate interactions with members of the opposite sex.

For example, in Somali culture, it is rude to motion with a finger or a hand to
"come here," Kean said. "That's how you call a dog," he said.

The cost of a single workshop is $45, and participants can get discounts if they
sign up for more than one. Neighborhood House will also arrange to bring
presenters to other locations to train groups.

Ricardo Lopez can be reached at 651-228-5480.

ONLINE

For more information on Neighborhood House workshops, go online to neighb.org .

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Jmd WORKSHOP) Oromian Gada Roba from Minneapolis presented an
introduction to Ethiopian and Oromo culture to Cultural Proficiency Workshop
participants interested in becoming more aware of the nuances of the two
cultures Tuesday morning July 13, 2010 at Neighborhood House in St. Paul. (JOHN
DOMAN: PIONEER PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 22, 2010 Thursday

Briefing: South Africa's Tutu to retire from public life

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 922 words


JOHANNESBURG -- One of South Africa's most beloved figures, Desmond Tutu,
announced plans Thursday to retire from public life after his 79th birthday in
October. Honored for his efforts to fight apartheid, the Nobel peace laureate
said he wants to spend more time with his family. South Africans lavished praise
on Tutu and said his retirement was well-deserved, but many said they could not
imagine the country without his moral leadership. Opposition politician Patricia
de Lille said Tutu's 'special' voice would be missed and there were hopes he
would still speak out on issues facing the nation. Judge skeptical of
immigration law

PHOENIX -- A federal judge on Thursday expressed skepticism that a key part of a
controversial Arizona law to control illegal immigration was constitutional. At
a hearing Thursday morning, U.S. District Judge Susan Bolton noted that the U.S.
Supreme Court has long barred states from creating their own immigrant
registration systems. She said that a new crime created by the Arizona measure,
of failing to have immigration documents, may violate that. John Bouma, the
attorney representing Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, tried to convince Bolton
otherwise. Bolton did not issue any ruling.U.N. court upholds Kosovo breakaway

LONDON -- Kosovo's declaration of independence from Serbia in 2008 did not
violate international law, the United Nations' highest court declared Thursday
in a closely watched case that could have significant repercussions for
secessionist movements around the world. The opinion by the International Court
of Justice, while not binding, is likely to give a big boost to the tiny Balkan
country's quest for full statehood and represents a blow to Serbia, which
considers Kosovo part of its territory. At present, 69 nations, including the
U.S., recognize Kosovo as a separate country, but a number of major powers such
as Russia and China do not.War bill stripped of domestic spending

WASHINGTON -- The Senate voted 46-51 Thursday night to reject more than $20
billion in domestic spending the House had tacked on to its $60 billion bill to
fund President Barack Obama's troop surge in Afghanistan. Instead, the Senate
returned to the House a measure limited chiefly to war funding, foreign aid,
medical care for Vietnam War veterans exposed to Agent Orange and replenishing
almost empty disaster aid accounts. The moves repel a bid by House Democrats
earlier this month to resurrect a jobs agenda with $10 billion in grants to
school districts to avoid teacher layoffs, $5 billion for Pell Grants to
low-income college students, $1 billion for a summer jobs program and $700
million to improve security along the U.S.-Mexico border. The Senate measure is
likely to be accepted by House Democrats next week.Green Zone attack kills 3 at
Embassy

BAGHDAD, Iraq -- A rocket attack in Baghdad's Green Zone on Thursday killed
three guards employed by the U.S. Embassy and wounded 15 people, including two
Americans, the embassy said. Also Thursday, Iraqi officials disclosed that four
detainees linked to the Sunni insurgent group al-Qaida in Iraq escaped this week
from a prison the U.S. handed over to Iraqi control last week. Copter crash
kills 2 U.S. servicemen

KABUL, Afghanistan -- Two U.S. service members were killed Thursday in a
helicopter crash in Helmand province, the third fatal chopper crash in the south
of Afghanistan in less than two months. Taliban forces claimed to have shot down
the aircraft. Witnesses allege Chinese brutality

BEIJING -- Chinese security forces fired indiscriminately on Tibetan protesters
in 2008 and beat and kicked others until they lay motionless on the ground,
Human Rights Watch said in a report Thursday detailing unrest that the
government says it suppressed legally. The report-- using rare eyewitness
accounts -- examines China's crackdown on the broadest anti-government uprising
the country has faced from Tibetans in nearly 50 years. Among the findings:
Witnesses say that on March 14, 2008, security forces in Lhasa opened fire on
protesters near the Barkhor, the heart of the old city. As protests spread
across the Tibetan plateau, security forces shot at secondary school students
headed to a demonstration and at monks and civilians marching toward government
buildings.At Stonehenge, another mystery

LONDON -- Scientists scouring the area around Stonehenge said Thursday they have
uncovered the foundations of a second circular structure only a few hundred
yards from the world famous monument. Like Stonehenge, the structure's precise
purpose remains a mystery. But it's one of an expanding number of discoveries
being made around the site -- something experts say is helping to show that
Stonehenge was once much more than just a cluster of sandstone blocks standing
in an empty field.Murder-suicide probed in 5 deaths

NEW YORK -- The deaths of a mother and four children in a torched New York City
apartment were being investigated Thursday as a possible murder-suicide
committed by one of the children, a troubled teenager with a history of setting
fires, police said. Two young girls whose badly burned bodies were found in the
apartment had their throats slit, police said. The body of an older brother,
C.J. Jones, 14, was found slumped over a bed in a back bedroom, his throat also
slit. A straight razor was discovered underneath his body. Police are
investigating the possibility that the teen may have killed his mother and
siblings -- ages 2 to 10 -- and killed himself.

-- Associated Press, Los Angeles Times, Washington Post

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

Wisconsin immigration group applauds detainee website

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 119 words


An immigrant-rights group in Milwaukee is applauding a new online system that
lets people look up where detainees are being held.

The search tool is on the website of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or ICE. It allows people to track down those who have been swept up
in immigration raids.

Jill Vonnahme of Voces de la Frontera says the website is a good way for
families and attorneys to find someone. She tells Wisconsin Public Radio there
are so many immigration detention centers that it can be hard to locate someone.

Users of the Online Detainee Locator System can search for someone using an
Alien Registration Number or the detainee's name, birth date or country of
birth. It does not list minors.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

Wis. immigration group applauds detainee website

BYLINE: The Associated Press

SECTION: WISCONSIN

LENGTH: 150 words


MILWAUKEE An immigrant-rights group in Milwaukee is applauding a new online
system that lets people look up where detainees are being held.

The search tool is on the website of the U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or ICE. It allows people to track down those who have been swept up
in immigration raids.

Jill Vonnahme (vuh-NAH'-mee) of Voces (VOH'-sis) de la Frontera (frohn-TAY'-ruh)
says the website is a good way for families and attorneys to find someone. She
tells Wisconsin Public Radio there are so many immigration detention centers
that it can be hard to locate someone.

Users of the Online Detainee Locator System can search for someone using an
Alien Registration Number or the detainee's name, birth date or country of
birth. It does not list minors.


Online:

ICE detainee locator: https://locator.ice.gov/odls/homePage.do


Information from: Wisconsin Public Radio, http://www.wpr.org

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday

Motion: Judge helped plan immigration raid at Iowa slaughterhouse

BYLINE: By Michael J. Crumb Associated Press

SECTION: BREAKING; Crime and Court Stories; Business

LENGTH: 542 words


DES MOINES, Iowa -- Attorneys for a former Iowa kosher slaughterhouse executive
filed a motion today seeking a new trial, claiming the judge that presided over
his trial participated in the planning of a May 2008 immigration raid that led
to his arrest.

Sholom Rubashkin was found guilty last fall of 86 federal financial fraud
charges and was sentenced in June by Chief U.S. District Court Judge Linda Reade
to 27 years in prison and ordered to pay $27 million in restitution.

His attorneys filed a motion and more than 100 pages of documents obtained
through a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit that they say show Reade met with
immigration officials and prosecutors beginning as early as October 2007.

The documents show prosecutors coordinated the raid so it wouldn't conflict with
Reade's vacation schedule. They also show that as early as November 2007, Reade
and prosecutors discussed holding court proceedings after the raid at the
National Cattle Congress exhibition area in Waterloo. Other documents indicate
Reade "surveyed" and approved of the location.

A telephone message left today for Reade was not immediately returned, and U.S.
District Clerk of Court Robert Phelps said judges do not comment on pending
cases. Bob Teig, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office declined comment,
saying the office would respond in a motion answering the allegations.

The motion also alleges that a later meeting was held where "the court made it
clear that it was willing to support the operation in any way possible."

Rubashkin's lawyers argue that the documents also indicate that a meeting was
held on March 17, 2008, where Reade and prosecutors "discussed an overview of
charging strategies, numbers of anticipated arrests and prosecutions, logistics,
the movement of detainees and other issues related to the ... investigation and
operation."

Affidavits show Immigration Custom Enforcement records during the preplanning
period that included communications with Reade, which indicated that Rubashkin
was the focus on the investigation.

Rubashkin's attorneys claim that federal law requires judge to disqualify
themselves if their impartiality might be reasonably questioned and that Reade
illegally presided over Rubashkin's trial and sentencing.

"This motion alleges that Judge Reade acted improperly by participating in
repeated ... meetings with the U.S. attorney's office and that she concealed
this impropriety by failing to disclose those meetings or their content to
counsel for Mr. Rubashkin at any time during the criminal proceedings,"
attorneys Nathan and Alyza Lewin wrote in the motion. "Hence she is not
'sufficiently distanced from the fray as to permit an objective consideration of
the evidence.'"

They went on to ask that a "neutral and disinterested" judge be assigned to rule
on the motion.

The plant in Postville, Iowa, gained attention after the raid, in which 389
illegal immigrants were detained. At the time, it was the largest single-site
immigration raid in U.S. history.

The plant eventually filed for bankruptcy and was later sold.

Rubashkin also faced 72 charges for allegedly allowing illegal immigrants to
work at the plant but Reade dismissed those charges and a jury later acquitted
Rubashkin of state child labor charges.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday

Rosario: Praying for immigration fix? It'll take a miracle

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 987 words


I've been praying for peace on earth and good will toward men ever since Mother
Superior told me to when I was a cute little altar boy.

Hasn't happened yet. I doubt it ever will in my lifetime.

The 80-some folks who gathered Wednesday outside the U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement office in Bloomington appeared much more passionate and
optimistic about their quest than my unfulfilled one.

They formed a circle to the side of one of the complex's entrances. They
repeatedly sang the verse, "If today you hear God's voice, harden not your
heart."

They read biblical passages appropriate for the occasion. One of them was Exodus
23:9: "Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of a
stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt."

The others were from Leviticus 19:33-34: "And if a stranger sojourn with thee in
your land, ye shall not vex him" and "But the stranger that dwelleth with you
shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for
ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God."

They then ripped up pictures of actual families deported or separated by what
they believe is an unjust, inhumane, ineffective and broken immigration system.

"We need to recognize that our immigration laws are outdated and therefore do
not serve the moral principles of our democracy," said Carl Valdez, a deacon at
Incarnation-Sagrado Coraz?n de Jes?s in South Minneapolis.

Valdez is part of ISAIAH, an organization of 90 congregations from various faith
traditions in the Twin Cities and St. Cloud areas. The group called on the Obama
administration to immediately stop the detention and deportation of noncriminal
immigrants until the White House and Congress pass a comprehensive immigration
reform bill.

Given the emotionally charged political climate on this issue, they might as
well call for another parting of the Red Sea.

CALLING OUT WRONGS

The rally, among several that took place in Minnesota and seven other states,
came amid reports related to this thorny issue.

Florida and Virginia are among a rising number of states that may ask lawmakers
to pass or reject bills modeled after Arizona's controversial illegal
immigration law. A study this week concluded that -- contrary to perceptions --
the Obama administration has actually deported more people than its predecessor.

According to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse
University, ICE removed 279,035 noncitizens during the first nine months of this
fiscal year. That figure is 10 percent higher than the 254,763 deported in the
same period during fiscal year 2008 -- the last year of George W. Bush's
administration.

Meanwhile, statistics obtained by a host of immigration advocacy groups indicate
that 47,000 people have been removed or deported from the U.S. in the past two
years under the Secure Communities program.

The federal crackdown, which the Obama administration supports, checks millions
of fingerprints taken from bookings at hundreds of local jails nationwide. No
jail in Minnesota is currently part of the effort, though local ICE agents
routinely scour jail booking sheets.

Still, the advocacy groups argue that the federal information-sharing effort,
which was sold as an attempt to focus on undocumented immigrants who commit
serious crimes, also targets noncriminal types. The groups report that roughly
one-quarter of the 47,000 deportations were noncriminal folks.

"ICE has pulled a bait-and-switch, with local law enforcement spending more time
and resources facilitating the deportations of busboys and gardeners than
murderers and rapists and at considerable cost to local community policing
strategies, making us all less safe," Peter Markowitz, director of the
Immigration Justice Clinic at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York,
told the Associated Press this week.

And those were the kind of folks some of the rally participants shared stories
about Wednesday.

IMPOSSIBLE POLITICS

One woman spoke about a man named "Washington," who fled the bloody civil war in
Liberia 20 years ago that claimed the lives of his father and other relatives.
The man's mother escaped with his three children and found refuge in the Ivory
Coast. The man received, like hundreds of others, temporary protected status in
the U.S. that is renewed every 18 months. The status, however, has come close to
expiring on several occasions in recent years.

And as long as the status remains temporary, "he has been unable for the past 20
years to be allowed to bring his children here," she said.

Vic Rosenthal, executive director of St. Paul-based Jewish Community Action,
spoke about the plight of "Pedro."

The U.S.-born 12-year-old boy's parents were among almost 400 immigrant workers
snared in an ICE raid of a kosher slaughterhouse in Postville, Iowa, two years
ago. Many were ultimately deported, including the boy's parents.

"He was left by himself to take care of himself," said Rosenthal, adding that
the boy is one example of many others separated from parents following the 2008
raid.

"Many of them are still not reconnected with their families," he added. "This is
a situation that must be corrected."

Here's the harsh reality. Kids like Pedro now have a bull's-eye on their backs
as some politicians are pushing to change the Constitution and strip them of
their U.S. citizenship. Obama and a politically polarized Congress are
saber-rattling in rhetoric only while looking very uninterested in pushing
through comprehensive reform.

Perhaps one day we'll come up with a more humane immigration system that better
secures the borders, exiles the criminal element and provides a pathway to
citizenship or legal work to those who deserve it.

It hasn't happened yet. I have doubts it ever will in my lifetime. But no matter
how hopeless or hopeful the cause, it never hurts to pray, as Mother Superior
would say.

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com .

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Jmd 2 ICE Rally) Piedad Del Real (L) from Savage, and Schirber from
Minneapolis re-attach ripped family photos and glue them on posterboard to
illustrate how family's are ripped asunder when law enforcement agencies enforce
deportations and detentions of non-criminal immigrants--in front of the ICE
office HQ in Bloomington Wednesday morning August 11, 2010. The prayerful action
was organized by ISAIAH, an organization of 90 congregations from various faith
traditions locally. About hundred people protested this day. (JOHN DOMAN:
PIONEER PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday

Suspect in Minneapolis market slayings is a juvenile, mother says

BYLINE: By David Hanners dhanners@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 700 words


The mother of murder defendant Mahdi Hassan Ali testified Wednesday that
although she's illiterate, couldn't remember the year her husband died and had
lied to immigration officials, she remembered the exact day the youngest of her
10 children was born in a Kenyan hospital: Aug. 25, 1994.

Sainab Said Osman also described how she had given the newborn to her niece to
raise because the pregnancy and delivery -- which occurred when she was in her
late 50s -- kept her in the hospital for three months.

Later, the child whose name would be changed to Mahdi Ali came to know the woman
as his grandmother. It was a ruse, she told a judge, to preserve lies that both
mother and son had told immigration officials when they came separately to the
United States.

Osman, who is 75 according to the birth date the U.S. State Department gave her
when she immigrated to the U.S., testified during the second day of a court
hearing to determine the age of Ali, one of two teens charged in the January
slaying of three people in a Minneapolis market.

Hennepin County prosecutors contend that the Jan. 1, 1993, birth date the State
Department assigned Ali when he came to this country is accurate enough and that
he had just turned 17 at the time of the killings. Under Minnesota law, a
17-year-old accused of first-degree murder is automatically tried in adult
criminal court.

But defense attorney Frederick Goetz contends Ali was 15 at the time of the
crime. If that were the case, Ali would be handled by the juvenile justice
system unless a judge certifies him to stand trial as an adult.

Goetz and assistant county attorneys Robert Streitz and Charles Weber have
squared off in a unique hearing in which Hennepin County District Judge Peter
Cahill must decide Ali's age. The hearing began Tuesday and is expected to end
today.

Osman and her son are from Somalia, and the mother's testimony underscored stark
differences between an African culture where record keeping was virtually
nonexistent and an American justice system where the written record is
sacrosanct.

Testifying through an interpreter, she told of living in the town of Afgooye, 15
miles west of the capital of Mogadishu. She was raising her children -- her
husband died "in 1982 or so," she testified -- and she said that after the
country erupted into civil war, troops connected to a warlord attacked the town
one day in 1992.

"Some of my children were killed," she said. She was cooking at the time of the
attack, and soldiers held her hand over the fire, burning it.

The family fled to Ethiopia as refugees and spent a year there before they went
to Kenya and wound up in the sprawling Marafa refugee camp.

Under questioning by Goetz, she said that while in the camp, she became
pregnant.

"Can you tell us the day you gave birth to the boy when you lived in the Marafa
camp," Goetz asked.

"Aug. 25, '94," she replied.

When Goetz asked her if the child was a boy, she replied that it was. "He's
sitting next to you," she said, referring to the defendant.

Ali seemed to show no emotion during his mother's testimony.

Since many Somali immigrants lack birth records, when they come to the United
States, the State Department gives them the date of birth of Jan. 1 and often
makes its best guess on their birth year. Osman's listed date of birth is Jan.
1, 1935, and depending upon which birthday is accurate for her son, she was
either 58 or 59 when she gave birth to him.

DNA tests confirm she is Ali's mother.

They had come to this country separately; another couple had claimed him as
their biological son. They wound up in the Twin Cities, which has the largest
concentration of Somali refugees, and Osman petitioned family court to get
custody of Ali.

But in doing so, she claimed she was Ali's grandmother, not his mother. Streitz
asked her why she had lied.

"I found that to be the best interest of the family," she said. "It was lie that
I was his grandmother, but the main issue was to get custody of my son."

Ali and co-defendant Ahmed Shire Ali, 18 (they are not related), were each
charged with six counts of first-degree murder in the Jan. 6 slayings at Seward
Market & Halal Meat on East Franklin Avenue.

David Hanners can be reached at 612-338-6516.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 13, 2010 Monday

Belgian Catholic church admits abuse crisis

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 992 words


BRUSSELS -- The Belgian Roman Catholic church on Monday acknowledged widespread
sexual abuse over years by its clergy and pleaded for time to set up a system to
punish all abusers and provide closure for victims. The comments were in
response to a report Friday in which hundreds of sex abuse victims revealed
harrowing accounts of molestation by Catholic clergy throughout the country over
the past 50 years. At a news conference Monday, Belgium's Archbishop
Andre-Mutien Leonard said 'a feeling of anger and powerlessness' had taken hold
of the church. 'The report and the suffering it contains make us shiver,' he
said. He said the crisis gripping the church is so deep it would be impossible
to find an easy way out. The report, by an independent panel with links to the
church, highlighted claims by surviving family members that at least 13 victims
committed suicide as a result of the abuse by clergy. Hundreds more victims
complained about trauma that plagued them, sometimes up to 50 years after the
abuse. Poll: Immigration issues hurt Obama

LOS ANGELES -- Immigration issues, including questions about who should have
U.S. citizenship, have hurt President Barack Obama's standing with voters,
according to the latest Quinnipiac University national poll. The poll, carried
out during the first week in September, found that respondents had a strong
anti-immigrant tilt, favoring, by 68 percent to 24 percent, stricter enforcement
of immigration laws rather than integrating illegal immigrants into society and,
by 48 percent to 45 percent, an end to the constitutionally guaranteed practice
of granting U.S. citizenship to children born of illegal immigrants. Video game
boosts decision-making skill

Playing action video games primes the brain to make quick decisions and could be
incorporated into training programs for surgeons or soldiers, a study found. The
researchers tested 18- to 25-year-olds who weren't regular video-game players.
One group spent 50 hours playing "The Sims 2," a slow-paced strategy game
published by Electronic Arts. The other group took on "Call of Duty 2," a combat
game sold by Activision Blizzard, or "Unreal Tournament," a shooter game
developed by Epic Games. The subjects performed timed computer tasks, according
to the report published Monday in the journal Current Biology. In the
problem-solving exercise, the action-game players made decisions 25 percent
faster than the strategy group while answering the same number of questions
correctly. The findings suggest games simulating stressful events or battles
could be a training tool for speeding real-world reaction times, said
researchers at the University of Rochester in New York led by Daphne Bavelier, a
cognitive scientist.Restaurants urged to revamp kids' fare

WASHINGTON -- First lady Michelle Obama opened a new front in her battle against
childhood obesity on Monday, urging restaurateurs to offer healthier children's
foods and to stop undermining parents with "an avalanche of advertisements aimed
at our kids" that tout high-calorie, low-nutrient foods. In remarks to the
National Restaurant Association's board, Obama noted that many children's menus
offer macaroni and cheese, cheeseburgers and chicken fingers and that some
options have nearly 1,000 calories, or roughly what a child needs for an entire
day. Obama launched a campaign called "Let's Move," to address the fact that one
in three children in the U.S. is overweight or obese and at risk for
hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and cancer. Restaurants have a part to
play since a third of all meals in the U.S. are eaten outside the home, Obama
said.Small business seeks health law change

WASHINGTON -- Facing a backlash from small businesses over a new tax-reporting
requirement in the health care law the president signed in March, the Obama
administration is embracing the first change to the landmark legislation. In a
letter to Senate leaders, Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen
Sebelius and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner urged the Senate to back a
proposal to scale back the new reporting mandate. The law requires businesses to
report to the IRS transactions worth more than $600, a provision that was added
to the law to raise an estimated $17 billion and offset the cost of expanding
coverage to millions of uninsured Americans. In recent months, business leaders
have signaled growing alarm over what many businesses say would be an
administrative nightmare. Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill have said
they are committed to modifying or eliminating the mandate but have been unable
to agree on a solution.2nd-highest yearly deficit predicted

WASHINGTON -- The federal government is on track to record the second-highest
deficit of all time with one month left in the budget year. The deficit totaled
$1.26 trillion through August, the Treasury Department said Monday. That puts it
on pace to total $1.3 trillion when the budget year ends on Sept. 30, slightly
below last year's record $1.4 trillion deficit. Soaring deficits have become a
major issue with voters heading into the midterm elections. Saudis want $90B in
U.S. arms, planes

WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is seeking a go-ahead from Congress to
sell up to $60 billion in sophisticated warplanes to Saudi Arabia and could add
another $30 billion in naval arms in a deal designed to counter the rise of Iran
as a regional power. The deal apparently would represent the largest single U.S.
arms sale ever approved and allow Saudi Arabia to buy top-line U.S.-made
helicopters and fighter jets with ranges that would span the Middle East and
beyond. Unlike some previous sales to Saudi Arabia, this one is not expected to
be derailed by opposition in Congress or from U.S. backers of Israel, who have
worried in the past about blunting Israel's military edge over its Arab
neighbors. Iran is now seen as an unpredictable threat.

-- Associated Press, Chicago Tribune, Bloomberg News

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            October 11, 2010 Monday

A day for kids' health ... and 'Dora the Explorer'

BYLINE: By Bill Salisbury bsalisbury@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Politics; News

LENGTH: 589 words


The three leading candidates for Minnesota governor outlined their competing
visions on how to help children succeed Monday in a debate marred by an outburst
by an immigration activist and a critic of Republican Tom Emmer.

Discussing children's health, Emmer said state government should get out of the
way and let individuals choose the kind of health care they want, while Democrat
Mark Dayton and the Independence Party's Tom Horner called for more public
physical fitness, nutrition and prevention programs.

But in the midst of the debate at the Minnesota Children's Museum in downtown
St. Paul, activist Nick Espinosa leapt on stage and dropped a doll of the
Hispanic children's character "Dora the Explorer" in Emmer's lap to highlight
what he called Emmer's anti-immigrant policies.

"Hey, Emmer, pick on somebody your own size. ... Education, not deportation,"
Espinoza yelled as the audience booed and Dayton stepped between the two men.

"Happy Columbus Day, Emmer," the intruder said as museum staff members escorted
him off the stage.

Emmer just shrugged.

"Hey, guys, it was better than the pennies," he said, referring to the bag of
pennies Espinoza dumped on Emmer's table during a July 14 town hall meeting at a
Roseville restaurant. That remark sparked a burst of laughter and applause from
the Minnesota Children's Forum audience.

But a few minutes later, the GOP candidate got a taste of the crowd's
displeasure.

Asked how they would deal with the growing problems of children's obesity, poor
nutrition and declining physical fitness, Horner and Dayton called for more
government intervention.

"We need to invest in prevention," the IP candidate said. He advocated programs
to encourage "better health behavior," make fresh fruits and vegetables more
readily available and support school physical fitness programs.

Saying, "There is no good public policy that supports cheap cigarettes," he also
called for an increase in tobacco taxes by $1.50 a pack.

Dayton said he would lead by example and shed several pounds. He also called for
providing schools enough state funding to pay for nutritious meals and programs
to educate children and parents on healthy food choices.

Emmer responded: "Isn't it amazing as I listen to my colleagues talk about how
the government needs to get more invested in making sure we can protect
ourselves from our own tendency toward bad behavior?"

He said it's more important to "educate people to take ownership of their own
problems" and then allow them to pick health insurance policies that meet their
needs. Giving them more choices will produce better results, he said.

"The more government has gotten involved in trying to help us with our own
problems, the worse the problems seem to be getting," Emmer said.

Dayton then asked him, "If you don't believe in government, why do you want to
be in charge of it?" The audience roared its approval.

Government programs that provide health care to more people, combined with
private advances in medicine, have increased life expectancy in the nation by a
decade, the Democrat said.

Horner argued that bad public policies have made it more difficult for people to
get access to good health care and for schools to offer physical education. "We
need to change that," he said.

All three candidates called for ensuring that more Minnesota children have
health insurance and providing more early childhood education programs.

After nearly two dozen joint appearances, the trio will debate again at 9 a.m.
today on Minnesota Public Radio's two-hour "Midmorning" show.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

Group of 20: No currency devaluations

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: NATIONAL

LENGTH: 838 words


GYEONGJU, South Korea -- Moving to shore up the fragile recovery, officials from
the world's 20 biggest economies promised Saturday to refrain from weakening
their currencies, agreeing to let the markets set foreign exchange rates. The
officials also decided to give fast-growing countries a greater say at the
International Monetary Fund, which monitors nations' fiscal and monetary
policies. The finance ministers and central bankers were at a two-day meeting in
Gyeongju, South Korea, built largely around an American agenda. Talks yielded
more consensus than many expected as the U.S. refrained from putting more public
pressure on China to revalue its currency, preferring instead to emphasize the
benefits of reducing trade imbalances. China has been accused of artificially
devaluing its currency to increase its lower-priced exports. Anxiety has grown
about possible protectionism as other countries have considered weakening their
currencies to bolster their own exports. Randy Quaid, wife seek refugee status

VANCOUVER -- Actor Randy Quaid and his wife told Canada's immigration board over
the weekend that they are seeking refuge in Canada because they are being
persecuted in the United States. The pair were arrested Thursday afternoon in an
affluent Vancouver neighborhood on U.S. warrants. The Quaids are wanted in Santa
Barbara, Calif., where they missed a court hearing Monday on felony vandalism
charges. Evi Quaid begged a Canadian immigration adjudicator not to force them
to return to the United States, saying that eight friends, such as actors David
Carradine and Heath Ledger, have been "murdered" under mysterious circumstances,
and she's worried something will happen to her husband next. "We feel our lives
are in danger," she said.Suspected drug labfound in dorm

WASHINGTON -- Police have arrested three men suspected of creating a drug lab in
a freshmen dorm at prestigious Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.
Investigators found a lab for the hallucinogenic drug DMT, or
dimethyltryptamine, on the ninth floor of the residence hall, said officer Hugh
Carew. The strange odor from the top floor tipped off authorities, prompting the
evacuation of about 400 students. Carew said two suspects facing charges in the
case are students, and one was a visitor.Mexican gunmenkill 13 at party

EL PASO, Texas -- Gunmen killed at least 13 people and wounded 15 at a house
party in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, the city across the border from El Paso, Texas.
The dead range in age from 16 to 25. A 9-year-old was among the wounded. The
violence occurred in the neighborhood of Horizontes del Sur. Bears too muchfor
Japanese towns

TOKYO -- Bears foraging for food in residential areas have authorities in Japan
scrambling to find an effective way to stop such incursions. Eighty-four
incidents of injuries or property damage have been reported between April 1 and
Sept. 30, and four people have been killed. One factor is a shortage of food:
The acorn crop has failed. On Thursday, a black bear appeared in a park in a
busy district of Uozu, Toyama Prefecture. It was shot dead after it ran into a
house. British nuclear subfreed in 10 hours

LONDON -- The Royal Navy is conducting an inquiry to explore why its newest
nuclear submarine, HMS Astute, ran aground off northwest Scotland, left stranded
on a sandbank for 10 hours before a tug pulled it free. The $2 billion craft was
designed for maximum stealth. Divers were deployed Saturday to see if the rudder
had been damaged. Strikes hurt holiday travel in France

PARIS -- Families hoping to get away during school holidays faced gas shortages
Saturday as strikes against the government's pension reform stretched into a
12th straight day. French workers and students livid about raising the
retirement age from 60 to 62 have wreaked havoc in recent weeks, and the
government has been counting on the nearly 2-week-long break to deflate
protests. However, drivers trying to get away Saturday had to queue up at gas
stations first. Minister Jean-Louis Borloo insisted gas shortages had eased.
"There is a slow but real improvement," Borloo said Saturday.

-- Associated Press, New York Times, Bloomberg NewsCholera outbreak creeps
closer to Haiti's capital

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- A spreading cholera outbreak in rural Haiti threatened
to outpace aid groups as they stepped up efforts Saturday hoping to keep the
disease from reaching the squalid camps of earthquake survivors in
Port-au-Prince. At least 208 people have died and 2,674 others were infected in
an outbreak centered in the Artibonite region north of the capital. "If the
epidemic makes its way to Port-au-Prince, where children and families are living
in overcrowded camps, the results could be disastrous," said Dr. Estrella
Serrano, a World Vision expert. Cases were seen in Croix-des-Bouquet, a suburb
of the capital that could act as a transfer point because it has a widely used
bus station, said Paul Namphy, a Haitian official. "This is a very mobile
country," he said. "It can spread like wildfire."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Ruben Rosario: Children of illegal immigrants deserve chance to live their dream

BYLINE: By Rubén Rosario

SECTION: RUBEN ROSARIO; Local; Columnists

LENGTH: 1391 words


Brisa, not her real name, grew up in Apple Valley and did not learn until her
teenage years that she was not an American but a foreign-born child of
undocumented parents living in the U.S.

Neither did Julio, not his real name, a 20-year-old from Minneapolis who was
smuggled over the Mexico-U.S. desert border near Nogales, Ariz., when he was 10.

"I had no idea then what was going on," Julio told me last week. "My younger
brother and I thought we were involved in some kind of adventure with our
mother."

Both aced high school here and are career-track students at the University of
Minnesota. They are also among the hundreds of thousands of U.S.-educated youths
emerging as pawns in a simmering political debate over whether they should
continue to pay the price for the perceived sins of their parents.

This debate promises to flare up again as soon as Monday. That's when the
lame-duck 111th Congress reconvenes and many members of the
Democratic-controlled bodies in Congress will lobby hard to put the D.R.E.A.M.
Act to a vote. Advocates are also poised to launch a national call-in campaign
to legislators on both sides of the aisle.

Given the swing to the right in the midterm elections, this could be the last,
best shot for supporters to push the bill through by year's end. Next year will
be a longer shot, to put it mildly.

D.R.E.A.M. is an acronym for the Development, Relief and Education for Alien
Minors Act. First introduced in 2001, it would provide temporary legal status
and an ultimate path to citizenship for such youths if they meet a host of
criteria, detailed below.

The proposed federal legislation drew bipartisan support in recent years. Eleven
Republicans voted for it during an attempt to get it passed in 2007.

But that was then. This is now. Even those Republicans who may still be
sympathetic are facing mounting political pressure from conservative groups and
opponents who view the proposed legislation as a back door to broad amnesty for
these kids and their undocumented kin.

"The pro-D.R.E.A.M. people are trying to gin up this sense of inevitability,"
Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, D.C., told the Christian Science Monitor last week.

"Even the Republicans who co-sponsored it (Sens. Richard Lugar of Indiana and
Orrin Hatch of Nevada), they're up in two years, and they are facing (possible)
conservative primary challengers," added Krikorian, whose group favors
more-restrictive immigration policies. "Do they want to open up this huge new
target on their backs? I don't see it."

Well, maybe they and the Democratic body need to stop playing divisive politics
on the backs of these kids and do the right thing.

PART OF OUR FUTURE

The reality is that there are an estimated 2 million such foreign-born children
in this country. Federal law mandates that school-age children receive K-12
public education regardless of immigration status. Roughly 65,000 of them
graduate from our high schools annually. And then opportunities for higher
education and employment are all but slammed shut on the best and brightest who
seek to attend college.

Minnesota is among a majority of states that prohibit these youths from
receiving federal aid, in-state tuition or any scholarships linked directly or
indirectly to the state's public college and university systems.

Ten states, including California and New York, grant in-state tuition to certain
undocumented students.

Brisa and Julio are enrolled as "international students" and therefore pay
out-of-state tuition rates. They also cannot obtain driver's licenses or Social
Security cards. Even if they graduate with college degrees, they cannot apply
for many jobs in their chosen fields because legal residency or status is a
requirement. They, along with their parents, also could be picked up at any time
and deported, the main reason they asked that their identities be withheld.

So, essentially, we invest up to 12 years educating these young men and women,
and then we cut off the ones with the most potential. Does that make sense?

Unless we deport them all, these youths will remain here, living in a shadow
world and economy not of their own choosing. They are part of our future,
whether we like it or not.

WHO QUALIFIES?

There are numerous misconceptions and myths swirling about this bill. It is
hardly a handout or a free pass.

First, it provides temporary legal status for children brought into the U.S.
before age 16 who:


     ·    Have lived in the United States for five consecutive years.



     ·    Have graduated from an American high school or obtained a GED.



     ·    Have a clean criminal record and have demonstrated "good moral
          character."



     ·    Are ages 12 to 35.


Qualifying youth also would be required to work in the United States, go to
school or join the military in the next six years. If they graduate from a
two-year college, complete at least two years of a four-year degree or serve at
least two years in the military, they may become eligible for permanent legal
resident status and, ultimately, citizenship.

According to the Migration Policy Institute, 715,000 children ages 5 to 17, as
well as 360,000 high school graduates ages 18 to 24, could become eligible for a
status change under the bill.

The bill has received support from a range of entities. They include the
Pentagon and the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, which
represents 400 public colleges, universities and systems of higher education
throughout Minnesota and the United States.

The Minnesota Chamber of Commerce is also a backer.

"We support it for two key reasons," said Bill Blazar, the chamber's senior vice
president. "Many of them are serving in the military or are enrolled in higher
education. They are keyed up to be great and productive citizens, so why would
we want to keep them in the shadows?"

The second reason, Blazar explained, involves what he described as an American
sense of fairness and child welfare.

"A lot of these young people were brought to this country as infants or young
children," he said. "They had no choice or say. To penalize them for what their
parents did shows a lack of compassion and understanding of their
circumstances."

'AS AMERICANIZED AS YOU AND I'

Brisa, 19, was 1 when her mother crossed the border near Hermosillo, Mexico. She
now has a younger brother who was born here. A few years ago, her single mother
juggled five part-time jobs to make ends meet. The jobs ranged from office
cleaning and housekeeping to factory work.

"She worked almost 24/7," Brisa said. She said she learned about her status at
the end of her middle-school years. But, unlike others in her situation, she
decided not to give up, drop out or join the low-skill work force. She did well
in high school. She applied and obtained private scholarships to help pay her
tuition. A U sophomore, she plans a career in drawing and computer animation.

Julio graduated with a 3.8 GPA from South High School in Minneapolis. Now a
junior at the U, he's pursuing a degree in sociology and is seeking private
scholarships to shoot for a master's degree.

He remembers the night he crossed the border with family members and a group of
about 30 others.

"I could tell that the adults were nervous, but I did not know why," he said.
Border Patrol agents grabbed a few. Julio remembers he was separated from his
mother, a factory worker, and hid in a bush at a cousin's urging.

"The flashlights passed right by us," he said. "There were helicopters overhead.
I remember that we reached a nearby house, and the people inside helped us."

Brisa and Julio speak flawless English and Spanish and remember little about
their homeland.

John Keller, who heads the Immigrant Law Center of Minnesota, suggests these
youth, given the aging baby boomer population, could play a positive role in the
future labor market.

An immigration lawyer, Keller represented a child who was 2 when his father came
here illegally. The boy was ultimately deported with his father last year. His
U.S.-born younger brother is living with relatives here.

"He was 12 at the time when they were deported," Keller recalled. "He knew
nothing about Mexico. He was as Americanized as you and I and our kids."

Rub?n Rosario can be reached at rrosario@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5454.

ONLINE

To read more about the D.R.E.A.M. Act, go to migrationpolicy.org , cis.org and
immigrationpolicy.org .

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday

Human trafficking is subject of new ad campaign

BYLINE: By Alex Holmquist aholmquist@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: CRIME AND COURT STORIES; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 280 words


Passers-by in St. Paul may notice a new ad campaign, "Hidden in Plain Sight," an
effort by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to draw the public's
attention to human trafficking in the United States.

There are 12 posters at bus shelters throughout St. Paul.

An estimated 800,000 people are forced into commercial sex trade or other
forced-labor situations each year, according to ICE.

In May 2007, ICE and local law enforcement arrested 25 people in the Twin Cities
for their roles in a prostitution ring. Of those arrested, 23 have been
convicted.

Three of the operation's ringleaders admitted they brought women from other
states and countries to work as prostitutes.

Some victims may be lured by the false promise of prosperity but are instead
forced to work as sex slaves, sweat-shop employees, domestic servants or fruit
pickers, according to ICE.

"Because this heinous crime is extremely well-hidden, we need to help educate
members of the public about human trafficking," John Morton, assistant secretary
of Homeland Security for ICE, said in a news release.

The campaign seeks to encourage community members to report human trafficking if
they observe it.

Because victims are often unable to speak the language of the country where they
are taken, and traffickers usually conceal victims' travel and identity
documents, victim identification is especially difficult, according to ICE.

Traffickers may also threaten to harm the victims and their families if they
attempt to escape.

Posters, billboards and transit signs bearing the message are on display in
several major cities, including Atlanta, Los Angeles, Miami and San Antonio.

Alex Holmquist can be reached at 563-343-2967.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday

Other voices: Mass murder in Mexico

BYLINE: Pioneer Press

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 479 words


Mexico's criminal gangs have entered a grisly new phase in their mad scramble to
control anything and everything related to the border-area smuggling industry.
Before, their turf battle seemed limited to smuggling routes for drugs, guns and
laundered money. Now, with the bodies of 72 migrants discovered south of Texas
in Tamaulipas, it's apparent that illicit human cargo is added to this insane
mix.

When gunmen are willing to line up and shoot migrants in cold blood, for
whatever reason, the terrorists have descended into an entirely new realm of
inhumanity.

Migrants pay up to $3,000 each to be smuggled into the United States -- a sum
apparently too great to escape the notice of gangland criminals such as the
notorious Zetas, who want a cut of whatever action is heading north. In the
lucrative people-smuggling business, apparently, a new price of passage must be
paid.

The numbing extent of Mexico's staggering death toll -- 28,000 killed since 2006
-- adds to Americans' indifference and Mexicans sense of helplessness. Enormous
amounts of territory are being virtually handed over to these gangs, and
government security forces seem unable to regain control. The capture this week
of one reputed drug lord, American-born Edgar "La Barbie" Valdez Villarreal,
offers a glimmer of hope but little more. It's not nearly enough.

In the current issue of Foreign Affairs, Robert Bonner, former Customs and
Border Protection commissioner and administrator of the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration, argues that government forces can regain the upper hand in the
same way Colombia did, provided Mexico and the United States are willing to take
some difficult steps.

Bonner says that despite Mexico's dire situation, its violence is not as
pervasive as the drug wars that plagued Colombia in recent decades. Colombia's
government prevailed, after years of bloody chaos, only after the U.S. committed
money, security assistance and other significant resources to the fight. Most
important, the two governments worked in tandem to root out corruption, reform
the judiciary and strengthen laws to ensure that drug lords stopped behaving
with impunity.

One by one, they decapitated the major cartels, depriving them of their
commanders and lieutenants. The constant threat of extradition to face American
courts served notice to Colombian cartel leaders that the U.S. was committed to
the fight. Mexico's cartels have no such impression.

American policymakers are naive to think that Mexico can handle this challenge
alone. Our public is foolish to think that Americans can continue to consume
enormous quantities of illegal drugs yet turn a blind eye to the violence their
drug money funds. And when illegal migration gets pulled into this mix of guns,
corruption and wanton slaughter, we're looking at an entirely new, nightmarish
realm of possibilities.

-- The Dallas Morning News

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

Human trafficking ring allegedly run by Somali gang investigated in Minnesota,
Tennessee

BYLINE: By Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com

SECTION: BREAKING; Minnesota-Twin Cities

LENGTH: 696 words


Police are investigating a large Somali gang human trafficking ring that is
based in Minnesota and has a Tennessee connection, according to a search warrant
affidavit.

A Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension agent applied for the warrant and a
St. Paul police officer is the lead detective. Both departments referred
inquiries today to the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of
Tennessee, which is based in Nashville. Assistant U.S. Attorney Van Vincent said
he couldn't "confirm or deny the investigation at this time."

The warrant was filed in Ramsey County District Court Friday and KSTP-TV
obtained a copy of it Monday. The warrant has since been sealed and is no longer
available.

KSTP was first to air a story Tuesday night about the investigation and provided
a copy of the warrant to the Pioneer Press today.

BCA Special Agent Ann Quinn, who is a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
taskforce member, wrote the affidavit in support of the warrant. Her "primary
area of responsibility is in the investigation of human trafficking cases, both
domestic and international trafficking of persons," she wrote.

St. Paul Police Sgt. John Bandemer contacted Quinn in July and asked for
assistance "in locating a juvenile material witness who was needed in federal
court in Nashville ... in connection to the human trafficking investigation,"
Quinn wrote.

Quinn was given a copy of a material witness warrant for a 15-year-old girl.
Bandemer reported that the girl "had a long history of being a runaway and was
being victimized by a group of Somalian males who were promoting her into
prostitution," the affidavit said.

The BCA agent also spoke with St. Paul Police Officer Heather Weyker, who she
described as the lead detective for the investigation. Weyker said she had
interviewed the girl in July 2009 in connection with a Richfield robbery.

At the time, the girl "lied to Detective Weyker regarding her identity and her
involvement in prostitution," the affidavit said. "Since that time Detective
Weyker has interviewed with other witnesses of this human trafficking ring and
has learned" that the girl "was being controlled by the Somalian gangs and was
being promoted into prostitution," Quinn wrote.

With the cooperation of the girl's family, St. Paul Police and the FBI found the
girl and took her into custody on the material witness warrant on July 23. She
was escorted to Tennessee for testimony on July 28. After testimony, the girl
returned home and was reported to Minneapolis as a runaway on Aug. 2, the
affidavit said.

"Since that time" the girl "has been implicated in assaults in Rochester, Minn.,
and was arrested as an adult (she lied about her identity) for auto theft in
Olmsted County," Quinn wrote. The girl was cited for tampering with an auto and
transported to Ramsey County and then Hennepin County for outstanding warrants.
She was in custody as of Sept. 13, the day Quinn applied for the warrant.

"Through training and experience, your affiant is aware the victims of
prostitution are often beaten, threatened and used to promote illegal activity,"
Quinn wrote. "Persons who promote juveniles into prostitution will often become
the 'family' of the victim, which leads the victim into total isolation,
distrust of their own family, law enforcement and total involvement in the
prostitution culture."

The warrant, which was granted, was to search the girl's cell phone. Because the
girl "does not have a permanent home and often stayed with various members of
this prostitution gang," Quinn wrote that she believed the phone was the girl's
main way of communicating with others members of the organization, including
prostitution customers.

Quinn wrote that she was also looking for photos on the phone that could "reveal
the identity of suspects, witnesses and additional victims." The inventory
receipt does not describe what was found on the phone.

Regarding the warrant's availability, BCA spokeswoman Jill Oliveira said today:
"My understanding is it was filed and they made the decision to seal, but before
it was sealed it was accessed by some media." She said she didn't know if the
warrant was supposed to be sealed from the beginning.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 113 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Agriprocessors supervisor sentenced to 2 years

BYLINE: By Trish Mehaffey Cedar Rapids Gazette

SECTION: BREAKING; Business

LENGTH: 289 words


CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -- A former Agriprocessors Inc. supervisor was sentenced
Wednesday in U.S. District Court to two years in prison for harboring illegal
workers at the Postville kosher meatpacking plant.

Martin De La Rosa-Loera, 43, of Postville, pleaded guilty in August to one count
of aiding and abetting the harboring of undocumented workers. De La Rosa Loera
supervised about 70 poultry workers at Agriprocessors, according to court
records. In early May 2007, he told poultry workers they needed to change their
Social Security numbers and names to continue working at the plant. De La
Rosa-Loera also told them they would have to "start over" at the beginning wage
of $6.25 per hour.

In late April 2008, he received a list of several employees who were to be
fired, according to information disclosed in court.

He was told the listed employees had "bad" Social Security numbers, but then De
La Rosa-Loera's supervisors told him six of the most valuable workers could stay
if they acquired new documents, the information said.

He told a poultry lead person under his supervision to get new identification
documents and directed this person to tell five others on the list to do the
same thing, according to court records.

De La Rosa-Loera entered the United States illegally from Mexico in 1997,
according to court records. He worked at Agriprocessors illegally for several
years before becoming a naturalized citizen in 2002.

De La Rosa-Loera's arrest stemmed from the May 12 immigration raid at the plant
where Immigration Customs and Enforcement officials arrested nearly 400 illegal
workers. Sholom Rubashkin, former vice president of Agriprocessors, three other
employees and the company itself face charges stemming from the raid.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved
