
                               1 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 1, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Compromising on bill would put issue in park;
GOVERNOR SHOULDN'T RETREAT FROM PROPOSAL THAT MEETS CRITERIA HE LAID OUT EARLIER

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 443 words


In the latest round of the battle over driver's licenses for undocumented
immigrants, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is contradicting himself. Or his
surrogates are contradicting him.

Last year, Schwarzenegger agreed that undocumented immigrants should be able to
drive in California as long as they were issued distinctly different licenses
that could not be used as an official ID. It was a gutsy position, and he took a
lot of grief for it. Latino activists viewed it as discriminatory, and
conservatives within the Republican Party oppose any accommodation to illegal
immigrants.

But now that a bill meeting the governor's criteria is working its way though
the Legislature, he apparently has changed his mind again.

He shouldn't. A driver's certificate with a distinguishing mark for undocumented
immigrants is a good compromise on a contentious issue that has caromed between
the Legislature and two different governors five times in six years.

SB 60, sponsored by the persistent Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would
conform with the federal Real ID Act, which Congress passed this year. It
requires states to adopt uniform standards for issuing driver's licenses,
including multiple forms of identification. It would ban states from granting
regular licenses to undocumented immigrants but would permit non-ID driving
licenses or certificates for those who don't have Social Security numbers.

Although he hasn't commented directly, Schwarzenegger is said to oppose the bill
on two grounds.

His spokesman said it would be premature to approve legislation before the
federal Department of Homeland Security issues regulations spelling out what
states must do to comply with the Real ID Act. But that shouldn't jeopardize the
bill; licenses could be delayed until the federal rules are out.

Then, in legislative testimony this month, the deputy of the state Office of
Homeland Security, which answers to the governor, came out against the bill. He
said it might undermine efforts to detain criminals before they enter the United
States. It's hard to see how, since SB 60 would apply only to immigrants who
already are here.

SB 60 actually would add to our security, because undocumented immigrants who
get licenses would have their pictures and fingerprints entered into a state
database. They also would have to obtain car insurance and pass a driver's test.
That's preferable to the evasion and stealth that undermines the system today.

Schwarzenegger proposed the idea of a separate, limited permit for undocumented
immigrants; Congress permits it, and Cedillo has come to accept it.

Passing SB 60 would put the divisive issue to rest.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 24, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE MUDDLE;
GOVERNOR HAS A CLEAR REASON FOR OPPOSITION
WITHOUT SOME MARKING TO DISTINGUISH UNDOCUMENTED DRIVERS, LEGISLATION WILL NOT
GET PAST HIM

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 355 words


As expected, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed a bill granting driver's licenses
to illegal immigrants. The reason: his insistence that a license for the
undocumented be distinguishable.

In part, Schwarzenegger and the bill's chief advocate, Democratic Sen. Gil
Cedillo, remain far apart because they've muddied the issue. The governor hasn't
been clear why a different form of license is needed. Cedillo hasn't been
coherent about why he opposes it.

In his veto message, Schwarzenegger said, "This bill does not adequately address
the security concerns that my Department of Homeland Security and I have, and I
cannot support it." Yet Cedillo went to great lengths to address those concerns,
by requiring that illegal immigrants supply fingerprints, agree to a criminal
background check, and supply multiple forms of identification. These aren't
iron-clad proof of identification -- foreign-issued birth certificates and IDs
still may be suspect -- but they are reasonable protections.

The real reason for Schwarzenegger's opposition is defensible, even if he didn't
cite it. A driver's license has become a de facto national ID, used to board
airplanes and apply for many government services. As such, it should be reserved
for citizens and those who have arrived here legally. Schwarzenegger knows that
most Californians agree with this, even if they are sympathetic to allowing
illegal immigrants to drive.

Cedillo and his supporters condemn a differentiated license as a stigma. They
argue that it would make immigrants targets for harassment, even deportation.
And yet Latino groups have lobbied the Legislature and local governments to
authorize the use of consular IDs -- the matricula consular -- as official IDs
for some government services and police stops. It's illogical to argue that a
distinguishing driver's license would be discriminatory while encouraging the
use of the matricula.

Cedillo has vowed to try again next year, in what would appear to be an exercise
in futility. As long as Schwarzenegger is governor, it will take a different
shade of compromise: a distinctly different license.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 18, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA GOP FEARS REACTION FROM LATINOS;
PLAN WOULD DENY SERVICES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: LAURA KURTZMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1093 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


With thousands of people streaming across the Mexican border, Arizona voters are
being asked to approve a variation of California's infamous Proposition 187, the
anti-illegal-immigration measure that Gov. Pete Wilson rode to re-election in
1994, only to watch it destroy the Republican Party's chances of success for
nearly a decade.

Proposition 200 would deny services to illegal immigrants and require proof of
citizenship to register to vote. If it passes Nov. 2, Republicans fear -- and
Democrats hope -- the measure will have the same effect in Arizona that it did
next door: drive the state's rapidly growing Latino minority into the Democratic
Party's arms and give it a majority.

Arizona's Latinos appear to be more opposed to the measure than other voters,
and some are turning their ire on Republicans for supporting it. But even the
GOP is deeply split.

"I thought they would have enough guts to stand up against it," said Frank
Morales, 48, a Republican from Tucson who teaches drug and alcohol prevention in
schools. "I see some people who are for it. It kind of hurts me in a way,
because I thought we wouldn't be like that."

Illegal immigration has been a sleeper issue in the presidential race, hardly
meriting a mention until Wednesday's debate in Tempe, Ariz., when CBS News
correspondent Bob Schieffer asked President Bush and Sen. John Kerry how they
would control it, noting, "I got more e-mail this week on this question than any
other question."

Presidential debate

Both Bush and Kerry support expanded guest-worker programs, which are despised
by immigration opponents like those who sponsored the Arizona initiative.

As governor of Texas, Bush was known for opposing similar attempts to deal with
immigration there. But neither Bush nor Kerry has been willing to take a stand
on the politically charged Arizona initiative, which until recently had
overwhelming support from Republicans, Democrats and independents in the state.

Kathy McKee, founder and chair of Protect Arizona Now, the all-volunteer group
behind Proposition 200, said politicians like Bush and Kerry were promulgating a
myth that everyone crossing illegally from Mexico was here to work.

"We're trying to shrink the welfare state that is very much an incentive for a
lot of these people," she said. "Our government has opened the door and put the
red carpet down."

Proposition 200's popularity springs from the big increase in illegal-immigrant
arrests in Arizona in recent years as a result of tighter border controls in
California. For fiscal year 2004, which ended Sept. 30, nearly 600,000 illegal
immigrants were arrested in Arizona, almost three times as many as in
California.

The proof-of-citizenship requirement to register to vote also has a gut-level
appeal. Fifty percent of those polled by Northern Arizona University said it
made them more likely to support the measure.

"It sounds reasonable on its face," said Louis DeSipio, a political-science
professor at the University of California-Irvine. However, he said, it is
already a felony for non-citizens to vote, "and what little research has been
done on this, there is almost no evidence of undocumented immigrants voting."

Legal experts say the citizenship requirement makes the measure vulnerable to
challenge under the Voting Rights Act on the basis that it discriminates against
Latinos.

"It is clearly going to have the effect of discriminating against naturalized
citizens," said Pamela Karlan, a law professor at Stanford University. "And it
has the effect of sending a message that some people are just not very welcome
at the polls."

Proposition 200 initially registered support from 75 percent of voters. But that
has fallen sharply as opponents -- including the Chamber of Commerce,government
workers, interfaith groups and the state's congressional delegation -- have
campaigned against it, saying the measure will do more harm than good. For
example, they say the measure will lead to the spread of disease, by denying
immunizations to poor illegal immigrant children.

A Northern Arizona University poll released Friday found that 42 percent of
likely voters supported it, with 29 percent opposed and 29 percent undecided.

The measure, which would subject government workers to criminal penalties if
they failed to report suspected illegal immigrants, has inflamed the
Spanish-speaking community, many of whom are not citizens and therefore cannot
vote.

"This thing, to the Spanish-language community, is probably the greatest
motivator I've ever experienced," said former state legislator Alfredo
Gutierrez, a political-talk-show host on Spanish radio in Phoenix who is working
to defeat Proposition 200. "People feel like it's an issue and it's an attack
aimed specifically at them."

Gutierrez said reactions have been much cooler among English-speaking Latinos,
who tend to be more sympathetic toward placing restrictions on illegal
immigration.

It's not yet clear whether the measure will raise the community's historically
low voter turnout or spur new citizenship applications. Although one-quarter of
the state's population is Latino, only about 8 percent voted in the 2002
election, which had an especially high turnout for a mid-year election,
according to an analysis by Bruce Merrill, an Arizona pollster.

"They just don't vote," he said. "The Democrats usually go out and register a
lot of Hispanics who never vote."

Final registration figures are not yet available for this year.

Latino backlash

But the reaction among Spanish speakers to Proposition 200 tracks what happened
in California in the closing days of the battle over Proposition 187.

Although Latinos initially supported the measure, they turned against it after a
harsh campaign that many Latinos considered racist. Most provocative were the
television ads of people running across the highway.

In the following years, thousands of Latino immigrants who had lived in
California for years as permanent residents became citizens so they could
register to vote. Unlike a previous generation of Latino voters, who were more
conservative and Republican, this new group was strongly Democratic.
California's Latino electorate doubled, giving Democrats a reliable majority
that helped them win nearly every election until Arnold Schwarzenegger won the
recall last year.

"The shape of the turnout changed," said Mark DiCamillo, director of the
non-partisan Field Poll. "It is the primary demographic as to why California is
no longer in play in national politics."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2004

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 19, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARIZONA'S PROP. 200: DEJA GOOF;
WE KNOW ANTI-IMMIGRANT MEASURE IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL
IT FAILED HERE

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 598 words


My family abandoned Arizona for California long ago, when the future looked as
bleak as a tapped-out copper mine. Maybe that was a blessing. Had they stayed,
they might have fallen victim to the mass amnesia that's hit the desert state.

Arizona is about to vote on Proposition 200, which was modeled after
California's Proposition 187. Proponents are conveniently ignoring that it was
declared flat-out unconstitutional years ago. States may not deny health,
education and welfare benefits to illegal immigrants, because immigration is
strictly a federal responsibility.

Should be as clear as a desert sunset, right?

Why some fools in Arizona would think their version can pass the constitutional
test is a real brain twister.

For example, Proposition 200 would slap government workers with criminal
penalties if they failed to report suspected illegal immigrants. That sounds
awfully like Proposition 187, which tried to require public school teachers and
emergency room doctors to snitch on their undocumented wards.

We can credit the Arizonans for some originality. They would require illegal
immigrants to prove American citizenship when they register to vote. Now, we
Californians accused the undocumented of all manner of sin, but never did we
imagine them rushing to vote in the local school board elections that citizens
tend to avoid in droves.

Proposition 200 may have its own twists, but it's still an abominable state
attempt to seize control of the border and immigration policy. Even the rhetoric
is the same.

"We're trying to shrink the welfare state that is very much an incentive for a
lot of these people," Kathy McKee told the Mercury News. She's the founder and
chair of Protect Arizona Now, the volunteer group behind the initiative. "Our
government has opened the door and put the red carpet down."

The more I hear this sort of anti-government talk, the more I suspect folks in
Arizona just want to send a loud message to Washington about illegal
immigration. They can't be stupid enough to think they've come up with a
workable and constitutional answer to a complex problem, can they?

Here's what will happen on Election Day and after: Arizona will pass Proposition
200. A federal judge will shoot it down some months or years later. In between,
Mexican-American voters will turn against the Republican Party, which endorsed
the measure. Legal Mexican immigrants will finally wise up that their future is
here, become citizens and vote Democratic for generations to come.

This may pay off for the Latino and Democratic votes, but it still means the
nation is stuck in send-a-loud-message mode about illegal immigration. Nothing
got done after Proposition 187. Nothing will get done after Proposition 200
until we admit to the real problem and solution.

With or without papers, Mexicans have been pouring across the border for 156
years. Americans like it that way. So long as our economy is clicking, we take
the best jobs and educate our kids for lucrative brain work. Let the
undocumented clean toilets and carry bricks. But as soon as the economy sours,
we decide the problem is all these criminal border jumpers taking our jobs,
crowding our schools and draining our public services.

The solution is simple: economic development in Mexico. Poor Mexicans will stop
coming here when there's hope for a middle-class future at home. It's a
long-term answer requiring lots of American patience and aid. We can waste
millions or billions rounding them up here, only to see them return. Or we can
stop the madness by investing in Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 23, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSES: ONE-WAY ROAD;
THE REALITY IS, TO GAIN APPROVAL THEY MUST LOOK DIFFERENT SO THEY CANNOT SERVE
AS AN ID CARD

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 458 words


In his indefatigable pursuit to legalize driving for illegal immigrants, Sen.
Gilbert Cedillo should move over and hand the wheel to Assembly Speaker Fabian
Nunez.

Nunez understands it's time to do what it takes to get a bill passed. If that
means accepting a license for 2 million illegal immigrants that has a different
color, as Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger apparently insists, then fine, he says. A
distinct license is better than no license at all.

Cedillo, or "one-bill Gil" as some in Sacramento call the Los Angeles Democrat,
hasn't budged on that point, at least not publicly. As he readies for Round Five
-- introducing one more licensing bill next month, Cedillo is where he left off
when the governor vetoed the bill this fall.

Time may not be on his side. Republican leaders in the U.S. House are insisting
that any revived intelligence reform bill bar licenses to undocumented
immigrants nationwide. In California, conservative Republicans are busily
collecting signatures for a referendum that would ban driver's licenses and
other professional licenses, as well as higher education subsidies, for illegal
immigrants.

Led by Mike Spence, president of the Los Angeles County-based California
Republican Assembly, proponents have until February to collect 600,000
signatures for an initiative in June 2006. They've been emboldened by the
triumph this month of a mild version of California's Proposition 187, this time
in Arizona. It bars public services to illegal immigrants. It passed handily,
though leaders of both parties in Arizona campaigned against it.

Cedillo argues that his bill would make streets safer since immigrants who now
drive illegally would have to take a driver's test, buy insurance and submit
fingerprints to the Department of Motor Vehicles. To satisfy the governor's
security concerns, his bill would require background checks and multiple forms
of identification.

But a driver's license has become, in effect, a national ID card. Schwarzenegger
argues that the underlying documents from foreign countries -- consular IDs and
birth certificates -- are not tamper-proof and thus could be faked by terrorists
and criminals.

The sensible solution would be a different-looking license grantingillegal
immigrants only the right to drive -- not a carte blanche that can be used to
board airplanes and obtain other benefits and rights to which citizens and legal
immigrants are entitled.

Cedillo, who says he remains open to compromise, should drop his opposition to a
distinctly different license. Schwarzenegger should quickly strike a deal, and
agree to campaign actively against Spence's "Save Our License" proposition.

Sounds to us like a fair way to put this divisive issue to rest.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Illegal immigrants behind the wheel

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Cedillo
PHOTO: Nunez

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 19, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BALLOT BID FALLS SHORT;
AIMED AT ILLEGAL MIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 133 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


The leader of a signature drive to qualify a California ballot measure that
would deny state benefits -- including driver's licenses -- to illegal
immigrants announced Friday that the effort has failed.

Mike Spence, president of the California Republican Assembly, said the group
fell short of the 600,000 signatures it needed to turn in to the California
Secretary of State's Office by Feb. 22. The proposed constitutional amendment
was likened to Proposition 187. The 1994 measure would have denied public
benefits to illegal immigrants, but was gutted by legal challenges.

Specifically, the new effort would have barred the Legislature from granting
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, and cut their access to professional or
commercial licenses and higher education subsidies.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: California & the West news in brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 3, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL PASSES TO REVOKE LICENSES FOR MIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY


Utah immigrant-rights activists are angry over a newly passed bill that will
replace driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants with new driving
"privilege" cards, with some likening the measure to the marking of Jews during
the Holocaust.

Hundreds of immigrants quietly demonstrated at the Capitol as the Legislature
debated and passed the bill over the past week. If Gov. Jon Huntsman signs it,
as expected, the bill would take effect immediately, withholding regular
licenses from undocumented foreigners and revoking the licenses already held by
at least 58,000 immigrants on their birthdays.

The privilege card couldn't be used as identification to board a plane, open a
bank account or obtain another state's license.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 8, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUPS PROTEST LICENSE BILL;
IT WOULD END QUEST FOR IMMIGRANT DRIVERS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 501 words


Bay Area labor leaders joined forces with immigrant advocates Thursday in
denouncing the Real ID Act, proposed federal legislation that would prohibit
states from issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants.

The bill, which was attached to a war-appropriations bill, passed the House in
February. A version of the same bill is in the works in the Senate.

At a press conference in downtown San Jose on Thursday afternoon, Alejo
Ricardez, a member of the Carpenter's Union Local 405, said he has remained
hopeful that California will reach a compromise allowing undocumented immigrants
to get driver's licenses, even after unsuccessful efforts over the past several
years.

The passage of Real ID is "a scary thought," Ricardez said, because it's likely
to end a quest by immigrant advocates to get driver's licenses for undocumented
immigrants in the state.

Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wisconsin, sponsor of Real ID, has said that the
bill is a national security measure, meant to protect the country from
terrorists.

"Real ID is a response to vulnerabilities that were highlighted by 9/11," said
Jeff Lungren, spokesman for Sensenbrenner. "We're trying to bolster our homeland
security efforts and the war on terror."

The bill would require states to verify citizenship or permanent resident status
of people applying for a driver's license.

Among its other provisions, Real ID calls for completion of an unfinished
section of a fence on the U.S.-Mexico border near Tijuana and tougherstandards
for admitting people seeking political asylum in the United States.

At Thursday's press conference, immigrant advocates called on California Sens.
Diane Feinstein and Barbara Boxer to oppose the bill.

Neither Feinstein nor Boxer has taken a position on Real ID. Boxer opposes a
plan that would waive strict environmental regulations to allow the government
to build the border fence.

Howard Gantman, a spokesman for Feinstein, said the senator believes that the
issues raised in Real ID Act should be considered on their own merits and not
attached to an appropriations bill.

As the Senate considers Real ID, "it's important to educate the immigrant
community about its dangers," said Hong-An Tran, federal policy analyst for
SIREN, Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network, a San Jose-based
non-profit group.

"It's a misguided and mean-spirited legislation," said Tran, who is also
coordinator of VOICES -- Voting and Organizing in Immigrant Communities through
Education and Support -- a Santa Clara County group of immigrant community
leaders that called the press conference.

Musa Kumara, a refugee from Sierra Leone who came to the United States in 1997,
said he fears that Real ID will hurt America's image as a safe haven for those
fleeing political and ethnic persecution.

"Real ID scapegoats refugees and immigrants," said Sanjeev Bery, the San Jose
director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California. "It does
nothing to make us safer."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 1, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMPROMISING ON BILL WOULD PUT ISSUE IN PARK;
GOVERNOR SHOULDN'T RETREAT FROM PROPOSAL THAT MEETS CRITERIA HE LAID OUT EARLIER

DRIVER'S LICENSES FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 445 words


In the latest round of the battle over driver's licenses for undocumented
immigrants, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is contradicting himself. Or his
surrogates are contradicting him.

Last year, Schwarzenegger agreed that undocumented immigrants should be able to
drive in California as long as they were issued distinctly different licenses
that could not be used as an official ID. It was a gutsy position, and he took a
lot of grief for it. Latino activists viewed it as discriminatory, and
conservatives within the Republican Party oppose any accommodation to illegal
immigrants.

But now that a bill meeting the governor's criteria is working its way though
the Legislature, he apparently has changed his mind again.

He shouldn't. A driver's certificate with a distinguishing mark for undocumented
immigrants is a good compromise on a contentious issue that has caromed between
the Legislature and two different governors five times in six years.

SB 60, sponsored by the persistent Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, would
conform with the federal Real ID Act, which Congress passed this year. It
requires states to adopt uniform standards for issuing driver's licenses,
including multiple forms of identification. It would ban states from granting
regular licenses to undocumented immigrants but would permit non-ID
drivinglicenses or certificates for those who don't have Social Security
numbers.

Although he hasn't commented directly, Schwarzenegger is said to oppose the bill
on two grounds.

His spokesman said it would be premature to approve legislation before the
federal Department of Homeland Security issues regulations spelling out what
states must do to comply with the Real ID Act. But that shouldn't jeopardize the
bill; licenses could be delayed until the federal rules are out.

Then, in legislative testimony this month, the deputy of the state Office of
Homeland Security, which answers to the governor, came out against the bill. He
said it might undermine efforts to detain criminals before they enter the United
States. It's hard to see how, since SB 60 would apply only to immigrants who
already are here.

SB 60 actually would add to our security, because undocumented immigrants who
get licenses would have their pictures and fingerprints entered into a state
database. They also would have to obtain car insurance and pass a driver's test.
That's preferable to the evasion and stealth that undermines the system today.

Schwarzenegger proposed the idea of a separate, limited permit for undocumented
immigrants; Congress permits it, and Cedillo has come to accept it.

Passing SB 60 would put the divisive issue to rest.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SHAN CARTER -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTO ILLUSTRATION

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 23, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE ENDS BLOCK ON IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 42 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


A federal judge cleared the way Wednesday for a state initiative to become law,
more than a month after voters decided to deny some public benefits to illegal
immigrants.

Proposition 200 is a scaled-down version of California's Proposition 187.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News In Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 30, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER STANCE INFLAMES CAPITOL;
GOVERNOR'S COMMENTS ON IMMIGRATION DISTRACT HIM FROM STATE AGENDA

BYLINE: KATE FOLMAR, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 822 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


At a time when Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger hopes to revive his flagging effort to
overhaul state government, his comments on immigration are grabbing all the
attention.

Reaction was loud, emotional and pointed Friday, a day after he lauded America's
self-styled border patrollers in off-the-cuff remarks to a Southern California
radio station.

The furor comes a week after the governor apologized for suggesting that America
"close" its border with Mexico, saying he had misspoken.

The Republican governor, who won 31 percent of the Latino vote, has made an
awkward foray into the national immigration debate. And it's still a touchy
topic for the GOP more than a decade after then-Gov. Pete Wilson successfully
pushed for passage of the anti-illegal-immigrant Proposition 187.

Schwarzenegger was just heeding public concern, said Chris Simcox, an organizer
of the Minuteman Project -- the volunteers, some of them armed, now patrolling
the Arizona border. He said plans were "already under way" for volunteer border
monitors to work near San Diego and Calexico in June.

Analysts said making talk-radio pronouncements -- rather than advancing a
thoughtful immigration policy -- could harm the governor and the state.

"He's forsaking his minority base, his Latino base," said Harry Pachon,
president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute near Los Angeles. Praise for the
Minutemen is "ill-timed and it inflames the issue. It's almost like he's decided
to play to the conservative base in California, rather than to the center."

Thursday, Schwarzenegger called in to a Los Angeles-area talk radio program to
criticize billboards for a Spanish-language TV station that he thinks promote
illegal immigration. While chatting with the "John and Ken Show," Schwarzenegger
said the controversial Minutemen are doing "a terrific job."

Response was vigorous.

"He's condoning vigilantism and he's demonstrating a terrible understanding of
California's relationship with Mexico which has to be based on cooperation --
especially when it comes to border issues," said Democratic Controller Steve
Westly, a likely 2006 candidate for governor.

Added Assemblyman Hector De La Torre, D-South Gate: "I hope the governor is
ready to take responsibility for any deaths or other misdeeds that may result
from them coming here and increasing tensions along the border."

It was just over a week ago that Schwarzenegger made headlines by telling
newspaper executives that the government should "close the border." The governor
apologized a day later, saying he meant to say "secure" the border.

Then came the Minutemen comments.

The governor softened his tone somewhat at an event in Los Angeles on Friday,
invoking his immigrant heritage and praising those who pursue the American Dream
legally. But he did not back down.

"What I'm encouraging is to simply ask the federal government to do their job,"
he said. "Their job is to secure the borders, and they have not donetheir job.
And when the government, the state or the country doesn't do its job, then the
private citizens go out and it's like a neighborhood patrol. It's like they then
step in and they try to help."

Friday, Schwarzenegger press secretary Margita Thompson said of the Minutemen,
"At this point, the governor does not oppose them coming to California."

California's strict gun-control laws could well limit the Minutemen from armed
patrols here, depending on who owns the land they choose to patrol.

Thompson said the governor is not pursuing any particular agenda with his
comments. But when asked about an issue of national concern, Schwarzenegger
answers.

To be sure, immigration is a hot topic now. The Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks deepened the volatile political split over immigration. The debate pits
a growing number of politicians who want to halt illegal immigration mainly with
stronger border enforcement and deportations, against those who want a
comprehensive plan that would allow more immigrants to stay in the United States
as legal guest workers or eventually as U.S. citizens.

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., plan to introduce
comprehensive immigration legislation soon that is expected to mix tougher
enforcement with some sort of guest-worker program and a way for illegal
immigrants to earn legal status.

Schwarzenegger on Friday praised that approach.

On April 1, hundreds of volunteers from across the country arrived at Arizona's
leaky border to patrol for illegal crossings and report them to authorities.

Minutemen volunteers followed the state's laws, Simcox said. And they plan to
abide by California's "totalitarian" gun control laws as well, Simcox said.

But their presence in Arizona has been controversial. The U.S. Border Patrol
opposes the effort. And President Bush has expressed concerns about vigilantism,
although his press secretary downplayed that comment Friday.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writers Aaron C. Davis and Dion Nissenbaum contributed
to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: "They've done a terrific job, and they have cut down the crossing of
illegal immigrants a huge percentage. Our federal government is not doing their
job."
Gov. Schwarzenegger on the volunteer border monitors
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Lawrence Headrick has traveled to Arizona as part of an anti-illegal-
immigration effort that has drawn praise from California's governor.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 14, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Immigration reform touted as key to homeland security

BYLINE: By Nicole Gaouette; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, portraying immigration reform as a
vital weapon against terrorism, Wednesday pledged to tighten border security but
also called on Congress to approve a guest-worker program that would make it
easier for foreign workers to enter the United States legally.

''We must gain full control of our borders to prevent illegal immigration and
security breaches,'' Chertoff said. But, he added, ''control of the border will
also require reducing the demand for illegal border migration'' by channeling
needed workers through a new legal system. Implicit in the guest-worker program
would be an increase in the number of legal immigrants.

Guest-worker program

Chertoff vowed to carry his campaign for a guest-worker program as well as other
reforms to Capitol Hill in the weeks ahead.

By linking the controversial subject of immigration policy to the popular goal
of thwarting terrorists, Chertoff sought to give new impetus to President Bush's
stalled proposal for an expanded guest-worker program as well as enhanced border
security.

And, by linking the guest-worker plan to calls for tougher border controls, he
also sought to mollify those conservative Republicans in Congress who have
opposed such programs on grounds that enforcement must come first.

Immigration reform has been a particularly difficult issue for the Bush
administration politically. It pits many business-oriented Republicans, who
favor ready access to immigrant workers, against social conservatives, who
express outrage at the ease with which migrants evade U.S. laws.

Initial reaction from some congressional conservatives suggested Chertoff would
not have an easy sell with Congress.

''His chances are slim to none over here,'' said Rep. Thomas Tancredo, R-Colo.,
who founded and leads the pro-enforcement Immigration Reform Caucus in the
House.

''It's so annoying,'' he said, speaking of the White House and Chertoff.
''They've taken our rhetoric. They're using the right words: 'enforcement,'
'security.' What they're really describing is, 'If we make everybody legal,
we'll have solved the problem of illegal immigration in this country.' They use
the right words; they just don't do the right thing.''

Not all Republicans are as hostile to the administration's approach as Tancredo,
but he and other critics of the administration approach have been able to block
action thus far.

Chertoff's proposals for beefing up border controls and reshaping the agencies
responsible for them may get a better reception.

Enforcement stressed

''Without question, the most difficult problem the department has to face is
immigration enforcement,'' Rep. Christopher Cox, R-Newport Beach, chair of the
House Committee on Homeland Security, said. ''It's of vital importance.

''The INS bureaucracy that the new department inherited was roundly deemed
dysfunctional,'' he said. ''The Homeland Security Act reconstituted the pieces
of the INS in new ways, but the last few years have shown that the
organizational changes themselves were not enough.''

Chertoff's pitch for immigration reform was part of a long-awaited package of
proposals for streamlining and tightening the sprawling Department of Homeland
Security, which was rushed into being two years ago as part the federal
government's response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

With 183,000 workers pulled together from 22 federal agencies, the department
has been widely regarded as a bulky bureaucracy that needed top-to-bottom
reorganization.

Chertoff, a hard-driving former prosecutor and senior Justice Department
official, outlined a sweeping program of organizational and other changes in the
agency's structure, operations and priorities.

In remarks delivered to an auditorium crowded with department officials,
terrorism experts and others with a stake in department policy, Chertoff
identified his top priorities as preparation for catastrophic attacks,
information-sharing with state and local partners, and transportation security,
along with immigration reform and restructuring of the department's intelligence
unit.

Chertoff also said he is working with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to
''ease the path for those who wish to visit, study and conduct business in this
country.'' At the same time, as part of a package of changes designed to give
the department more precise information on who is entering the country, he
proposed more fingerprinting of first-time visitors.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2005 Monday

Next year's quota for foreign tech workers almost filled

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


Employers are closing in on the limit for hiring foreign high-tech workers for
jobs next year, roughly two months before the start of the 2006 fiscal year, an
immigration official said Monday.

The number of applications for the jobs, many of them in high-tech companies,
was nearly 52,000 as of Thursday, with 22,383 applications for H1-B visas
approved and 29,556 pending.

''The cap will definitely be hit before Oct. 1, which was when it was hit last
year,'' said Chris Bentley, spokesman for the agency that is part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

H1-B visas are granted to foreigners in specialty professions such as computer
programming. Under the program, employers must pay foreign workers the
prevailing wage for their job fields and show that qualified U.S. workers are
not being passed over.

Federal law provides 65,000 H1-B visas every fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
Of those, 6,800 are set aside for workers from Chile and Singapore.

Bentley said he could not predict when the cap would be hit because a flood of
applications could come in on a single day or be submitted over several days.

Employers, particularly high-tech companies, have long argued that not enough
H1-B visas are available.

Congress temporarily raised the number to 195,000 during the high-tech boom. In
April, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates, in a rare visit to Washington, lobbied the
Bush administration to lift the limit on H1-B visas, saying anyone with good
computer science training is not unemployed. Unions and other critics say the
program allows businesses to fill jobs with cheaper foreign labor.

Meanwhile, employers have used about half of the H1-B visas available this year
for foreign workers with advanced degrees in math and science. Congress provided
another 20,000 for foreigners with master's degrees or doctorates in those
fields, although the visas didn't become available until May. About 8,200
applications for those visas for the 2006 fiscal year have been approved or are
pending.

------

On the Net:

H1-B cap count: http://uscis.gov/graphics/services/tempbenefits/cap.htm

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 9, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Quota for high-tech foreign workers nearly filled

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa; Associated Press

SECTION: BU; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 337 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Employers are closing in on the limit for hiring foreign high-tech workers for
jobs next year, roughly two months before the start of the 2006 fiscal year, an
immigration official said Monday.

The number of applications for the jobs, many of them in high-tech companies,
was nearly 52,000 as of Thursday, with 22,383 applications for H-1B visas
approved and 29,556 pending.

''The cap will definitely be hit before Oct. 1, which was when it was hit last
year,'' said Chris Bentley, spokesman for the agency that is part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

H-1B visas are granted to foreigners in specialty professions such as computer
programming. Under the program, employers must pay foreign workers the
prevailing wage for their job fields and show that qualified U.S. workers are
not being passed over.

Federal law provides 65,000 H-1B visas every fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.
Of those, 6,800 are set aside for workers from Chile and Singapore.

Bentley said he could not predict when the cap would be hit because a flood of
applications could come in on a single day or be submitted over several days.

Employers, particularly high-tech companies, have long argued that not enough
H-1B visas are available.

Congress temporarily raised the number to 195,000 during the high-tech boom. In
April, Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates, in a rare visit to Washington, lobbied the
Bush administration to lift the limit on H-1B visas, saying anyone with good
computer science training is not unemployed. Unions and other critics say the
program allows businesses to fill jobs with cheaper foreign labor.

Meanwhile, employers have used about half of the H-1B visas available this year
for foreign workers with advanced degrees in math and science. Congress provided
an additional 20,000 for foreigners with master's degrees or doctorates in those
fields, although the visas didn't become available until May. About 8,200
applications for those visas for the 2006 fiscal year have been approved or are
pending.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 8, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Disaster notebook

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words




Aid groups scramble to help migrant workers

Foreign governments and Latino advocacy groups scrambled Wednesday to help an
especially vulnerable group of hurricane survivors: immigrants who often do not
speak English or have legal immigration status.

In a region coping with a devastated infrastructure, relief workers had to work
extra hard to reach immigrant victims, especially with a reported shortage of
bilingual volunteers.

Many victims compounded the challenge by hiding, but officials from Mexico and
Central America urged them to seek disaster relief, even if they are afraid
because they are illegal immigrants. Leaders also urged U.S. authorities not to
deport hurricane victims, and officials with the Department of Homeland Security
said immigration enforcement would take a back seat to saving lives.

The hurricane was especially devastating for Hondurans who have crossed the Gulf
of Mexico for decades to work at ports and fishing jobs in Louisiana.

TEXAS

Evacuees at Astrodome move to new homes, jobs

In a stunning turnaround for some of the most besieged victims of the hurricane,
the Astrodome population dwindled to about 3,000 on Wednesday from an estimated
15,000 over the weekend, with many people seizing on local job opportunities and
inexpensive housing.

Because of a building boom in Houston over the past few years, there is a glut
of affordable housing in this city of 4 million people. Hotels also are offering
a 14-day stay at no charge to storm victims, with reimbursements to come from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Add to that the outpouring of offers of
shelter across the country and an acknowledgment by the government that the
original estimates may have been high, and it appears that the Astrodome might
be empty soon.

Even though many of those in the Astrodome seem to be bracing for a long stay --
and the dome is gaining the trappings of normal life, with its own post office,
Internet cafe and medical center -- it increasingly looks like a temporary
society.

Stylists donate services to Katrina survivors

In the dark tunnels underneath the Astrodome, volunteer barbers and stylists
have set up a shop where Katrina's victims can get a shave or have their hair
done for free before they set out to rebuild their lives.

''What they are doing is priceless,'' said storm survivor Keith Anderson, a
41-year-old probation officer who waited in line for a shave and a haircut he
hoped would help him find a new home and a job.

Thousands of storm victims from New Orleans are sleeping on cots and standing in
line for showers at the Astrodome complex.

After seeing the victims' misery, stylist Terry Walter and his sister, Tiffany,
offered their services and recruited a few more stylists and barbers, all of
whom are donating their services and equipment.

Walter and his sister often stay until 4 a.m. each day, cutting, conditioning,
coloring, shaving and curling evacuees' hair.

''I was at home in tears, and I don't have too much stuff affect me like that.
But when you see so many people broken up, you know sometimes a good haircut
will put a smile on somebody's face,'' Terry Walter said. ''It just makes me
feel good.''

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Recipient repays favor of U.S. liberation in W.W. II

An anonymous donor turned up at a U.S. diplomatic office and presented an
envelope with 1,000 euros (about $1,245) for Hurricane Katrina relief efforts.

It was a way of repaying a debt to the United States for being liberated by U.S.
soldiers from a concentration camp and treated more than 60 years ago, Sean
McCormack, the State Department press secretary, said Wednesday in relating the
incident.

The donor was 90 years old, but that is all McCormack would say by way of
identification.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TECH VISA LOOPHOLE CLOSED BY CONGRESS;
PROGRAM ABUSED, CRITICS SAY

BYLINE: KARL SCHOENBERGER, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 969 words


An immigration reform measure quietly passed by Congress could sharply limit how
Indian offshoring companies use low-wage technology workers on temporary visas
in the United States.

The little-noticed legislation, tucked in a massive spending bill passed
Saturday, would close a loophole in regulations for the L-1 visa, which is
intended to allow foreign firms to transfer managers and employees with
specialized knowledge to their offices in the United States.

Critics of the offshoring industry say that L-1 visas are used far more broadly
and are being exploited to evade caps on the H-1B visa program for admitting
temporary skilled workers. Last year, 57,245 L-1 visas were granted -- nearly
one-third of them to Indian nationals.

The H-1B visa program, which helped provide workers for much of Silicon Valley's
tech boom, has been controversial. Some tech workers and political leaders argue
that the visas make it too easy for low-paid foreign workers to replace highly
paid Americans in software programming and other skilled tech jobs.

Under political pressure from the critics, the annual quota for H-1B visas has
been reduced to 65,000 in recent years -- not nearly enough to meet new demands
from the offshoring industry. In response, India's largest software contractors
have dramatically increased their reliance on L-1 visas. L-1 visas issued to
Indian nationals increased by nearly eight times between 1998 and 2003,
according to the State Department.

The leading offshoring companies -- Wipro, Infosys Technologies and Tata
Consultancy Services -- say they follow the letter of the law when sponsoring
L-1 workers. Typically, L-1 and H-1B employees work on site with U.S. clients to
provide support for contract work being done by their colleagues in India. The
offshoring companies say L-1 workers are legitimate in that role because they
don't work directly for the client.

But critics say the offshore companies, known derisively as "body shops," are
using the L-1 visa as a "back door" into the U.S. labor market while denying
American tech workers fair access to jobs and driving down wages.

The new legislation, which President Bush is expected to sign soon, would
require companies to keep L-1 visa holders under their direct managementcontrol
when working with a customer. L-1 visa holders couldn't work as subcontractors
or be supervised by the customer.

The tightening of the L-1 regulations by Congress will make it more difficult
for offshoring firms to dispatch manpower to client locations, said Greg
Siskind, an immigration attorney in Memphis who advises L-1 employers. "The L-1
was not being used properly by these companies" when they put workers at
customer facilities, he said.

However, Victor Chayat, a Tata spokesman, said Wednesday that the legislation
would not affect Tata's operations in the United States because the company is
already in compliance with the regulations. "We're providing software
development projects to our customers, not bodies," he said.

In a statement Tuesday, the National Association of Computer Consultant
Businesses, a Washington, D.C., trade group, applauded Congress for prohibiting
"the abuse of the L-1B visa by foreign IT consulting firms."

But advocates of more stringent reform said the measure did not go far enough.
Unlike the H-1B visa program, there is no limit on the number of L-1 visas that
can be approved, and there is scant oversight of how the visas are being used.

"The body shops are probably going to find a way to to go around this," said
Jack Martin, special projects director for the Washington-based Federation for
American Immigration Reform. "And it's going to be very difficult for a consular
official overseas to know how the applicant will be managed at the work site to
maintain compliance with the law."

The number of H-1B visas issued to Indian nationals is still about double that
of L-1 visas.

In tightening the L-1 program, Congress also passed a provision Saturday to make
available 20,000 more H-1B visas to foreigners who have earned graduate degrees
in U.S. universities. But these additional visas won't directly apply to India's
offshoring companies.

Tata, based in Mumbai, is one of the heaviest users of the L-1 visa. Chayat said
it had about 4,700 L-1 and 2,600 H-1B workers in the United States at the end of
March, but would not provide numbers for earlier years because Tata was
privately held until August.

Tata's L-1 workers were at the center of a highly publicized flap that triggered
calls for congressional reform.

In 2002, about 20 American employees at a Siemens plant in Florida were forced
to train their Tata replacements or lose their severance packages.

The laid-off employees questioned the logic of a visa intended for workers with
exclusive technical skills, when in fact they had to be trained by Americans
laid off ostensibly because they lacked such skills. They concluded it was all
about wages -- calculating that their Tata L-1 replacements made about a third
of their $70,000 salaries.

"There was nothing unique to Tata in what they were doing," said Michael Emmons,
42, one of the Florida workers. "Their long-term goal was to take the whole
thing to India, but they couldn't do that without knowledge transfer. And the
L-1 visa is the golden egg for knowledge transfer -- and taking our jobs
overseas."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
High demand for L-1 visas
Total H-1B and L-1 visas issued to Indian nationals
[Chart not taken in database]
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
High demand for L-1 visas
Total L-1 visas
[Chart not taken in database]
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
High demand for L-1 visas
Offshoring companies' reliance on visas
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts (3)

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 6, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

H-1B STANDARDS TIGHTENED;
RULES REQUIRE U.S. MASTER'S DEGREE
BUSINESS GROUPS, VALLEY ARE PLEASED

BYLINE: KARL SCHOENBERGER, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 347 words


In a move that will be welcomed by Silicon Valley companies, immigration
authorities have reversed a controversial interpretation of new legislation on
foreign workers that would have shrunk the number of visas for highly educated
technology workers.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services caused a furor in March when the
agency said it would not require higher educational standards from applicants
for the 20,000 H-1B visas Congress set aside for workers withadvanced degrees
from U.S. universities.

Those visas were on top of the 65,000 annual limit for ordinary H-1B visa
applications, which require only bachelor's degrees from skilled guest workers.

But the agency quietly disclosed in a notice on its Web site Wednesday that it
had reversed its decision and that qualified applicants for the 20,000
additional H-1B visas should have a "minimum master's level degree from a U.S.
academic institution." The notice said USCIS would begin taking applications on
May 12 -- two months behind schedule.

"It was the right thing to do and the best thing to do," said Sandra Boyd, chair
of the pro-business group Compete America, which lobbied Congress to expand the
H-1B cap with extra visas reserved for applicants holding advanced U.S. degrees.
"The agency certainly heard from us, and they heard from members of Congress. I
don't know if there was anyone on the other side of the issue."

Critics allege that the immigration agency initially gave a loose interpretation
to the H-1B Visa Reform Act of 2004 because it had mistakenly accepted as many
as 10,000 too many applications for the current fiscal year's 65,000 regular
H-1B visas and needed to find slots for those workers. But agency spokesman
Chris Bently said Thursday the two issues were never related, and that the USCIS
has improved its counting mechanisms to prevent granting visas beyond the annual
cap.

The delay in implementation of the legislation, which passed Congress in
November, has caused disruption in hiring plans for many companies in Silicon
Valley and placed students in limbo.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 5, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

California news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 620 words




SAN DIEGO

Hundreds protest civilian border patrol

More the 250 activists demonstrated against a civilian border patrol group and
other organizations that oppose illegal immigration during a march near the
U.S-Mexico border.

Protesters banged drums, chanted and burned sage Sunday as they wound through
San Ysidro in San Diego County, crossing an Interstate 5 overpass that overlooks
the busy San Ysidro border crossing.

Organized by a coalition of immigrant rights groups, Gente Unida, the
demonstration took aim at the Minuteman Project and other groups seeking tighter
border security.

''Minuteman and other vigilante groups are not Neighborhood Watch,'' said
Enrique Morones of the Border Angels, a group that sets up desert water stations
for immigrants. ''We set the agenda, not them.''

Minuteman Project founder Jim Gilchrist defended the group, which has attracted
hundreds of volunteers to the Arizona-Mexico border since April to watch for
illegal immigrants.

''The Minutemen want the U.S. to return to the rule of law and sovereignty,''
Gilchrist said.

''Are we biased against illegal aliens? Absolutely. Are we biased against legal
immigrants? No, we are not.''

LAKE FOREST

Police chase, shootout end in death, arrest

A woman wanted for questioning in a California missing-persons case was killed
and her husband was arrested after a 40-mile chase and shootout in northern
Colorado, authorities said.

Nicholas Vovos, 22, of Lake Forest, was arrested after the shootout Sunday at a
gas station just off Interstate 76 at Lochbuie, about 25 miles northeast of
Denver.

His wife, Deborah Sue Miller Vovos, 39, was killed. It was unclear whether she
was shot by police or turned a gun on herself, police said.

The couple were wanted for questioning in the disappearance of Carolyn Dunn
Avdeef, 62, of Lake Forest, who was last seen by her family June 15.

ORANGE

Gunman kills 1, injures 3 before shooting himself

A 66-year-old gunman allegedly killed one person and wounded three others at an
Orange County mobile home, exchanging fire with police before turning the gun on
himself, authorities said.

Joel Martin allegedly shot neighbor Adene Bright and her daughter, Reba Newman,
with a .22-caliber rifle at the Santiago Creek Orange Mobile Home Park on Sunday
afternoon, police said.

Bright, believed to be in her 70s or 80s, was killed and Newman, 59, underwent
surgery for a gunshot wound, the Orange Police Department said in a statement.

Martin then allegedly opened fire and slightly wounded residents Donald
Andersen, 65, and Sonia Andersen, 66, as they sat on their porch across the
street.

FILLMORE

Pair held in illegal sale of fireworks out of car

Sheriff's deputies seized more than 200 pounds of bottle rockets, Roman candles
and mortars from two people accused of illegally selling fireworks out of their
vehicle in Ventura County.

Juan Campos, 35, and Laureena Sowell, 23, were arrested Sunday night for
investigation of possessing dangerous fireworks and selling them without a
permit at a Taco Bell parking lot in Fillmore, according to sheriff's department
statement.

FRESNO

Airport firefighters, police duties separated

For the first time in 20 years, firefighters and police at Fresno Yosemite
International Airport will have separate duties.

''Police officers will function for security only, and firefighters will do
fires only,'' said Fresno police Lt. Tony Bennink, head of the city's Department
of Homeland Security and Airport Unit.

The airport officers who patrol the terminal and grounds also operate fire
trucks on the runway.

The transition is set to go into effect Oct. 1.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 8, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Poll finds most in state believe illegal immigration rising

BYLINE: By Katherine Corcoran; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 318 words


Like their counterparts in other border states, most California voters believe
illegal immigration is on the rise, and they maintain a high level of concern
about the issue, according to a new Field Poll released today.

Still, a majority of state voters oppose the use of border citizen patrol groups
such as the Minutemen, and residents are split on whether Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger should declare a state of emergency.

One immigrant rights advocate said she is not surprised that Californians take a
more tempered view of solutions. ''I like to think that's because of our
diversity,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network in San Jose. ''But I also think it's because of the
lessons learned where we have seen drastic measures that are popular take place,
and they have harmed our state rather than helped. I'm thinking mostly about
Proposition 187.''

Proposition 187, passed in 1994, denied public benefits to undocumented
immigrants. Though many of its provisions were later declared unconstitutional,
its passage created a legacy of division and distrust.

According to the new Field Poll, 63 percent of voters believe the number of
illegal immigrants is rising -- but 56 percent oppose citizen action. The only
groups favoring such patrols are Republicans and voters age 65 or older.

Respondents were more divided on the need to declare a state of emergency, with
44 percent in favor, 40 percent opposed and 16 percent undecided.

Latino voters are overwhelmingly opposed, while whites favor declaring a border
emergency. Blacks, Asians and other racial and ethnic groups are split.

The results are based on a random sample of 615 California adults contacted by
telephone Aug. 19-29, including 426 registered voters. The margin of error was
plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 14, 2005 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DRIVER'S LICENSE BATTLE HAS POSSIBLE SOLUTION

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 418 words


Legislation with troubling immigration restrictions passed the U.S. House last
week. President Bush has endorsed it.

At first glance, the bill appears to doom a longstanding campaign by Latino
lawmakers in California to grant driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. But
actually, it highlights a possible compromise: issuing a different permit to the
undocumented.

In the past, Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, the prime mover behind licenses
for illegal immigrants, has denounced such an alternative as racist. Perhaps,
seeing that time is working against him, he will come around. Doing so should
give Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger political cover, too. While he has said he
favors a distinctive license for illegal immigrants, of late he has thrown up
enough hurdles to run a 110-meter race.

Sponsors of the Real ID Act that the House approved say it is intended to
prevent terrorists like the Sept. 11 hijackers from getting driver's licenses.
The bill doesn't preclude states from issuing them to illegal entrants. But it
mandates that residents of states that don't require applicants to prove they're
citizens or legal immigrants cannot use their licenses for federal purposes,
like boarding a plane or entering federal buildings. The presumption is that
Utah, North Carolina and the other eight states that license illegal immigrants
will change their laws to comply.

The bill would not prevent a state from issuing two forms of licenses: a
standard license, which would meet the law's vetting demands, and a version for
those who can't prove legal residency. It could be clearly marked "invalid for
ID purposes." California could still require those applicants to submit
fingerprints and undergo background checks.

Cedillo and opponents of a two-tier system say a distinctive license would leave
illegal immigrants vulnerable to discrimination. But they have undercut that
argument by calling on the police and other government agencies to recognize
another distinctive document -- a consular ID, the matricula consular -- as an
official ID.

Among other disturbing provisions, the Real ID Act would make it harder for
refugees fleeing torture and persecution to get asylum. The bill faces
opposition from Democrats, immigration groups and the National Governors
Association.

Passage in the Senate is far from certain. But at least in California, Cedillo
and Schwarzenegger can put a divisive issue to rest by giving illegal immigrants
a license that can be used only for driving.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 19, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAL-MART TO PAY $11 MILLION FINE OVER USE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS;
CONTRACTORS WHO HIRED THE JANITORS TO PAY $4 MILLION

BYLINE: CHUCK BARTELS, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK


Wal-Mart Stores escaped criminal charges but agreed Friday to pay $11 million, a
record fine in a civil immigration case, to end a federal probe into its use of
illegal immigrants to clean floors at stores in 21 states.

A dozen contractors who actually hired the laborers for work inside stores for
the world's largest retailer agreed to plead guilty to criminal immigration
charges and together pay an additional $4 million in fines.

"This case breaks new ground not only because this is a record dollar amount for
a civil immigration settlement, but because this settlement requires Wal-Mart to
create an internal program to ensure future compliance with immigration laws by
Wal-Mart contractors and by Wal-Mart itself," said Michael J. Garcia, assistant
secretary for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

"We plan to use this settlement as a model for future cases and efforts in work
site enforcement," he said.

Wal-Mart received a target letter from a grand jury in Pennsylvania and was the
subject of an October 2003 raid spanning 21 states and 60 stores. The raids led
to the arrest of 245 allegedly illegal immigrants.

Wal-Mart, which has 1.2 million domestic workers, had pledged its cooperation in
the investigation.

"We are satisfied that this is being settled as a civil matter," Wal-Mart
spokeswoman Mona Williams told the Associated Press from the company's
Bentonville, Ark., headquarters. "Despite a long, thorough and high-profile
investigation, the government has not charged anyone at Wal-Mart with
wrongdoing."

Federal officials said the fine money would go to the Treasury Forfeiture Fund
and will be spent on "promoting future law enforcement programs and activities
in this field by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement."

Williams said the government can spend the money for training and initiatives
that "help make sure service companies or anyone else can't prey on undocumented
workers."

"We think the money will be well spent," Williams said.

Williams, in a conference call later, made reference to Wal-Mart's "ongoing
partnership with the government" and said the company is making a number of
changes.

No longer does Wal-Mart employ outside contractors to clean its floors.
Companies that do contract work for other chores will have stricter rules to
follow to win those contracts, and upper management will have to approve
contracts of more than $10,000, Williams said.

Steps taken

"We've put stronger internal controls in place so hopefully nothing like this
would happen again," Williams said.

The probe began in 1998 and ended with the big raids on Oct. 23, 2003.

Among those arrested in the raids were eight people who worked for Wal-Mart
itself. Williams said the eight had been hired from floor-cleaning companies as
Wal-Mart began to clean its floors with its own workers. Williams said those
workers had documents that appeared to be valid and said the law prevented the
company from challenging those documents.

"We were between a rock and a hard place," she said.

Williams said no executives or mid-level managers knew the contractors had hired
illegal immigrants, a statement reflected in the consent decree.

Workers from 18 nations

Workers picked up in the October raids came from 18 different nations, including
90 from Mexico, 35 from the Czech Republic, 22 from Mongolia and 20 from Brazil,
officials said. In all, two separate investigations resulted in arrests of 352
illegal immigrants contracted as janitors at Wal-Mart stores. Officials say a
third of the workers have been deported to their home countries. Lawyers for
some of the workers claim they worked as many as seven days a week, were not
paid overtime and did not receive injury compensation.

An employer can face civil and criminal penalties for knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants or failing to comply with certain employee record-keeping
regulations.

WHAT HAPPENED
* NO CHARGES: Wal-Mart Stores resolves allegations it had illegal immigrants
cleaning its stores by paying an $11 million fine.

* BIG RAID: The case entered the public eye with raids at 60 Wal-Mart stores
across 21 states that netted the arrest of 352 alleged illegal immigrants. About
a third of them have been deported. Neither the company nor any of its
executives were charged.

* CHANGES: Wal-Mart has moved all of its floor cleaning to in-house crews and is
making changes that will make it harder for a contractor to get business with
Wal-Mart and use illegal workers.

Source: Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
CAPTION: PHOTO: HARAZ GHANBARI -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Michael Garcia of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement announces that
Wal-Mart Stores has agreed to pay $11 million to settle federal allegations that
it used hundreds of illegal immigrants to clean its stores.
PHOTO: HARAZ GHANBARI -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Michael J. Garcia of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Friday in
Washington, "This case breaks new ground not only because this is a record
dollar amount for a civil immigration settlement, but because this settlement
requires Wal-Mart to create an internal program to ensure future compliance with
immigration laws by Wal-Mart contractors and by Wal-Mart itself."

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 5, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUNDREDS PROTEST CIVILIAN BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More the 250 activists demonstrated against a civilian border patrol group and
other organizations that oppose illegal immigration during a march near the
U.S-Mexico border.

Protesters banged drums, chanted and burned sage Sunday as they wound through
San Ysidro in San Diego County, crossing an Interstate 5 overpass that overlooks
the busy San Ysidro border crossing.

Organized by a coalition of immigrant rights groups, Gente Unida, the
demonstration took aim at the Minuteman Project and other groups seeking tighter
border security.

"Minuteman and other vigilante groups are not Neighborhood Watch," said Enrique
Morones of the Border Angels, a group that sets up desert water stations for
immigrants. "We set the agenda, not them."

Minuteman Project founder Jim Gilchrist defended the group, which has attracted
hundreds of volunteers to the Arizona-Mexico border since April to watch for
illegal immigrants.

"The Minutemen want the U.S. to return to the rule of law and sovereignty,"
Gilchrist said.

"Are we biased against illegal aliens? Absolutely. Are we biased against legal
immigrants? No, we are not."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                           December 1, 2004 Wednesday

Immigrant license issue roars to life

BYLINE: David M. Drucker - SACRAMENTO BUREAU

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Ignoring stiff opposition by the administration, a state legislator plans to
re-introduce the same proposal to grant driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed in September. "We can be thoughtful and
methodical like last year in meeting with the governor -- the Michael Corleone
style -- or we can do the Sonny Corleone style and go to the mattresses and make
it a big public fight for nine months," said a spokesman for Sen. Gilbert
Cedillo, D-Los Angeles.

The Republican governor vetoed a bill granting illegal immigrants driver's
licenses in September, saying it did not contain the necessary security
precautions. The governor wants such licenses to be obviously marked so that
anyone looking at one will know it belongs to an immigrant -- though not
necessarily an illegal immigrant.

Cedillo opposes a marked license, and has touted support from some quarters of
Los Angeles' Jewish community that have called Schwarzenegger's demands akin to
the Nazi Germany law requiring Jewish citizens to wear a yellow Star of David on
their clothes at all times. In any case, the senator has no intention of
proposing a bill that meets the governor's demands.

"We've been chanting this mantra since early June: Governor, give us a
counter-proposal. You've had our proposal, why not give us something back in
writing?" said Cedillo press secretary Edward Headington.

An administration spokeswoman said countering Cedillo's proposal in writing
unnecessary.

"The governor's been pretty clear with what he needs," said Margita Thompson,
Schwarzenegger's press secretary. "I don't know how much clearer he needs to
be."

Cedillo, who was out of the country Monday and unavailable for comment,
maintains his bill --dubbed the Immigrant Responsibility and Security Act --
addresses Schwarzenegger's security concerns.

It would require illegal-immigrant applicants to present some form of
indentification to the Department of Motor Vehicles -- such as a Matricula
Consular card -- and to submit to and pay for a criminal background check.
Identification documents issued by countries designated as state sponsors of
terrorism by the U.S. would not be accepted.

Applicants would also have to sign a document acknowledging the limitations of
their driver's license and provide an affidavit with their address.

Schwarzenegger, in remarks made during a Nov. 3 news conference, called these
provisions inadequate.

"Just by fingerprinting people and looking at the background without knowing who
they are and what their names are doesn't make any sense at all," he said.
"Fifty percent of the Matricula cards are falsified, they're not real."

Former Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill authored by Cedillo that granted driver's
licenses to illegal immigrants just prior to being recalled in October 2003. But
Schwarzenegger, fulfilling a key campaign promise, led a successful effort to
repeal it within weeks of taking office last November.

Cedillo voted to repeal his own bill, because, he said, Schwarzenegger promised
to negotiate with him and develop a bill that would make it lawful for illegal
immigrants to drive without sacrificing the governor's security concerns.
Schwarzenegger does not want illegal immigrants to be able to use licenses to
board planes or open bank accounts.

The Schwarzenegger administration says it is continuing to make a "good faith
effort" to find a solution, but Cedillo claims the governor is stalling for
political purposes. "At this point, the action governor is guilty of inaction,"
Headington said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                                 Copyright 2004


                              24 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 8, 2005 Thursday

Assembly OKs driver's licenses for illegal immigrants

BYLINE: By Aaron C. Davis; Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


The California state Assembly late Wednesday night again narrowly approved a
bill to allow illegal immigrants to get state driver's licenses.

The bill, SB 60, which was approved by a vote of 42-34, would establish a class
of driver's licenses marked by a different color and design. They would permit
driving but would not be accepted by federal law enforcement as identification
for airline travel or other purposes.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger repealed a similar law in 2003 and vetoed another
version last year, saying it didn't include adequate security provisions. State
Sen. Gilbert Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, however, said this time he hopes the
governor will support the measure because the licenses would look different than
those issued for U.S. citizens -- and they would comply with new federal
security guidelines approved by Congress.

''This bill is different than those in the past. This bill is intended to
conform in all ways with the federal Real ID Act,'' said Assemblyman Joe Coto,
D-San Jose, citing the new federal law that requires drivers in all 50 states to
show proof of a Social Security number, a birth certificate and lawful status to
receive a driver's license. The law also allows states to issue licenses of a
unique design or color to illegal immigrants, so long as they are clearly marked
as an unofficial ID.

Republicans denounced the bill as a horrible precedent that would hamper
national security. They noted the Department of Motor Vehicles and the Homeland
Security Department opposed the bill, which critics say could cost the state $80
million annually.

''This is rewarding the breaking of the law,'' said Mark Wyland, R-Vista. ''This
is a method of legitimizing people who have come here illegally.''

Assemblyman Meryvn Dymally, D-Compton, argued in favor of the bill:

''This has nothing to do with terrorism. It has to do with survival,'' Dymally
said. ''People working in the hot fields. If they did not have a license, how do
they get there?''

A Field Poll released in March found the contentious measure opposed by 62
percent of Californians. The poll also showed a deep split between Latinos and
non-Latinos: Three out of four non-Hispanic whites opposed the licenses; nearly
two in three Latinos favored it.

If signed by Schwarzenegger, the bill would require the state's Department of
Motor Vehicles to begin issuing the new class of driver's licenses within 240
days.

Contact Aaron C. Davis at acdavis@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 22, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Youths allowed to stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By Nicholas Riccardi; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


In a dramatic reversal, an immigration judge ruled Thursday that four honors
students who faced deportation after being caught by immigration agents while on
a trip to a science competition could stay in the United States.

The students came to court expecting to be deported in what was to be the final
hearing in their three-year battle to stay in the United States. But Judge John
Richardson sided with their attorneys, who argued that the government's evidence
that the youths had been brought to the country illegally as young children was
invalid because immigration authorities in Buffalo, N.Y., had violated the
students' rights.

''I thought I was really gone,'' Luis Nava, 20, told reporters moments after the
decision. ''It was a real surprise.''

''It's a big victory,'' said Judy Flanagan, one of the youths' attorneys. ''We
were looking at the prospect of the students having to leave the U.S.''

The Phoenix office of the Immigration and Custom Enforcement agency said it
reserved its right to appeal the ruling to a panel of immigration judges.

Rick Oltman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supports
tighter restrictions on immigration, said that if the youths' rights were
violated, the ruling should stand. ''We support the law,'' he said.

But he said there will be additional cases such as this one as children of
illegal immigrants grow up and that those youths cannot stay in limbo.

''Clearly, something needs to be determined here so we can either remove the
impediments to deportation, or allow the people who've been here to adjust their
status,'' Oltman said.

The case of the ''Wilson Four'' -- named after the students' high school -- has
transfixed Phoenix for years. The students were part of an after-school workshop
on solar energy when they traveled to Buffalo for a national competition in
building a solar-powered boat.

In their testimony, they described how their teachers took them to Niagara
Falls, where immigration agents became suspicious of the students because they
were Latinos and held them for nine hours without letting them contact
attorneys. The agents approached some of the students and, after determining one
was illegal, demanded their teachers bring the rest in for interrogation.

Yuliana Huicochea, now 20, testified that while waiting in the immigration
office in 2002, a supervisor told her that she and her classmates stood out.
''In Arizona, everyone's Hispanic; no one would question your status,'' she
quoted the official as telling her. ''But here in Buffalo, someone was going to
ask questions.''

The students' principal testified that the immigration officers in Buffalo
demanded that the school fax the students' birth certificates immediately, or
the youths would be deported to Mexico that night.

''It's outrageous kids are treated this way,'' Flanagan said. ''They were on a
school field trip.''

Unless the government appeals and succeeds, the four will be able to stay in the
United States. They said they would try to become citizens.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     August 10, 2005 Wednesday PS1 EDITION

Muslim cleric denied bail;
LODI IMAM FOSTERED SCHOOL FOR TERRORISTS, FBI AGENT TESTIFIES

BYLINE: By Pete Carey; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words


An immigration judge denied a Lodi Muslim cleric bail Tuesday, saying that based
on the evidence presented by the FBI at a deportation hearing, he was ''a flight
risk and a danger to the community.''

FBI agent Gary Shaaf testified that Shabbir Ahmed, 39, head of the Lodi Muslim
Mosque, was helping establish a conservative Islamic school in Lodi that would
be used for attacks in the United States at some unspecified time.

The startling testimony came during a bond hearing in San Francisco for Ahmed,
who has been in jail since immigration authorities detained him in Sacramento on
visa violations.

The hearing followed the arrest and detention in June of five members of a
mosque that has shaken the religious community in the Central Valley town of
Lodi. A father and son were arrested in June on charges of lying to the FBI
about the son's six months at a Pakistani terrorist training camp, while Ahmed
and two others were detained on visa violations.

Shaaf said he based his conclusions ''on some of the information that's been
provided to us'' but said that the sources were confidential.

Ahmed's lawyer later called the allegations ''ridiculous'' and noted that his
client has not been charged with any terror-related crimes, but merely with a
visa violation.

The allegations come from the father and son who have been charged with lying to
the FBI, the lawyer said. The agent said the FBI had ''other sources'' as well.

''My client can leave any time he wants, but he wants to fight,'' lawyer Saad
Ahmad of Fremont told reporters after the hearing. ''He believes he should not
be removed unjustly.'' Ahmad said he would appeal Judge Anthony Murry's denial
of bail. A hearing on the merits of the government's case is scheduled for Oct.
24.

Two members of the Lodi mosque testified as character witnesses, noting that the
imam had preached obedience to U.S. law and had made outreach to Christian and
Jewish religious groups a priority.

Clad in an orange Sacramento County Jail jumpsuit, Ahmed testified through an
Urdu interpreter that he loves the United State. ''I am living here. This is my
country,'' he said.

He said that anti-U.S. speeches he gave in Pakistan in the months after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were emotional crowd-pleasers delivered in
protest of U.S. bombing in Afghanistan. At the time, allied forces were ousting
Afghanistan's Taliban government, which had given a haven to Osama bin Laden and
his Al-Qaida terrorist organization.

Ahmed arrived from Pakistan on a religious visa in January 2002 to take the
place of his mentor and fellow Pakistani, Mohammed Adil Khan, who had been the
Lodi mosque's imam but was concentrating on developing the Islamic school
nearby.

The clerics were tripped up by an FBI investigation and the arrest of a father
and son -- Umer and Hamid Hayat of Lodi -- on charges of lying to the FBI about
the 22-year-old Hamid's attendance at a Pakistani terrorist training camp for
six months in 2003 and 2004 while he was living with his grandfather, who ran a
conservative religious school.

Ahmed, Khan and Khan's son, Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, were detained on visa
violations. The Khans have agreed to be deported.

The FBI agent testified that Khan had suggested the young Hayat visit Pakistan
and study at his grandfather's school, and Shabbir Ahmed encouraged it. The
agent said the youth told the FBI that he had been trained at the terrorist camp
and was told that orders for any attacks on the United States would be delivered
to him through the two clerics, Ahmed and Khan. Shaaf said the orders would come
to Khan from a radical political figure in Pakistan, Maulana Fazil Rehman.

Ahmed's lawyer said the elder Hayat merely had asked for help managing an unruly
son.

Before coming to the United States, Khan taught at the Jamia Farooqia, a large
Islamic school in Karachi founded by his father, Salimullah Khan, a prominent
conservative religious figure in Pakistan. Shabbir Ahmed was a top student who
taught at the school after graduation, then moved to Islamabad to become imam of
a mosque there.

Shaaf testified that the Jamia Farooqia taught an ultra-conservative,
''Deobandi'' variety of Islam that was favored by the Taliban.

Contact Pete Carey at (408) 920-5419 or pcarey@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     August 10, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Muslim cleric denied bail;
FBI AGENT TESTIFIES LODI IMAM FOSTERED SCHOOL FOR TERRORISTS

BYLINE: By Pete Carey; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words


An immigration judge denied a Lodi Muslim cleric bail Tuesday, saying that based
on the evidence presented by the FBI at a deportation hearing, he was ''a flight
risk and a danger to the community.''

FBI agent Gary Shaaf testified that Shabbir Ahmed, 39, head of the Lodi Muslim
Mosque, was helping establish a conservative Islamic school in Lodi that would
be used for attacks in the United States at some unspecified time.

The startling testimony came during a bond hearing in San Francisco for Ahmed,
who has been in jail since immigration authorities detained him in Sacramento on
visa violations.

The hearing followed the arrest and detention in June of five members of a
mosque that has shaken the religious community in the Central Valley town of
Lodi. A father and son were arrested in June on charges of lying to the FBI
about the son's six months at a Pakistani terrorist training camp, while Ahmed
and two others were detained on visa violations.

Shaaf said he based his conclusions ''on some of the information that's been
provided to us'' but said that the sources were confidential.

Ahmed's lawyer later called the allegations ''ridiculous'' and noted that his
client has not been charged with any terror-related crimes, but merely with a
visa violation.

The allegations come from the father and son who have been charged with lying to
the FBI, the lawyer said. The agent said the FBI had ''other sources'' as well.

''My client can leave any time he wants, but he wants to fight,'' lawyer Saad
Ahmad of Fremont told reporters after the hearing. ''He believes he should not
be removed unjustly.'' Ahmad said he would appeal Judge Anthony Murry's denial
of bail. A hearing on the merits of the government's case is scheduled for Oct.
24.

Two members of the Lodi mosque testified as character witnesses, noting that the
imam had preached obedience to U.S. law and had made outreach to Christian and
Jewish religious groups a priority.

Clad in an orange Sacramento County Jail jumpsuit, Ahmed testified through an
Urdu interpreter that he loves the United State. ''I am living here. This is my
country,'' he said.

He said that anti-U.S. speeches he gave in Pakistan in the months after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were emotional crowd-pleasers delivered in
protest of U.S. bombing in Afghanistan. At the time, allied forces were ousting
Afghanistan's Taliban government, which had given a haven to Osama bin Laden and
his Al-Qaida terrorist organization.

Ahmed arrived from Pakistan on a religious visa in January 2002 to take the
place of his mentor and fellow Pakistani, Mohammed Adil Khan, who had been the
Lodi mosque's imam but was concentrating on developing the Islamic school
nearby.

The clerics were tripped up by an FBI investigation and the arrest of a father
and son -- Umer and Hamid Hayat of Lodi -- on charges of lying to the FBI about
the 22-year-old Hamid's attendance at a Pakistani terrorist training camp for
six months in 2003 and 2004 while he was living with his grandfather, who ran a
conservative religious school.

Ahmed, Khan and Khan's son, Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, were detained on visa
violations. The Khans have agreed to be deported.

The FBI agent testified that Khan had suggested the young Hayat visit Pakistan
and study at his grandfather's school, and Shabbir Ahmed encouraged it. The
agent said the youth told the FBI that he had been trained at the terrorist camp
and was told that orders for any attacks on the United States would be delivered
to him through the two clerics, Ahmed and Khan. Shaaf said the orders would come
to Khan from a radical political figure in Pakistan, Maulana Fazil Rehman.

Ahmed's lawyer said the elder Hayat merely had asked for help managing an unruly
son.

Before coming to the United States, Khan taught at the Jamia Farooqia, a large
Islamic school in Karachi founded by his father, Salimullah Khan, a prominent
conservative religious figure in Pakistan. Shabbir Ahmed was a top student who
taught at the school after graduation, then moved to Islamabad to become imam of
a mosque there.

Shaaf testified that the Jamia Farooqia taught an ultra-conservative,
''Deobandi'' variety of Islam that was favored by the Taliban.

Contact Pete Carey at (408) 920-5419 or pcarey@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 26, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Nunez visits Mexico to talk immigration;
SPEAKER SAYS HE TRIED TO EASE ANGER AT GOVERNOR'S REMARKS

BYLINE: By John Rice; Associated Press

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


California Assembly Speaker Fabian Nunez on Thursday urged Mexican President
Vicente Fox to press for immigration reform in the United States and said he
tried to ease anger at Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's remarks about migrants.

But Nunez also found himself explaining his own call for a state of emergency
along the border after similar declarations by other states had irritated
Mexican leaders.

Not by coincidence, Nunez's meeting with Fox wasn't mentioned on the president's
daily schedule of public events.

''The perception here in Mexico is that this is a call to close the border and
place responsibility and blame only on Mexico,'' Nunez acknowledged during a
news conference after his meeting with Fox.

Emergency decrees

The Los Angeles Democrat said the proposed emergency decree ''is between
California and the Bush administration'' and was meant to get the federal
government to help ''make sure California is getting its fair share of funds''
for imprisoning undocumented immigrants and other costs.

The governors of Arizona and New Mexico recently made such declarations.
Schwarzenegger has said there is no need for such action in California and that,
in any case, state law does not grant him the authority to do so. Thursday, four
Republican lawmakers said they would introduce legislation to amend state law,
giving the governor the authority to declare emergencies along the border.

Nunez, a rival of the Republican governor, prodded Schwarzenegger to promote the
federal Kennedy-McCain bill that would legalize many current undocumented
immigrants in the United States.

He also encouraged Schwarzenegger to visit Mexico, the state's largest
foreign-trade partner.

''People in Mexico feel that he's anti-Mexican because of some things that he
has said, like we should close down the border,'' Nunez said.

Schwarzenegger made such a comment in the spring to a gathering of newspaper
executives, but he quickly explained that he meant to say the border should be
properly secured.

''I don't think he's anti-Mexican,'' Nunez said. ''I disagree with a lot of his
policies . . . but on a personal level, I do think that he's a decent human
being so I do think that he needs to come to Mexico. He needs to mend those
ties.''

Nunez said he had urged Fox to work with the U.S. administration in achieving
reforms that would treat the 2 million undocumented Mexicans in California
''with the respect that they deserve through legal residency.''

California, he said, ''is where undocumented workers contribute most to the
economy but at the same time it is where they are most unrecognized.''

State Republican officials said Nunez's trip was orchestrated to woo Latino
voters ahead of the Nov. 8 election.

Invoking governor

Before leaving Sacramento, Nunez said he hoped to soothe what he said was
unhappiness in Mexico over Schwarzenegger's statement of support for volunteer
border patrols. The Minuteman Project says its purpose is to help U.S. border
agents arrest immigrants streaming across the Mexican border. Schwarzenegger
also has called upon the U.S. government to increase border security.

On Aug. 18, Nunez called on Schwarzenegger to declare an emergency in
California, saying it would help pressure the federal government to stop
drug-running and illegal immigration.

Schwarzenegger said there was no need for such a declaration. He also said state
law allows him to declare emergencies only in cases of war, natural disasters or
epidemics.

Associated Press Writer Beth Fouhy contributed to this report from Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 26, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Judge rejects federal policy;
LEGAL IMMIGRANTS GAIN KEY RIGHTS

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 556 words


Thousands of legal immigrants in the Bay Area and elsewhere in the United States
who have won court cases to secure green cards are entitled to temporary
government-issued documents that will allow them to work and travel, a San
Francisco federal court judge ruled Thursday.

Immigration advocates say that as many as 12,500 immigrants are in limbo because
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services refuse to issue temporary documents while these immigrants
are waiting for their green cards.

U.S. District Court Judge Marilyn Hall Patel ordered the government to submit a
plan for complying within 60 days. In her ruling Thursday, Patel said the
government and its agencies ''are in breach of their duty to provide timely
documentation of status.''

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the USCIS in San Francisco said the agency is
''reviewing the opinion and considering its response.''

Big backlog

''There are thousands and thousands of people in this class who can't work and
can't travel,'' said San Francisco attorney John C. Dwyer, ''because the DHS
refuses to give them documents that they're legally entitled to.''

Dwyer (a partner with the law firm of Cooley Godward in San Francisco), the
Texas Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights and the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Education Fund filed the class action lawsuit against the DHS and USCIS in
July last year.

The immigrants in the class-action lawsuit are those who went to court to
challenge their deportation and won. Although immigration courts have ruled that
they are entitled to legal permanent resident status, they lack documentation --
a stamp on their passports that indicates their green cards are pending. Green
cards can sometimes take years to secure, in part because of case backlogs and
bureaucratic delays.

This ''proof of lawful status'' will allow immigrants to obtain Social Security
cards, get driver's licenses, to work and travel abroad to visit families they
haven't seen for many years, said Javier N. Maldonado, executive director of the
Texas Lawyers' Committee.

National security

''On a legal level, this ruling recognizes that legal residents have legal
rights that the government can't simply disregard by waving the national
security flag,'' Maldonado said. ''The real problem is bureaucratic ineptitude
and inefficiency that results in people's rights being disregarded.''

The DHS argued in court that the delay in issuing temporary documents resulted
from lengthy security background checks on immigrants. Before Sept. 11, 2001,
immigrants with court-ordered legal status obtained temporary documents within
weeks from local immigration offices.

One of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, only identified as Flora R., of Merced,
was awarded a green card in 2003 after the courts determined that she and her
mother were victims of domestic violence. But without the stamp on her passport
proving she is a legal permanent resident, Flora lost a job promotion at a
retail store.

''The important thing to remember is all these immigrants have gone through the
process, and they're entitled to these documents,'' Dwyer said. ''These delays
are extremely long, and they're really suffering.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 17, 2005 Saturday

LEGAL FIGHT FOR REFUGE

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz; Mercury News

LENGTH: 3161 words


Each year, tens of thousands of people, many fearing torture or death in their
homelands, turn to a little-known federal agency as their last hope to win
permission to remain in the United States.

But since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, this agency, the Board of Immigration
Appeals, has been dispensing rapid-fire immigration justice, rejecting the pleas
of refugees and other immigrants more than ever.

Post-Sept. 11 reforms to this top branch of the immigration system, made in the
name of efficiency and national security, have had profound consequences that
have little to do with fighting terrorism. Judges, lawmakers, immigration rights
lawyers and even members of the immigration system say the appeals board is no
longer able to serve as a trustworthy safety net for the very immigrants it was
designed to protect.

As a result, unprecedented numbers of board decisions are being appealed to the
federal courts, where judges are regularly kicking cases back to the immigration
system to start all over. The board's cold shoulder has made immigrants put
their lives on hold for years as they fall in love, take jobs and have children,
all the while unsure whether they'll be allowed to stay or be forced to leave.

The fallout has hit hardest in California and the West. Immigration appeals in
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers California and eight other
states, jumped from 900 five years ago to more than 5,000 last year. A Mercury
News review of hundreds of 9th Circuit rulings since January 2003 shows that
nearly two-thirds of the most important immigration cases in the West are so
flawed when they emerge from the appeals board that they are shipped back for
more thorough consideration.

The Bay Area's Reina Garcia-Martinez is an example. She fled to America after
being tortured and gang-raped in Guatemala. An immigration judge had denied her
plea for political asylum, and she was taking her case to the board, often
called the supreme court of the immigration system.

It was October 2002. Her timing couldn't have been worse. It was just a few
weeks after former Attorney General John Ashcroft radically changed how the
board would handle tens of thousands of cases like hers every year.

In a government office in Falls Church, Va., board official Kevin Ohlson
scribbled his signature on a boilerplate three-paragraph document rejecting her
appeal. There was no discussion of the woman's plight, no explanation for why
she should be returned to her homeland. This was the board's new way of
conducting much of its business -- as swift and jarring as a door slamming shut.

But last year, an outraged 9th Circuit panel, in more than 20 pages of harrowing
detail, declared that the East Bay woman was an exceptionally worthy candidate
for asylum and deserved more than a silent rejection.

''Reina Garcia-Martinez,'' the 9th Circuit judges said in the first line of
their decision, ''has survived atrocities that most of us experience only in our
worst nightmares.''

Garcia-Martinez's case exemplifies what critics say has become rubber-stamp
justice in the immigration system. Since the appeals board downsized its chief
mechanism for catching its own mistakes, immigrant rights advocates say they've
had no choice but to go above the board to the next level -- the federal courts
of appeal.

With two American-born children and a certainty that she would face retribution
if she returned to Guatemala, Garcia-Martinez's decadelong fight to stay in this
country depended on all corners of the immigration courts to pay close
attention.

''I thought that with what I lived and suffered, I could stay here without
problems if I asked for asylum,'' Garcia-Martinez said. ''But I never imagined
it would be so complicated.''

Defending record


 Board officials rebut claims

The board defends its record and says it still adequately screens the work of
more than 200 immigration judges across the nation. And the board insists that
the majority of its decisions hold up overall when reviewed by federal appeals
courts.

''We do not believe that procedural reforms have meaningfully changed the role
of the BIA in any way,'' officials with the Executive Office for Immigration
Review, which includes the appeals board, said in written responses to the
Mercury News.

But the board's performance is not making the grade in the court that reviews
its decisions far more than any other -- the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit.
From Jan. 1, 2003, when the reforms fully took hold, through earlier this month,
the 9th Circuit rejected the findings of the board in 131 of 208 ''published''
asylum and deportation decisions, which the court identifies as cases of the
greatest legal and public policy importance, the Mercury News found. Many of
those cases involved refugees who fled horrific strife.

In addition, even in what should be routine asylum and deportation appeals, the
court is regularly rejecting board decisions. From last September to July 1, the
court overturned 25 percent of the more than 700 ''unpublished,'' or relatively
routine, immigration appeals it ruled upon, a figure that means hundreds of
cases are heading back for another round in the immigration courts each year.

''Clearly,'' said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and member of the House
subcommittee on immigration and border security, ''bad mistakes are being
made.''

Critics of the 9th Circuit, including some of its own conservative members, say
the court is simply exerting its liberal muscle to interfere with the executive
branch. Conservatives have for years targeted the 9th Circuit, a court dominated
by Democratic appointees, for being too liberal on issues ranging from
immigration to the death penalty.

But many judges, lawmakers, immigration rights lawyers and even members of the
immigration system say the 9th Circuit's record is proof that the appeals board
is no longer able to serve as a reliable safety net for the system, or for
immigrants like Garcia-Martinez.

''It's very clear he didn't want it to be a court,'' said Lory Rosenberg, who
had been one of the board's most liberal members and left when the Ashcroft
reforms went into effect. ''He wanted it to be a meatpacking plant.''

New system


 Appeals process gets a makeover

Under the innocuous title of ''Procedural Reforms to Improve Case Management,''
the Justice Department in February 2002 unveiled its plan to reduce a staggering
55,000-case backlog at the appeals board. The Justice Department oversees the
immigration courts.

Pushed by Ashcroft, who said he wanted swift justice to make sure terrorists and
others wouldn't slip through the system's cracks, the plan for the most part did
away with the board's custom of assigning three-member panels to decide many of
its cases, and including explanations with most of their decisions. Instead,
single board members would be deciding the vast majority of cases, many through
brief orders without explanations, like the one received by Garcia-Martinez.

At the same time, Ashcroft reduced the board's size from 23 members to 11,
sweeping away appeals board judges with a track record of overturning the work
of immigration judges. The board, set up as a watchdog in the 1940s, was now
deciding more cases than ever with fewer members.

The board has dramatically reduced its backlog, and says it has done so without
jeopardizing the rights of immigrants.

But critics say the overhaul has undermined the ability of the board to catch
mistakes by overworked immigration judges, and shifted that role to the nation's
federal judges, who are even further removed from the accounts immigrants
provide to bolster their efforts to remain in the United States.

''In each case, you have to decide every issue because the BIA hasn't been
through it,'' said 9th Circuit Chief Judge Mary Schroeder, who has met with top
immigration officials to discuss the problem. ''The odds of having a mistake
there are much higher.''

By necessity, dealing with immigration cases is a volume business. The nation's
215 immigration judges handled nearly 300,000 matters last year. There were more
than 60,000 asylum claims. Coming from 53 courts around the country, rulings
from immigration judges funnel into the Virginia offices of the 11-member
appeals board. By last year, the board was deciding more than 48,000 cases,
45,000 of those by single board members.

Board members issued roughly 16,000 summary orders last year like the one used
in Garcia-Martinez's case, in appeals they consider easy enough to dispose of
quickly.

Some of those appeals were as straightforward as whether to deport a non-citizen
for committing a felony. But others raise complex international human rights
issues in tense bids for refuge. A recent case argued in the 9th Circuit
centered on whether the threat of a girl's genital mutilation in Somalia is
grounds for her family's asylum.

Appeals board records show that it affirmed immigration judges more than 90
percent of the time the past two years, compared with 75 percent of the time in
the pre-streamlining era, according to an American Bar Association study. Many
experts see the board's increasing tendency to rule for the government as proof
that high-speed justice has stacked the deck against immigrants.

''It's a recipe for injustice,'' said Stephen Legomsky, a St. Louis law
professor and national expert on the board.

Current immigration judges generally won't say much about the controversy. But
San Francisco's Dana Marks, president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges, makes it clear they would prefer more resources and a strong appeals
board reviewing their work, given the pressure on them to move cases quickly.

Marks said she knows her decisions no longer get the ''polishing'' they used to
get from the board. She particularly worries about asylum cases, where ''if we
make a mistake, we could be sending somebody home to die.''

''As an immigration judge for 18 years, you would get it done, you get it done
quickly and you didn't worry -- the board would clean it up,'' said Marks, who
stressed the association has not taken a formal position on streamlining.

Cases overturned


 Court points out more problems

As the 9th Circuit decides more cases, the rate of overturning the appeals board
appears to be accelerating. From 1999 to 2001, before streamlining, the 9th
Circuit overturned the board in about 58 percent of its published cases,
compared with 63 percent the past three years. In 2001, the last full year
before streamlining, the court overturned the board in just a third of its 30
published rulings. Thus far this year, the court has overturned the board in
nearly 65 percent of its published immigration rulings.

Even in the more routine immigration cases, the 9th Circuit is overturning far
more decisions than in other kinds of cases it rules on, according to the U.S.
Administrative Office of the Courts. The Mercury News found the 9th Circuit
overturned 25 percent of its unpublished immigration appeals from Sept. 1, 2004,
through July 1, while the Administrative Office of the Courts figures show in
2004 the court reversed 6.8 percent of all the 12,151 cases it decided, from
criminal convictions to business disputes.

In addition, a review of the rulings shows the 9th Circuit is finding problems
in appeals board decisions of all stripes, whether they were handled by single
judges or the now more rare three-member board panels.

''We used to review thoughtful decisions from the BIA,'' said 9th Circuit Judge
Sidney Thomas, on the court since 1996. ''Now, because of streamlining, we're
not getting the BIA's point of view.''

Federal judges make their displeasure known, as in an April 2003 ruling that
granted relief to Jose Murillo-Salmeron, a Mexican national who immigrated to
the United States in 1977 at age 15. Murillo married a U.S. citizen, had three
children and raised two stepchildren. His parents and siblings moved to the
United States and most became citizens. He had no relatives left in Mexico.

Yet when Murillo applied for an adjustment of his legal status because of his
marriage to a citizen, immigration authorities moved to deport him because of
suspicions he'd originally entered the country illegally. In a two-paragraph
decision by three members, the board affirmed the order to deport Murillo, based
on what was later determined to have been evidence that never existed.

The 9th Circuit sided with Murillo, and made it clear it didn't think the
appeals board had really examined his case.

''While we recognize that the BIA is swimming in a sea of cases, barely able to
keep itself afloat, there remains no excuse for the apparent failure to read the
decision one is reviewing and to review the decision that was made,'' the court
said.

Critics are particularly concerned about asylum cases, where the standard for
overturning the appeals board is extremely high, and the stakes for refugees are
even higher. In order to overturn the board, a federal court must find the
evidence ''compels'' a reversal, and an asylum-seeker must establish strong
evidence of a ''well-founded'' fear of persecution based on a recognized ground,
such as politics or religion.

The appeals board was considered the check against uneven rulings from
immigration judges who have been found to have wildly divergent approaches to
asylum claims throughout the country. Experts say it is doubly important for the
board to explain its reasoning when dealing with the life-or-death concerns of
refugees.

''By and large, asylum cases would tend to merit more thorough review,'' said
David Martin, general counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1995 to 1998.

Case in point


 Court sides with refugees

Over the past few years, the 9th Circuit has repeatedly sided with refugees
whose factual claims were not in dispute. A typical case involved Afroza and
Khandker Hasan, refugees from Bangladesh now living in Los Angeles.

Afroza Hasan had been a journalist who was attacked and threatened after
exposing wrongdoing by a major Bangladeshi political leader. Her husband,
Khandker, and her father also were attacked and threatened. They fled to the
United States in 1999.

Without an explanation, the appeals board had affirmed an immigration judge's
decision to deny the couple asylum.

Noting that the Hasans' account was undisputed, the 9th Circuit said their
petition ''compels the conclusion that the persecution the Hasans experienced
was on account of Afroza's political opinion.''

The Hasans, who have two young children, are now in limbo, hoping the
immigration courts give them asylum the second time around. They are now waiting
to hear again from the appeals board.

''If I go back,'' Afroza Hasan said recently, ''they will kill my husband and my
children.''

While there are no firm statistics, the Mercury News found the 9th Circuit
appears to disagree with the board more than other federal appeals courts. Some
of the 9th Circuit judges say their colleagues are too often second-guessing
immigration judges.

''There are cases where I don't think everything is golden,'' said Judge Alex
Kozinski, one of the 9th Circuit's more conservative members. ''But I think
sometimes we are a little hard on them.''

The board argues that attacks on the reforms are misguided, noting that the
percentage of streamlined decisions being appealed is dropping. In its response
to the Mercury News, board officials said the overall increase in appeals is
driven in large part by non-citizens who want to delay their deportation as long
as possible.

Yet the 9th Circuit is far from alone in blasting the board. Other appellate
judges around the country have had harsh words. A federal appeals court in
Philadelphia in August concluded that the government should pay for board
mistakes by paying lawyer fees for immigrants in cases kicked back to the
immigration courts. And ripping the board in several asylum cases last year,
Judge Richard Posner, a widely-respected conservative on the 7th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Chicago, said that ''elementary principles of administrative
law, the rules of logic and common sense seem to have eluded the board in this
as in other cases.''

Victory secured


 Long legal road to stay in U.S.

On a recent June afternoon in her bungalow in a working-class Richmond
neighborhood, Reina Garcia-Martinez's 3-year-old son was racing back and forth
across the living room in a Batman cape.

Garcia-Martinez, 31, said she cannot discuss what happened to her back in the
war-torn rural village in Guatemala because ''it hurts my soul.'' But in the
ruling that gave her new hope, the 9th Circuit described how everyone in her
village feared knocks on the door, first from rebel guerrillas and later from
the Guatemalan military when they suspected her village was rebel turf.

As a young child, guerrillas took Garcia-Martinez's brother and he was never
seen again. When she was 16, she woke up one morning to find eight dead bodies
outside her neighbor's house.

Three years later, at 19, soldiers invaded her house. They tied up her father.
Her mother was taken to the kitchen and ordered to cook. After hitting
Garcia-Martinez with a gun, three soldiers took turns raping her. At the time,
it was common for soldiers to rape women, and human rights reports found that
the government did little to discourage the conduct.

With the help of an aunt, Garcia-Martinez fled, fearing the military would
target her, and entered the United States through Mexico.

The immigration judge who reviewed her case found she testified ''sincerely and
genuinely,'' but concluded that the rape was ''simply a criminal act that was
committed against her by a soldier'' and not a form of persecution. He rejected
her plea for asylum. The appeals board affirmed that order without elaborating.

But citing human rights abuses during Guatemala's long civil war, the 9th
Circuit said the immigration courts had ''treated Garcia's personal experiences
as if they had occurred in a vacuum.'' The Garcia-Martinez decision led the
court to establish new legal protections for victims of wartime sexual violence.

The 9th Circuit's ruling in Garcia-Martinez's case came more than a year ago. In
July, Oakland attorney Jayne Fleming received an order from the board granting
her client asylum after all.

''I'm secure that I can stay here with my kids and I won't have any problems,''
said Garcia-Martinez, who ran from ''room to room'' in her house when she got
news of her asylum. ''I can learn to drive, without the fear that the police
will stop me. I can walk free in all directions without worrying they will
deport me.

''It's what I always wanted.''

The Mercury News does not name the victims of rapes except in special instances
and only with the victim's permission. Contact Howard Mintz at
hmintz@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 17, 2005 Saturday

Judges deciding cases have divergent views;
MEMBERS SITTING ON 9TH CIRCUIT ILLUSTRATE DIVIDE OVER IDEOLOGY

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz; Mercury News

LENGTH: 949 words


Despite taking a generally dim view of the Board of Immigration Appeals in
recent years, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals doesn't speak in one voice.

Judge Stephen Reinhardt, the 9th Circuit's liberal standard-bearer, has seldom
agreed with the appeals board on an important immigration appeal. Since the
beginning of 2003, when the 9th Circuit began ruling on cases from the
''streamlined'' board, Reinhardt voted to overturn the board's decision 93
percent of the time -- 27 of the 29 published immigration cases in which he
participated.

On the opposite end of the spectrum, Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain, a Reagan
appointee and one of the 9th Circuit's most conservative members, has voted in
10 of 12 cases to uphold the board.

Published cases are those the federal appeals court considers of particular
legal or public policy importance. The Mercury News examined more than 200 such
cases to evaluate how the 9th Circuit is ruling since the Bush administration
halved the appeals board and instructed it to decide many of its cases without
an explanation.

The ideological divide between judges Reinhardt and O'Scannlain highlights how
differently federal judges view their authority to overturn the decisions of the
immigration system.

Democratic appointees vote to reject the board's findings in nearly 75 percent
of their cases. But the board may not find much solace in pinning the 9th
Circuit's track record on a bunch of liberals: As a whole, even the 9th
Circuit's Republican appointees vote 50 percent of the time to reject the
board's findings. While they are still relatively new to the bench, it doesn't
appear that President George W. Bush's appointees are pushing the court far to
the right on immigration: Those judges sided with an immigrant's bid to fight
deportation in 58 percent of their rulings.

''It does indicate that judges from a wide spectrum of ideological and political
perspectives are all troubled in varying degrees,'' said Arthur Hellman, a
University of Pittsburgh law professor and 9th Circuit expert.

There are 24 full-time judges on the 9th Circuit, as well as more than a dozen
other senior judges who regularly rule in immigration cases. The makeup of the
three-judge panels that decide the vast majority of appeals can influence
immigration cases, even in routine, ''unpublished'' rulings that judges now
issue on a rapid-fire basis.

On April 11, a 9th Circuit panel of Judges Alex Kozinski and Richard Clifton,
two Republican appointees, and Michael Daly Hawkins, a Clinton appointee, issued
39 unpublished orders in asylum and deportation appeals, rejecting all but
three. By contrast, over a three-day period in mid-May, a panel of Democratic
appointees, Harry Pregerson, Sidney Thomas and William Canby, issued 74
unpublished decisions, granting relief to the immigrant in 34, or almost 46
percent, of these routine appeals, well above the norm.

The judges themselves say the court's eclectic voting is not surprising.
Reinhardt said he would expect a majority of published rulings to be reversed
because those are the toughest cases. He added that 9th Circuit judges differ on
an issue like immigration, just as Supreme Court justices such as John Paul
Stevens and Clarence Thomas go separate ways on social questions.

Kozinski, a conservative who has voted slightly more often for the board in
immigration appeals, said the court as a whole ''tends to nitpick immigration
judges.''

''The cases we tend to see are the problem cases and some of my colleagues get
impatient,'' Kozinski said. ''I'm not as pessimistic as some of my colleagues
about what is going on.''

Chief Judge Mary Schroeder, a Carter appointee who is concerned about the
appeals board direction, cautioned against applying traditional ideological
labels in immigration cases.

''Whether you're talking about workers' comp or immigration or Social Security,
judges really have different attitudes, and it's not necessarily related to
party affiliation or liberal or conservative or race and demographics,'' she
said.

While there are no comparable statistics, the 9th Circuit does appear to be
overturning the streamlined board with more frequency than other federal appeals
courts.

For example, the New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which is the
other court hardest hit by an increase in immigration cases, settles the vast
majority of those cases without ruling on them, under a program that is unique
to that district. In those cases that are decided by the 2nd Circuit, however, a
Mercury News review shows that the board is overturned in a lower percentage of
appeals. Since 2002, a review of the court's Web site shows it overturned the
board in 44 percent of its 45 published immigration decisions, well below the
9th Circuit rate.

At the same time, a recent New York City Bar Association report concluded that
the special program used for settling cases may be resulting in favorable
results for non-citizens without the need for court intervention.

The appeals board acknowledged the 9th Circuit has a history of reversing its
decisions. ''We recognize that there are differences between and among the
various circuit courts,'' the board said in written responses to the Mercury
News.

Legal experts say the 9th Circuit's decisions simply reflect a court willing to
let the board know it is dissatisfied with the current system of review.

''Most of the judges on the 9th have a jaundiced view of how well the BIA folks
are doing, and not without reason,'' said Los Angeles attorney Shirley
Hufstedler, a former 9th Circuit judge and chairwoman of a 1998 national
commission that recommended reforming the immigration courts.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2005 Sunday

Fight for refuge: Part II;
A NEW IMMIGRATION APPEALS PROCESS HAS LED TO LENGTHY CASES

LENGTH: 1410 words


By Howard Mintz

Mercury News

It is a sweltering July day in Simi Valley, and Ernesto de Leon's three young
children are in the back yard, spraying one another with a water hose. His wife,
Rosa, prepares hot dogs in the kitchen.

Fourteen years after fleeing Guatemala in fear for his life, de Leon is living
an immigrant's American dream. A good job at a Toyota dealership, enough money
to buy a house, kids attending an elementary school down the street, occasional
tickets to a Dodgers game.

But de Leon feels this idyllic life is resting on quicksand. For nearly a
decade, he's been trapped in an immigration system that wants to deport him to
Guatemala, his case a glaring example of what critics say is a woefully
inadequate form of reviewing the claims of refugees and others trying to stay in
the United States.

It is the type of case that has made members of Congress, judges and various
legal groups push for changes in the way the top branch of the immigration
system -- the Board of Immigration Appeals -- is doing its job. The proposals
range from increasing the size of the recently shrunken board to barring the
perfunctory orders that have become the agency's trademark in many asylum and
deportation cases.

But with political pressure focused on making immigration tougher, not easier,
these calls for reform face an uphill battle, even as cases like de Leon's
become more common.

''I don't think the Republican majority has any interest in this, to be
honest,'' said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. ''But when you look at these
decisions impartially, they don't pass the smell test.''

De Leon lost his asylum case before the appeals board, often the last hope for
immigrants fighting deportation. As with thousands of cases each year, the board
rejected de Leon's appeal without explanation, merely stamping an order denying
asylum.

But the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals this spring found
that the appeals board was so cavalier in reviewing de Leon's asylum plea that
it signed off on ''a literally incomprehensible opinion'' by the immigration
judge who first heard his case. De Leon is now back to square one.

A Mercury News review has found that the 9th Circuit has sent hundreds of cases
like de Leon's back to the immigration courts because of errors and oversights
by the appeals board.

The board strongly defends the thoroughness of its work and the success of the
Bush administration's decision three years ago to streamline the agency.
Officials cut the size of the board from 23 members to 11 and ordered fast-track
handling for many cases, in an effort to reduce the board's massive backlog and
tighten immigration after the 2001 terrorist attacks.

But dozens of people familiar with the system, as well as studies of the appeals
board, recommend alternatives.

In June, Texas Democrat Sheila Jackson Lee, a member of the House subcommittee
on immigration and border security, singled out the board's treatment of
immigrants on the House floor. Jackson Lee wants the board to be expanded and to
abandon its reliance on one-page orders issued by individual board members who
don't explain their decisions. The board used to decide most cases with
three-member panels.

''I prefer the checks and balances of having three members review cases,''
Jackson Lee said in an interview. ''There is no footprint from the board when a
decision goes out without an opinion to explain it.''

U.S. Rep. Howard Berman, D-Van Nuys, and Rep. Bill Delahunt, D-Massachusetts,
this spring introduced legislation to strengthen the appeals board and make
immigration courts an independent branch outside the Justice Department. Last
year, the National Association of Immigration Judges took the unprecedented step
of endorsing an independent immigration court system, just as criticism of the
appeals board was rising.

Federal judges, meanwhile, have met repeatedly this year with immigration court
leaders to address the flood of cases being appealed from the board. The No. 1
target is the perfunctory rulings.

''I'd think it would be in the BIA's best interest, and the system's best
interest, to have something other than just stamping these orders ''affirmed,''
said 9th Circuit Judge Michael Daly Hawkins.

In written responses to questions from the Mercury News, appeals board officials
defend the 2002 changes, saying the board has effectively eliminated much of its
backlog and is resolving more appeals than ever with fewer members.

By reducing delays, board officials say they've eliminated what they see as the
biggest problem: immigrants using frivolous appeals to postpone deportation, a
priority given that legal and illegal immigration are on the rise. The appeals
board sees no reason to increase its size.

The board's critics say the agency is ignoring pleas for change. In 2003, the
American Bar Association issued a report on the impact of streamlining, warning
that the result would be repeated reversals in the federal courts, which it
called ''wasteful and slow.''

Steve Carlson, a Minneapolis lawyer whose law firm assembled the findings, has
been frustrated by the response.

''It's disappointing that here we are, two years later, and the same thing is
still going on,'' Carlson said.

Other attempts to enact significant immigration court reforms also have stalled.
Seven years ago, a bipartisan commission set up by Congress called for a
stronger, independent immigration court system and a new Agency for Immigration
Review to replace the appeals board.

''Sank like a stone,'' said Shirley Hufstedler, a former 9th Circuit judge and
the commission's chairwoman. ''Congress didn't do one cotton pickin' thing.

''You are going to have to raise the qualifications and independence of the
immigration courts,'' she added. ''I don't know whether it will take dynamite or
some wake-up call.''

Many immigration experts favor a more limited form of streamlining tried during
the Clinton administration. In 1999, the board began issuing brief orders, but
confined the practice to the most straightforward appeals. Experts say the board
sacrificed meaningful review of complex asylum and deportation cases by allowing
all cases to be streamlined under the 2002 rules.

The board has decided a third to half of its nearly 50,000 cases in recent years
through summary orders, compared with about 10 percent under the old
streamlining.

David Martin, general counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1995 to 1998, recommends returning to the 1999 streamlining. ''It would be
good if the Justice Department would take another look at that and whether they
are giving us the best overall system for resolving removal issues.''

Ernesto de Leon certainly hopes the immigration courts take a more in-depth look
at his case the second time around. De Leon was one of the first refugees whose
cases were reviewed under the 2002 streamlining regulations -- his asylum was
rejected by a board member in a summary order five days after the new rules went
into effect.

''I think the immigration courts should review the cases of people like me, and
they shouldn't treat me like they did,'' de Leon says now.

De Leon has been in the United States since 1991, when he left Guatemala after
being threatened and beaten by soldiers for his political agitation against
human rights abuses and other government activity. He applied for asylum in
1997.

A now-retired immigration judge rejected de Leon's asylum petition, but the 9th
Circuit, in its ruling in March, said it could not tell why. In one passage, the
court said the judge's decision ''defies parsing under ordinary rules of English
grammar.'' The appeals board, which is responsible for reviewing such decisions,
affirmed it without comment.

The case is now headed back to the board, and de Leon's life remains on hold.

De Leon, 41, has three American children, from 5 to 9 years old. His wife, a
Salvadoran refugee, long ago was granted permission to stay in the United
States. She has relatives near Los Angeles who arrived with her more than a
decade ago.

If de Leon is deported, he will either have to take his family to Guatemala or
leave them behind.

''When I asked my wife one night what would happen if I had to leave, she
started to cry,'' de Leon said as he rested in his living room, a nearby mantle
covered with pictures of family. ''It's very hard.''

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 18, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

FIGHT FOR REFUGE

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3161 words


Each year, tens of thousands of people, many fearing torture or death in their
homelands, turn to a little-known federal agency as their last hope to win
permission to remain in the United States.

But since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, this agency, the Board of Immigration
Appeals, has been dispensing rapid-fire immigration justice, rejecting the pleas
of refugees and other immigrants more than ever.

Post-Sept. 11 reforms to this top branch of the immigration system, made in the
name of efficiency and national security, have had profound consequences that
have little to do with fighting terrorism. Judges, lawmakers, immigration rights
lawyers and even members of the immigration system say the appeals board is no
longer able to serve as a trustworthy safety net for the very immigrants it was
designed to protect.

As a result, unprecedented numbers of board decisions are being appealed to the
federal courts, where judges are regularly kicking cases back to the immigration
system to start all over. The board's cold shoulder has made immigrants put
their lives on hold for years as they fall in love, take jobs and have children,
all the while unsure whether they'll be allowed to stay or be forced to leave.

The fallout has hit hardest in California and the West. Immigration appeals in
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers California and eight other
states, jumped from 900 five years ago to more than 5,000 last year. A Mercury
News review of hundreds of 9th Circuit rulings since January 2003 shows that
nearly two-thirds of the most important immigration cases in the West are so
flawed when they emerge from the appeals board that they are shipped back for
more thorough consideration.

The Bay Area's Reina Garcia-Martinez is an example. She fled to America after
being tortured and gang-raped in Guatemala. An immigration judge had denied her
plea for political asylum, and she was taking her case to the board, often
called the supreme court of the immigration system.

It was October 2002. Her timing couldn't have been worse. It was just a few
weeks after former Attorney General John Ashcroft radically changed how the
board would handle tens of thousands of cases like hers every year.

In a government office in Falls Church, Va., board official Kevin Ohlson
scribbled his signature on a boilerplate three-paragraph document rejecting her
appeal. There was no discussion of the woman's plight, no explanation for why
she should be returned to her homeland. This was the board's new way of
conducting much of its business -- as swift and jarring as a door slamming shut.

But last year, an outraged 9th Circuit panel, in more than 20 pages of harrowing
detail, declared that the East Bay woman was an exceptionally worthy candidate
for asylum and deserved more than a silent rejection.

''Reina Garcia-Martinez,'' the 9th Circuit judges said in the first line of
their decision, ''has survived atrocities that most of us experience only in our
worst nightmares.''

Garcia-Martinez's case exemplifies what critics say has become rubber-stamp
justice in the immigration system. Since the appeals board downsized its chief
mechanism for catching its own mistakes, immigrant rights advocates say they've
had no choice but to go above the board to the next level -- the federal courts
of appeal.

With two American-born children and a certainty that she would face retribution
if she returned to Guatemala, Garcia-Martinez's decadelong fight to stay in this
country depended on all corners of the immigration courts to pay close
attention.

''I thought that with what I lived and suffered, I could stay here without
problems if I asked for asylum,'' Garcia-Martinez said. ''But I never imagined
it would be so complicated.''

Defending record


 Board officials rebut claims

The board defends its record and says it still adequately screens the work of
more than 200 immigration judges across the nation. And the board insists that
the majority of its decisions hold up overall when reviewed by federal appeals
courts.

''We do not believe that procedural reforms have meaningfully changed the role
of the BIA in any way,'' officials with the Executive Office for Immigration
Review, which includes the appeals board, said in written responses to the
Mercury News.

But the board's performance is not making the grade in the court that reviews
its decisions far more than any other -- the San Francisco-based 9th Circuit.
From Jan. 1, 2003, when the reforms fully took hold, through earlier this month,
the 9th Circuit rejected the findings of the board in 131 of 208 ''published''
asylum and deportation decisions, which the court identifies as cases of the
greatest legal and public policy importance, the Mercury News found. Many of
those cases involved refugees who fled horrific strife.

In addition, even in what should be routine asylum and deportation appeals, the
court is regularly rejecting board decisions. From last September to July 1, the
court overturned 25 percent of the more than 700 ''unpublished,'' or relatively
routine, immigration appeals it ruled upon, a figure that means hundreds of
cases are heading back for another round in the immigration courts each year.

''Clearly,'' said U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, and member of the House
subcommittee on immigration and border security, ''bad mistakes are being
made.''

Critics of the 9th Circuit, including some of its own conservative members, say
the court is simply exerting its liberal muscle to interfere with the executive
branch. Conservatives have for years targeted the 9th Circuit, a court dominated
by Democratic appointees, for being too liberal on issues ranging from
immigration to the death penalty.

But many judges, lawmakers, immigration rights lawyers and even members of the
immigration system say the 9th Circuit's record is proof that the appeals board
is no longer able to serve as a reliable safety net for the system, or for
immigrants like Garcia-Martinez.

''It's very clear he didn't want it to be a court,'' said Lory Rosenberg, who
had been one of the board's most liberal members and left when the Ashcroft
reforms went into effect. ''He wanted it to be a meatpacking plant.''

New system


 Appeals process gets a makeover

Under the innocuous title of ''Procedural Reforms to Improve Case Management,''
the Justice Department in February 2002 unveiled its plan to reduce a staggering
55,000-case backlog at the appeals board. The Justice Department oversees the
immigration courts.

Pushed by Ashcroft, who said he wanted swift justice to make sure terrorists and
others wouldn't slip through the system's cracks, the plan for the most part did
away with the board's custom of assigning three-member panels to decide many of
its cases, and including explanations with most of their decisions. Instead,
single board members would be deciding the vast majority of cases, many through
brief orders without explanations, like the one received by Garcia-Martinez.

At the same time, Ashcroft reduced the board's size from 23 members to 11,
sweeping away appeals board judges with a track record of overturning the work
of immigration judges. The board, set up as a watchdog in the 1940s, was now
deciding more cases than ever with fewer members.

The board has dramatically reduced its backlog, and says it has done so without
jeopardizing the rights of immigrants.

But critics say the overhaul has undermined the ability of the board to catch
mistakes by overworked immigration judges, and shifted that role to the nation's
federal judges, who are even further removed from the accounts immigrants
provide to bolster their efforts to remain in the United States.

''In each case, you have to decide every issue because the BIA hasn't been
through it,'' said 9th Circuit Chief Judge Mary Schroeder, who has met with top
immigration officials to discuss the problem. ''The odds of having a mistake
there are much higher.''

By necessity, dealing with immigration cases is a volume business. The nation's
215 immigration judges handled nearly 300,000 matters last year. There were more
than 60,000 asylum claims. Coming from 53 courts around the country, rulings
from immigration judges funnel into the Virginia offices of the 11-member
appeals board. By last year, the board was deciding more than 48,000 cases,
45,000 of those by single board members.

Board members issued roughly 16,000 summary orders last year like the one used
in Garcia-Martinez's case, in appeals they consider easy enough to dispose of
quickly.

Some of those appeals were as straightforward as whether to deport a non-citizen
for committing a felony. But others raise complex international human rights
issues in tense bids for refuge. A recent case argued in the 9th Circuit
centered on whether the threat of a girl's genital mutilation in Somalia is
grounds for her family's asylum.

Appeals board records show that it affirmed immigration judges more than 90
percent of the time the past two years, compared with 75 percent of the time in
the pre-streamlining era, according to an American Bar Association study. Many
experts see the board's increasing tendency to rule for the government as proof
that high-speed justice has stacked the deck against immigrants.

''It's a recipe for injustice,'' said Stephen Legomsky, a St. Louis law
professor and national expert on the board.

Current immigration judges generally won't say much about the controversy. But
San Francisco's Dana Marks, president of the National Association of Immigration
Judges, makes it clear they would prefer more resources and a strong appeals
board reviewing their work, given the pressure on them to move cases quickly.

Marks said she knows her decisions no longer get the ''polishing'' they used to
get from the board. She particularly worries about asylum cases, where ''if we
make a mistake, we could be sending somebody home to die.''

''As an immigration judge for 18 years, you would get it done, you get it done
quickly and you didn't worry -- the board would clean it up,'' said Marks, who
stressed the association has not taken a formal position on streamlining.

Cases overturned


 Court points out more problems

As the 9th Circuit decides more cases, the rate of overturning the appeals board
appears to be accelerating. From 1999 to 2001, before streamlining, the 9th
Circuit overturned the board in about 58 percent of its published cases,
compared with 63 percent the past three years. In 2001, the last full year
before streamlining, the court overturned the board in just a third of its 30
published rulings. Thus far this year, the court has overturned the board in
nearly 65 percent of its published immigration rulings.

Even in the more routine immigration cases, the 9th Circuit is overturning far
more decisions than in other kinds of cases it rules on, according to the U.S.
Administrative Office of the Courts. The Mercury News found the 9th Circuit
overturned 25 percent of its unpublished immigration appeals from Sept. 1, 2004,
through July 1, while the Administrative Office of the Courts figures show in
2004 the court reversed 6.8 percent of all the 12,151 cases it decided, from
criminal convictions to business disputes.

In addition, a review of the rulings shows the 9th Circuit is finding problems
in appeals board decisions of all stripes, whether they were handled by single
judges or the now more rare three-member board panels.

''We used to review thoughtful decisions from the BIA,'' said 9th Circuit Judge
Sidney Thomas, on the court since 1996. ''Now, because of streamlining, we're
not getting the BIA's point of view.''

Federal judges make their displeasure known, as in an April 2003 ruling that
granted relief to Jose Murillo-Salmeron, a Mexican national who immigrated to
the United States in 1977 at age 15. Murillo married a U.S. citizen, had three
children and raised two stepchildren. His parents and siblings moved to the
United States and most became citizens. He had no relatives left in Mexico.

Yet when Murillo applied for an adjustment of his legal status because of his
marriage to a citizen, immigration authorities moved to deport him because of
suspicions he'd originally entered the country illegally. In a two-paragraph
decision by three members, the board affirmed the order to deport Murillo, based
on what was later determined to have been evidence that never existed.

The 9th Circuit sided with Murillo, and made it clear it didn't think the
appeals board had really examined his case.

''While we recognize that the BIA is swimming in a sea of cases, barely able to
keep itself afloat, there remains no excuse for the apparent failure to read the
decision one is reviewing and to review the decision that was made,'' the court
said.

Critics are particularly concerned about asylum cases, where the standard for
overturning the appeals board is extremely high, and the stakes for refugees are
even higher. In order to overturn the board, a federal court must find the
evidence ''compels'' a reversal, and an asylum-seeker must establish strong
evidence of a ''well-founded'' fear of persecution based on a recognized ground,
such as politics or religion.

The appeals board was considered the check against uneven rulings from
immigration judges who have been found to have wildly divergent approaches to
asylum claims throughout the country. Experts say it is doubly important for the
board to explain its reasoning when dealing with the life-or-death concerns of
refugees.

''By and large, asylum cases would tend to merit more thorough review,'' said
David Martin, general counsel for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from 1995 to 1998.

Case in point


 Court sides with refugees

Over the past few years, the 9th Circuit has repeatedly sided with refugees
whose factual claims were not in dispute. A typical case involved Afroza and
Khandker Hasan, refugees from Bangladesh now living in Los Angeles.

Afroza Hasan had been a journalist who was attacked and threatened after
exposing wrongdoing by a major Bangladeshi political leader. Her husband,
Khandker, and her father also were attacked and threatened. They fled to the
United States in 1999.

Without an explanation, the appeals board had affirmed an immigration judge's
decision to deny the couple asylum.

Noting that the Hasans' account was undisputed, the 9th Circuit said their
petition ''compels the conclusion that the persecution the Hasans experienced
was on account of Afroza's political opinion.''

The Hasans, who have two young children, are now in limbo, hoping the
immigration courts give them asylum the second time around. They are now waiting
to hear again from the appeals board.

''If I go back,'' Afroza Hasan said recently, ''they will kill my husband and my
children.''

While there are no firm statistics, the Mercury News found the 9th Circuit
appears to disagree with the board more than other federal appeals courts. Some
of the 9th Circuit judges say their colleagues are too often second-guessing
immigration judges.

''There are cases where I don't think everything is golden,'' said Judge Alex
Kozinski, one of the 9th Circuit's more conservative members. ''But I think
sometimes we are a little hard on them.''

The board argues that attacks on the reforms are misguided, noting that the
percentage of streamlined decisions being appealed is dropping. In its response
to the Mercury News, board officials said the overall increase in appeals is
driven in large part by non-citizens who want to delay their deportation as long
as possible.

Yet the 9th Circuit is far from alone in blasting the board. Other appellate
judges around the country have had harsh words. A federal appeals court in
Philadelphia in August concluded that the government should pay for board
mistakes by paying lawyer fees for immigrants in cases kicked back to the
immigration courts. And ripping the board in several asylum cases last year,
Judge Richard Posner, a widely-respected conservative on the 7th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Chicago, said that ''elementary principles of administrative
law, the rules of logic and common sense seem to have eluded the board in this
as in other cases.''

Victory secured


 Long legal road to stay in U.S.

On a recent June afternoon in her bungalow in a working-class Richmond
neighborhood, Reina Garcia-Martinez's 3-year-old son was racing back and forth
across the living room in a Batman cape.

Garcia-Martinez, 31, said she cannot discuss what happened to her back in the
war-torn rural village in Guatemala because ''it hurts my soul.'' But in the
ruling that gave her new hope, the 9th Circuit described how everyone in her
village feared knocks on the door, first from rebel guerrillas and later from
the Guatemalan military when they suspected her village was rebel turf.

As a young child, guerrillas took Garcia-Martinez's brother and he was never
seen again. When she was 16, she woke up one morning to find eight dead bodies
outside her neighbor's house.

Three years later, at 19, soldiers invaded her house. They tied up her father.
Her mother was taken to the kitchen and ordered to cook. After hitting
Garcia-Martinez with a gun, three soldiers took turns raping her. At the time,
it was common for soldiers to rape women, and human rights reports found that
the government did little to discourage the conduct.

With the help of an aunt, Garcia-Martinez fled, fearing the military would
target her, and entered the United States through Mexico.

The immigration judge who reviewed her case found she testified ''sincerely and
genuinely,'' but concluded that the rape was ''simply a criminal act that was
committed against her by a soldier'' and not a form of persecution. He rejected
her plea for asylum. The appeals board affirmed that order without elaborating.

But citing human rights abuses during Guatemala's long civil war, the 9th
Circuit said the immigration courts had ''treated Garcia's personal experiences
as if they had occurred in a vacuum.'' The Garcia-Martinez decision led the
court to establish new legal protections for victims of wartime sexual violence.

The 9th Circuit's ruling in Garcia-Martinez's case came more than a year ago. In
July, Oakland attorney Jayne Fleming received an order from the board granting
her client asylum after all.

''I'm secure that I can stay here with my kids and I won't have any problems,''
said Garcia-Martinez, who ran from ''room to room'' in her house when she got
news of her asylum. ''I can learn to drive, without the fear that the police
will stop me. I can walk free in all directions without worrying they will
deport me.

''It's what I always wanted.''

The Mercury News does not name the victims of rapes except in special instances
and only with the victim's permission. Contact Howard Mintz at
hmintz@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 18, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Judges deciding cases have divergent views;
MEMBERS SITTING ON 9TH CIRCUIT ILLUSTRATE DIVIDE OVER IDEOLOGY

BYLINE: By Howard Mintz; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. SS2

LENGTH: 949 words


Despite taking a generally dim view of the Board of Immigration Appeals in
recent years, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals doesn't speak in one voice.

Judge Stephen Reinhardt, the 9th Circuit's liberal standard-bearer, has seldom
agreed with the appeals board on an important immigration appeal. Since the
beginning of 2003, when the 9th Circuit began ruling on cases from the
''streamlined'' board, Reinhardt voted to overturn the board's decision 93
percent of the time -- 27 of the 29 published immigration cases in which he
participated.

On the opposite end of the spectrum, Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain, a Reagan
appointee and one of the 9th Circuit's most conservative members, has voted in
10 of 12 cases to uphold the board.

Published cases are those the federal appeals court considers of particular
legal or public policy importance. The Mercury News examined more than 200 such
cases to evaluate how the 9th Circuit is ruling since the Bush administration
halved the appeals board and instructed it to decide many of its cases without
an explanation.

The ideological divide between judges Reinhardt and O'Scannlain highlights how
differently federal judges view their authority to overturn the decisions of the
immigration system.

Democratic appointees vote to reject the board's findings in nearly 75 percent
of their cases. But the board may not find much solace in pinning the 9th
Circuit's track record on a bunch of liberals: As a whole, even the 9th
Circuit's Republican appointees vote 50 percent of the time to reject the
board's findings. While they are still relatively new to the bench, it doesn't
appear that President George W. Bush's appointees are pushing the court far to
the right on immigration: Those judges sided with an immigrant's bid to fight
deportation in 58 percent of their rulings.

''It does indicate that judges from a wide spectrum of ideological and political
perspectives are all troubled in varying degrees,'' said Arthur Hellman, a
University of Pittsburgh law professor and 9th Circuit expert.

There are 24 full-time judges on the 9th Circuit, as well as more than a dozen
other senior judges who regularly rule in immigration cases. The makeup of the
three-judge panels that decide the vast majority of appeals can influence
immigration cases, even in routine, ''unpublished'' rulings that judges now
issue on a rapid-fire basis.

On April 11, a 9th Circuit panel of Judges Alex Kozinski and Richard Clifton,
two Republican appointees, and Michael Daly Hawkins, a Clinton appointee, issued
39 unpublished orders in asylum and deportation appeals, rejecting all but
three. By contrast, over a three-day period in mid-May, a panel of Democratic
appointees, Harry Pregerson, Sidney Thomas and William Canby, issued 74
unpublished decisions, granting relief to the immigrant in 34, or almost 46
percent, of these routine appeals, well above the norm.

The judges themselves say the court's eclectic voting is not surprising.
Reinhardt said he would expect a majority of published rulings to be reversed
because those are the toughest cases. He added that 9th Circuit judges differ on
an issue like immigration, just as Supreme Court justices such as John Paul
Stevens and Clarence Thomas go separate ways on social questions.

Kozinski, a conservative who has voted slightly more often for the board in
immigration appeals, said the court as a whole ''tends to nitpick immigration
judges.''

''The cases we tend to see are the problem cases and some of my colleagues get
impatient,'' Kozinski said. ''I'm not as pessimistic as some of my colleagues
about what is going on.''

Chief Judge Mary Schroeder, a Carter appointee who is concerned about the
appeals board direction, cautioned against applying traditional ideological
labels in immigration cases.

''Whether you're talking about workers' comp or immigration or Social Security,
judges really have different attitudes, and it's not necessarily related to
party affiliation or liberal or conservative or race and demographics,'' she
said.

While there are no comparable statistics, the 9th Circuit does appear to be
overturning the streamlined board with more frequency than other federal appeals
courts.

For example, the New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which is the
other court hardest hit by an increase in immigration cases, settles the vast
majority of those cases without ruling on them, under a program that is unique
to that district. In those cases that are decided by the 2nd Circuit, however, a
Mercury News review shows that the board is overturned in a lower percentage of
appeals. Since 2002, a review of the court's Web site shows it overturned the
board in 44 percent of its 45 published immigration decisions, well below the
9th Circuit rate.

At the same time, a recent New York City Bar Association report concluded that
the special program used for settling cases may be resulting in favorable
results for non-citizens without the need for court intervention.

The appeals board acknowledged the 9th Circuit has a history of reversing its
decisions. ''We recognize that there are differences between and among the
various circuit courts,'' the board said in written responses to the Mercury
News.

Legal experts say the 9th Circuit's decisions simply reflect a court willing to
let the board know it is dissatisfied with the current system of review.

''Most of the judges on the 9th have a jaundiced view of how well the BIA folks
are doing, and not without reason,'' said Los Angeles attorney Shirley
Hufstedler, a former 9th Circuit judge and chairwoman of a 1998 national
commission that recommended reforming the immigration courts.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 20, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Asylum seekers deserve a chance at a fair hearing;
ANTI-TERROR RULES CLOSE DOORS TO THOSE SEEKING A HAVEN IN AMERICA

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 402 words


America has always been a refuge from despotism, a safe harbor for those
persecuted for their political beliefs, their race and their religion.

But that has changed since Sept. 11, as Mercury News reporter Howard Mintz
detailed in a revealing series this week. Large numbers of asylum-seekers have
become hostages of America's war on terror, their pleas for sanctuary dashed by
short-order justice.

Legitimate claims will continue to be denied -- and lives put at risk through
deportation -- until Congress reverses the Bush administration's actions of the
past few years and creates immigration courts independent of the Justice
Department.

Fearing that terrorists could manipulate the visa process to stay indefinitely
in the United States, the Bush administration took steps to purge delays in the
system, including those before the Board of Immigration Appeals. That court
hears asylum requests denied by the nation's 215 immigration judges.

But instead of expanding the appeals board, former Attorney General John
Ashcroft sliced it in half, to 11, and eliminated the three-judge panels which
ensured that most complex asylum cases would get a full and fair airing.

The result -- rote verdicts and automatic denials -- has led federal courts of
appeal, especially the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers California, to
assert their role as protector of last resort. Citing shoddy justice, the 9th
Circuit has overturned two-thirds of the most important appeals it heard since
2003.

That, in turn, led to another perversion of justice. In May, Republican leaders
and the Bush administration pushed through the Real ID Act, which narrows the
federal courts' role in asylum cases. It also requires asylum applicants to
document their fear of persecution and death if they are deported -- an often
impossible burden. Torture and rape rarely leave a paper trail.

It will take a change of heart -- or public pressure -- for the Bush
administration to reverse course. But Congress could intervene by mandating more
immigration appeals judges or by creating an independent immigration court
system. The current system has an inherent conflict: The attorney general runs
the courts and also prosecutes cases in front of the immigration judges he
appoints.

Immigration officials should be vigilant against those who would inflict terror
on us; they should also be accommodating to victims of it.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 19, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL AIMS AT HELPING KOREANS;
LAWMAKER TARGETS DEPORTATION EFFORTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 805 words


Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, today will introduce a bill that could give
permanent legal status to 275 Korean immigrants who are facing deportation after
learning years later that their green cards were authorized by an immigration
official in San Jose in exchange for bribes.

Last year, the federal government ruled that the green cards the immigrants
obtained from veteran immigration official Leland Dwayne Sustaire were
fraudulent.

In 1998, Sustaire confessed to a scheme of taking more than $500,000 from
immigration consultants who were helping the Koreans obtain permanent legal
residency, or green cards.

The fraud dated back to 1986. In 1999, Sustaire was convicted of the crimes in
federal court.

In stories published by the Mercury News last year, the Korean immigrants, who
came to the United States legally on various visas -- H-1B work visas, student
and visitor's visas -- denied they were accomplices in the scheme.

They said they paid the consultants to help them complete immigration papers
filed with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, now known as the
Citizenship and Immigration Services. They denied knowledge of the bribe scheme
the consultants had with Sustaire.

"It was our people who caused this. Why should these Korean immigrants be
punished for the corrupt actions of a government official?" said Honda by
telephone on Thursday. "I think it's an issue of right and wrong, and I don't
see how any fair-minded legislator can say this is not a fair action to take."

The bill will direct the Department of Homeland Security, the government agency
that oversees the CIS and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, to end
deportation proceedings against the Korean immigrants and drop its legal
challenge of the green cards authorized by Sustaire.

Last year, the ICE began filing deportation charges against some of the Korean
immigrants. Government lawyers argued the immigrants were willing accomplices
and that the green cards they received, although issued officially, were
fraudulent.

Alex Park, a San Jose lawyer who represents 95 of the Korean immigrants, praised
Honda for introducing the bill.

"I feel it's a good solution to resolve this problem so people can go on with
their lives," Park said on Thursday. "This is a hope to correct the wrong."

All of his clients will go to trial on the deportation charges in late spring or
early summer next year. Many have established and successful lives in the Bay
Area.

If approved, the bill will allow the Korean immigrants facing deportation to
seek a different avenue to get permanent legal status. For instance, some of
them are married to U.S. citizens who can then petition on their behalf,Park
said.

On Thursday, one of the immigrants facing deportation, 27-year-old Jung Kim,
said, "My life has been on hold for so long it's getting ridiculous."

Kim, an accountant and a Park client who lives in Passaic County, N.J., was 13
when he and his family immigrated to the United States. His entire family --
parents and a younger sister -- were facing deportation because of the
green-card-for-bribe scheme. About a year ago, a 10-year-old application filed
on their behalf by an aunt who is a U.S. citizen was approved. But the petition
only covered his parents and minor children. His sister was under 21 at the
time, but the petition did not include Kim because he's over 21.

In other words, his parents and sister have a solid hope of staying, with or
without Honda's bill. But Kim does not.

"I've been hoping for such a long time," he said. "I can only hope for a good
outcome." Although the bill specifically targets the Korean immigrants, Honda
said he would be open to allowing other immigrants who are unwitting victims of
government corruption to seek relief.

The congressman said he has lined up 10 Democratic co-sponsors of the bill.

A number of Bay Area non-profit and religious groups, state legislators and the
Santa Clara County Human Rights Commission have been lobbying the federal
government to end deportation proceedings against the Korean immigrants.

Sharon Rummery, a San Francisco spokeswoman for ICE and CIS, declined comment on
Thursday. Critics of the plan said the bill has little or no chance of passing
in a lame-duck session of Congress, as newly elected Republican legislators
prepare to take office.

"When you're paying somebody off, a reasonable person would know there's fraud
going on," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for FAIR, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, a national group that lobbies for stricter immigration
reforms.

"If you're willing to circumvent the law, you shouldn't be given a reward and a
free pass," he said, adding that passage of the bill is unlikely. "This is not
going to be a high priority in the new Congress," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 9, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE CHARGES FILED IN IMMIGRATION CASE;
SAN JOSE MAN ACCUSED OF BILKING VICTIMS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 320 words


Additional criminal charges were filed this week against a San Jose man accused
of defrauding undocumented immigrants out of $100,000 by falsely promising to
file immigration papers for them and obtain legal status in the United States.

Carlos Fernandez, 40, is being held in the Santa Clara County jail on a $1
million bond, awaiting a hearing Jan. 3 on 14 counts of grand theft. He faces up
to 14 years in state prison.

Fernandez jumped bail last year after being charged with the first six counts of
grand theft, and a bench warrant was issued for his arrest after he failed to
appear at a court hearing in April 2003.

Fernandez was arrested in San Jose the day after Thanksgiving, after one of his
alleged victims spotted him and reported him to police, Deputy District Attorney
Martha Donohoe said.

Posing as a state-bonded immigration consultant with connections to federal
immigration officials and state department of transportation authorities,
Fernandez befriended Latino immigrant parents at parties and soccer games,
authorities said.

He claimed to work in a law office in Sunnyvale. In exchange for his help in
filing immigration papers, help in buying cars and renting apartments, he
collected tens of thousands of dollars from victims, Donohoe said.

But Fernandez didn't deliver any of the services he promised, nor was he legally
allowed to file immigration papers on behalf of immigrants. Under California
law, so-called immigration consultants, quasi-immigration experts who help
immigrants complete immigration papers, must file a $50,000 bond with the state.
Fernandez was not bonded.

Investigators believe there are many more victims who fell prey to Fernandez.

"It can't hurt to talk to additional victims," Donohoe said.

If you believe you've been victimized by Fernandez, call Jorge Perez, an
investigator at the district attorney's office, at (408) 792-2745.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 9, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE MOVING TO TIGHTEN U.S. ASYLUM POLICY

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


Making it easier to deport immigrants seeking political asylum will get a vote
in the House this week, a few days after a federal commission said that many of
them already are being treated like criminals.

The House is scheduled to begin debate today on legislation that would make it
easier for judges to reject asylum claims and prevent immigrants from using
state driver's licenses as identification for boarding airplanes or entering
federal buildings.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 12, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PLAN WORRIES ADVOCATES

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 569 words


Los Angeles County jailers will soon identify illegal immigrants in their
custody with criminal convictions and hand them over to federal agents for
deportation. The plan, expected to be in place in the coming weeks, has alarmed
Bay Area immigration advocates worried about its effect on local policing.

Federal immigration officials said allowing Los Angeles County jail officials to
screen inmates for immigration status will protect communities and the country
from criminals who should be deported.

Although the scope of the agreement is limited, and officials offered assurances
this will not result in "sweeps and roundups on the streets," immigrants,
advocates and civil libertarians in the Bay Area fear that a similar plan might
take root locally. Among many concerns is that victims or witnesses of crimes in
immigrant communities will stop reporting crimes to police.

"It's really scary and has a lot of people worried," said Margaret Zaknoen,
advocacy coordinator for the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, an umbrella
organization of immigrant rights groups that's watching the Los Angeles case
closely.

"Things like this chip away at the separation between law enforcement" and the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Zaknoen said.

Michael Wishnie, a civil rights law professor at New York University, views the
Los Angeles agreement as the latest evidence of an integration of local policing
with immigration enforcement.

It follows a failed effort in Congress, a 2003 legislative proposal called the
Clear Act that would have deputized local police to enforce immigration laws.

The California Police Chiefs Association opposed Clear Act, but the National
Sheriff's Association supported it.

San Jose Police Chief Rob Davis opposed the Clear Act and said it would hurt the
work of local police. He declined comment on the Los Angeles plan, saying he has
not read it.

Under the agreement approved in January by the Los Angeles Board of Supervisors,
six jailers will interview convicted criminals about their immigration status.

Once immigration officials determine that an immigrant is deportable -- anyone
convicted of a crime, who entered the country illegally or whose legal visa has
expired -- the government will begin deportation proceedings.

"It's something that people seem to forget: These are people who have done
carjackings, rapes, murders," said Kevin Jeffrey, deputy special agent in charge
of the immigration office in Los Angeles. "We can all be victims of these
people."

Los Angeles County is the first jurisdiction in California, and the third in the
nation after counties in Florida and Alabama, to strike such an agreement with
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of Homeland Security.

Renee Saucedo, a coordinator for the day laborer programs at La Raza Centro
Legal, a non-profit legal advocacy group in San Francisco, said the federal
government is "using anti-terror hysteria" to seek similar agreements.

Martha Campos, an immigrant from Mexico who is now a U.S. citizen, said
delegating local police to enforce immigration laws takes away from the agency's
main mission of public safety.

"If I were a witness to something that happened in my neighborhood and my status
here is not clear, I'm not going to report anything to the police," Campos said,
"because the police will use my profile for deportation."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 28, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL REFUGEE PREVAILS IN SUIT;
$87,000 SETTLEMENT WITH GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 518 words


A political refugee from Kenya who was refused entry by immigration officials at
San Francisco International Airport, then forced to return to the country she
fled in fear for her life, will be paid $87,000 by the federal government for
alleged mistreatment she received in 2001.

Lawyers described the settlement as a first of its kind, a strong message to the
U.S. government that "there are consequences" when the government denies
refugees their legal rights to seek refuge. The terms of the settlement were
filed Wednesday in federal court in San Francisco.

Rosebell Munyua and her 2-year-old daughter arrived at San Francisco Airport in
March 2001 seeking political asylum. In Kenya, Munyua and her husband were
members of an opposition political party and at different times were beaten and
stripped by Kenyan police. Munyua said she has not heard from her husband since
he went into hiding in Tanzania.

In statements to lawyers, Munyua, 35, of Santa Rosa, said, "When we left Kenya,
I felt as if we had escaped a burning house and our lives had been saved."

But at the airport, immigration officers interrogated Munyua, ignored her pleas
to apply for asylum and threatened to put her in jail, according to court
documents. She was forced to board the next plane to Kenya, where she went into
hiding for more than six months. Later that year, she escaped Kenya a second
time, returned to the United States through Houston, and in 2002 was granted
asylum.

"When a woman and child arrive on your doorstep begging for help, you don't slam
the door shut, and tell them to go somewhere else," said Philip Hwang, a staff
attorney with the Lawyer's Committee for Civil Rights, which represented Munyua.

With Hwang's and the committee's help, Munyua sued the U.S. government and
immigration service in 2003.

The government sought to dismiss the case, but early this year, a federal judge
in San Francisco ruled that Munyua had a right to sue.

"There are some within our government who want to abandon our tradition of
protecting immigrants and refugees in need," Hwang said. "It's important that
the government understands there's a legal responsibility and, perhaps more
importantly, there's a moral responsibility."

Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office, which represented the
government, declined comment. He referred to language in the settlement document
that says that the agreement did not mean an admission of liability or fault.

Hwang and other lawyers who work on asylum cases said Munyua's case of abusive
treatment is not isolated. He cited a February 2005 report from the U.S.
Commission on International Religious Freedom, a presidential advisory
commission, which details cases where asylum seekers were routinely jailed by
immigration inspectors and sent back.

In a telephone interview Wednesday, Munyua, a certified nursing assistant, said
she was "happy to see that justice was done."

"For a long time I felt isolated and felt that nobody cared," she said. "I'm
just hoping this will make a big change so it doesn't happen to anybody else."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 3, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LICENSE BILL SET TO CLEAR CONGRESS;
PLAN WOULD REQUIRE DRIVERS TO PROVE IMMIGRATION STATUS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 763 words


A plan that would require all 50 states to verify the immigration status of
residents applying for or renewing driver's licenses appears headed for approval
in Congress.

The controversial proposal, negotiated in committee Monday, is part of a
spending bill that would provide money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The
plan, called Real ID, has been opposed by state agencies that issue driver's
licenses, immigrants and their advocates, and civil libertarians.

President Bush is among the plan's supporters. He described it as a national
security measure.

"Our hopes are dashed," said state Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, the
legislator who had pushed for a bill in the state that would allow undocumented
immigrants to get driver's licenses.

Under the proposed federal standards, motorists would have to prove their
immigration status to get a driver's license, and agencies that issue licenses
would have to verify documents such as Social Security cards and birth
certificates. If the bill becomes law, states have three years to meet the new
federal standards. Residents from states that do not comply will find their
driver's licenses refused as official identification.

Cedillo believes the new legislation will allow California to issue licenses to
one group of state residents who currently cannot have California licenses:
immigrants who have pending applications for green cards.

States still could give licenses to illegal immigrants, under the new
legislation, according to the Associated Press. But those licenses would be
coded differently, and cannot be used as identification to board a plane or
enter federal buildings, the AP said. Eleven states now grant driver's licenses
to non-citizens who do not have visas.

Many in California have opposed the coded license for undocumented immigrants
because they're afraid it will be an invitation to discrimination. But Cedillo
said there is existing technology that will make all driver's licenses look
virtually alike, distinguished only by special machines that read the coding.

"We have to come up with some hybrid that permits undocumented immigrants to
drive legally," Cedillo said.

In the Bay Area, opponents of Real ID expressed disappointment Monday. The
legislation still needs Senate and House approval.

"It's a huge disappointment," said Samina Faheem-Sundas, founder and executive
director of the American Muslim Voice, a Bay Area non-profit group that
denounced Real ID. "It seems to me that only things that are anti-immigrant are
coming out of Congress these days."

Richard Konda, executive director of Asian Law Alliance, a non-profit legal-aid
group in San Jose, echoed a criticism that's plagued Real ID.

"This very important issue is being connected to a spending bill," Konda said,
"when in fact it needs to be debated as part of our discussions onimmigration
reform."

Said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network, "I really feel democracy was not served in this case."

Attaching Real ID to a spending bill "stifled real discussion."

But supporters also say the measure will help control illegal immigration.
Caroline Espinosa of NumbersUSA, a group that lobbies for tighter borders and
tougher immigration laws, said, "This is really targeted toward national
security but a side effect would be discouraging illegal immigrants from coming
into the United States and making it more difficult for them to open a bank
account, buy a house, rent a car or buy a car."

The supplemental spending bill also contains a provision that establishes
tougher standards for people seeking asylum in the United States, and allows
judges reviewing asylum applications more lenient standards for rejecting
claims, according to the AP.

However, in the negotiated Senate version, asylum applicants will have a chance
to appeal.

Human rights advocates and civil libertarians in the Bay Area denounced these
provisions, worried that legitimate victims of political or religious
persecution will be turned away at U.S. ports of entry.

Finally, the war-spending bill will permit the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security to build a security fence on the U.S.-Mexico border near Tijuana,
bypassing strict environmental laws.

WHY IT MATTERS
If proposed regulations become law, people applying for their first driver's
license will have to provide the Department of Motor Vehicles with more
documentation such as a birth certificate, photo ID, proof of a Social Security
number and document with full name and home address.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press and the New York Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 4, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAR SPENDING BILL SWAMPED WITH IMMIGRATION ADDITIONS

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


What started out as border security measures in an Iraq-Afghanistan spending
bill became immigration legislation as lawmakers added new visas for foreigners
and did away with some asylum limits.

House and Senate negotiators reached agreement Tuesday on the final $82 billion
bill devoted primarily to paying for military operations and reconstruction in
Iraq and Afghanistan. The House could take it up later this week, but the Senate
won't vote until after it reconvenes May 9.

Originally, the House pushed for uniform requirements for driver's licenses,
toughening of asylum laws and authorizing the completion of a fence across the
California-Mexican border.

Those measures survived negotiations despite widespread opposition in the
Senate. As the bill made its way through the process, it grew to provide 10,500
visas for Australians and up to 50,000 visas that went unused from 2001 to '04
for nurses or their family members.

"The shortage our hospitals are facing is coming close to epidemic proportions,"
said Chris Paulitz, press officer for Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas.
"Americans are not getting the health care they deserve but are dependent on. We
limited this to 50,000 existing visas not being used to be used for nurses."

In addition, the bill, HR 1268, will exempt from the annual 66,000 ceiling on
H-2B visas returning seasonal workers, effective Oct. 1 through Oct. 1,2006.
Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D-Md., pushed for the measure to provide crab pickers and
oyster shuckers for the seafood industry in her state.

Judy Golub, senior policy and outreach director for the American Immigration
Lawyers Association, said many provisions had no other way for Congress to
address them or should have been addressed years ago. The provision for seasonal
workers, for example, will help businesses temporarily, "but isn't a fix."

"It's a weird way to do immigration," Golub said.

The new federal standards for driver's licenses and other border security
measures were attached to an earlier House-passed version of the bill by Rep.
James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.

Another provision, backed by the White House, dealt with people granted asylum.
Currently, 10,000 people who have been granted asylum can apply for permanent
residency each year. The provision eliminates that restriction.

More than 186,000 people granted asylum have applications for permanent
residency, said Bill Strassberger of Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Lawmakers agreed with Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan., to drop a limit of 1,000 a
year on people granted asylum from countries with forced population control such
as sterilizations and abortions. More than 7,000 people, most of them from
China, have been restricted to conditional asylum and cannot apply for permanent
residency, Strassberger said.

Under the legislation, Americans seeking driver's licenses will need far more
information. They will be asked for birth certificates, a photo ID, proof of
their Social Security number and a document with full name and home address.

Motor vehicle departments will be required to verify the documents and the
Social Security numbers. States could give licenses to illegal immigrants, but
they would have different designs to alert security that they are unacceptable
IDs for entering planes or federal buildings.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 19, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BIPARTISAN BILL SESERVES BUSH'S BACKING;
FOR LEGISLATION BALANCING SECURITY, ECONOMIC NEEDS TO PASS, PRESIDENT MUST
OPPOSE GOP HARD-LINERS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 477 words


In his State of the Union address, President Bush called for immigration reform.
Last week, Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Democratic Sen. Edward
Kennedy of Massachusetts turned Bush's outline into a comprehensive bill. But
the legislation will never see the light of day unless the president challenges
the anti-immigration wing of the Republican Party to tamp down its rhetoric and
compromise.

The Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act of 2005 recognizes that a
compromise on immigration must preserve economic opportunity for immigrants
while protecting the nation's borders. The United States must replace the
stealth and danger of border hopping with fair and consistent rule of law.

The bill would do this by creating three-year work visas that could be renewed
once. Newcomers would be matched with specific jobs that first had been offered
to Americans, and they would be given fraud-resistant IDs. Undocumented workers
here now also would be given temporary visas.

Border surveillance would be increased; penalties against companies that ignored
the new rules would be stiffened and enforced. Holders of temporary visas would
be given the opportunity, in time, to seek a green card and, eventually,
citizenship.

It is on this last point that the president and the bill's sponsors diverge.
Bush has not proposed giving green cards to those who crossed illegally,
although his press secretary said Bush has taken no position yet on the
Kennedy-McCain bill. Anti-immigration Republicans, however, insist that
"amnesty" for lawbreakers is out of the question.

Amnesty is not what McCain and Kennedy are proposing. Under their bill,
undocumented workers would have to pay back taxes and a $2,000 fine to get a
green card. They would not jump ahead in the immigration line. They would apply
for temporary visas, like other foreign workers, agree to a background and
security check, and have to prove a history of work.

New temporary work visas will not curb illegal immigration if they're limited to
agricultural workers, as Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., favors.

And the system will fail unless the nation's 10 million existing undocumented
workers participate in it. Workers won't step forward if they fear they'll face
deportation after six years -- not that it would actually happen. It's
implausible to imagine arresting and kicking out millions of families who have
been here for years, paying taxes, with roots in the community and children in
school.

The federal amnesty of 1986 failed to discourage illegal immigration or deter an
underground economy because it lacked teeth. The Kennedy-McCain bill includes
stiff employer penalties. It is pragmatic. That's why a surprising coalition of
business and labor groups, immigrant-rights activists and economic libertarians
support it.

Bush should, too.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 10, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. PUBLISHES GUIDE FOR NEW IMMIGRANTS;
GOAL IS TO EASE TRANSITION INTO AMERICAN LIFESTYLE

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 347 words


The first-ever government guide for new immigrants -- a 102-page color booklet
in English and Spanish that instructs permanent residents in everything from
their legal rights to finding a home and good schools -- was issued Thursday by
federal officials.

Alfonso Aguilar, chief of the office of citizenship for the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, said the goal of the publication is to ease new legal
immigrants into "a smoother and simpler transition into American life."

Aguilar also announced the launching of the new guide online, in Chinese and
Vietnamese, and by summer's end, he said, the guide will be online --
www.cis.gov -- in 10 languages.

"It's not only about immigration." Aguilar said. "It's also about integration
into American society."

Starting this week, the USCIS will begin publicizing the guide in immigrant
communities. CIS officers will hold community-based informational sessions
around the country.

The realm of guides for immigrants has long been the domain of immigration
lawyers, experts and non-profit community groups. The U.S. government had never
published such a guide.

"We're fundamentally transforming the delivery of service to immigrants,"
Aguilar said, "and making it hassle-free."

Since the old INS was split into three agencies under the Department of Homeland
Security in 2002, the USCIS has focused on providing information to immigrants
when they get green cards, become permanent residents or apply for citizenship.

Bay Area immigrants and their advocates welcomed the guide.

"I see it as preventive medicine," said Adriana Gonzalez, immigration and
citizenship program director for the Center for Employment Training, a
non-profit group in San Jose. "This booklet is full of good information."

From consulting the phone book to filing tax returns, to calling a national
hotline for victims of domestic violence, the guide is filled with information.
There is a section on buying or renting a home, the consequences of serious
criminal offenses (deportation) and the reasons for becoming a citizen.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
"Welcome to the United States: A Guide for New Immigrants," is free online in
English, Spanish, Chinese and Vietnamese at http:: uscis.gov:
graphics: citizenship: . By the end of July, it will be available online in
Tagalog, Korean, Russian, Arabic, French, Portuguese and Haitian Creole.
Printed copies are available in English and Spanish from the U.S. Government
Printing Office, (866) 512-1800 or through its Web site, http::
bookstore.gpo.gov. Individual copies cost $9.50. Bulk copies of the guide in
English cost $171 for a box of 100 copies; in Spanish, $112 for a box of 50.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 30, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORUM LOOKS AT IMPACT OF LAW;
IMMIGRANT ACTIVISTS CONCERNED ABOUT REAL ID PROGRAM

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 509 words


A community forum for Bay Area immigrants worried about the impact of new
immigration legislation approved by Congress last month will be today in San
Jose.

Shortly after the legislation -- Real ID -- was approved, Bay Area immigrants
flooded local hotlines, concerned about the impact on their ability to drive,
green cards and on immigrants seeking political asylum in the United States.

Real ID was attached to an emergency war-spending bill approved by Congress in
May. Now the federal government is developing regulations to implement those
changes.

One of the most controversial provision requires the 50 states to verify the
immigration status of all motorists applying for or renewing driver'slicenses.
States have three years to comply. Licenses from states that don't comply will
be refused as official identification when boarding airplanes or entering
federal buildings.

Meanwhile, California legislators are considering a two-tiered system: One kind
of license would be considered federal ID, another kind would be only for
operating a motor vehicle.

Controversy and concern surround the driver's license issue. Immigrant
communities are worried that a two-tiered system, as allowed by Real ID, may
lead to discrimination based on immigration status, said Kristen Hatanaka, staff
attorney with the Asian Law Alliance, a non-profit legal advocacy group in San
Jose.

"There's a lot of fear in the community," said Larisa Casillas, policy director
for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose non-profit
group that arranged the forum. A number of immigrant rights groups are
co-sponsoring the forum.

Although details of how the new driver's license legislation will be implemented
under Real ID are still pending, Casillas said it's important to share
information. Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network decided to hold
the forum because "there was a sense of panic" in immigrant communities trying
to make sense of Real ID's impact on their lives, she said.

Hatanaka, who will speak about driver's licenses, will be joined by Lynette
Parker, supervising attorney with the Katharine and George Alexander Community
Law Center in San Jose, who will discuss political asylum, and Stacy Tolchin, a
San Francisco immigration attorney, who will discuss definitions of a terrorist.

The speakers will also discuss tougher new rules for immigrants seeking
political asylum and the impact of criminal convictions on their green card
status.

"We can educate the communities that are affected," said Samina Faheem-Sundas,
founding director of the American Muslim Voice, a Newark cultural education
group. "And hopefully we can educate others to stand with us and fight these
inhumane legislations."

An immigrant from Pakistan, Faheem-Sundas, has been a vocal critic of Real ID
because she said "it targets immigrants."

Groups that supported Real ID said it will help control illegal immigration.

The forum will be today at 6 p.m. in the Northside Community Center, 488 North
Sixth St., San Jose.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 9, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BROADER BENEFIT DENIAL SOUGHT FOR MIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 66 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


Supporters of Proposition 200, a ballot issue to deny government benefits to
illegal immigrants, told voters the measure would affect only voter and welfare
fraud.

But Monday, they said they will argue in court that the initiative should also
apply to retirement, disability, public housing assistance, food assistance,
unemployment benefits, grants, contracts, loans and driver's licenses.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      July 20, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Senators propose worker visa bill;
TEMPORARY STAYS WOULD BE LINKED TO HOLDING JOBS IN U.S.

BYLINE: By Nicole Gaouette; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Two Republican senators from states with large numbers of illegal immigrants
introduced legislation Tuesday that would funnel at least $5 billion into border
enforcement and create a temporary-worker visa requiring foreigners to return to
their home countries when their jobs ended.

The bill, sponsored by Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona, would
toughen penalties for employers who hire undocumented workers, reimburse states
for the costs of holding illegal immigrants who commit crimes and require the
issuance of machine-readable, tamperproof Social Security cards within a year.

Kyl and Cornyn, whose home states stretch along 85 percent of the U.S.-Mexico
border, timed their bill's introduction to keep immigration on the front burner
at a time when debate over a Supreme Court nominee threatens to overshadow other
congressional business.

Reflecting the political reality of their states, where frustration with the
lack of border security runs high, the senators positioned their effort as a
''workable and enforceable'' solution -- a phrase that hinted at the political
balancing act they aimed to strike between plugging the nation's porous border
while still maintaining a flow of workers to businesses hungry for cheap labor.

The immigration issue, which President Bush has said is a priority for his
second term, is a divisive one for the GOP. Many business-oriented Republicans
want to ensure continued access to immigrant workers, while large numbers of
social conservatives are angered by the ease with which illegal immigrants evade
U.S. laws.

The Kyl-Cornyn bill is the latest entry in a crowded field that includes
legislation introduced in May by Sens. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John McCain,
R-Ariz., and a bill introduced Monday by Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo.

The Kennedy-McCain bill would create a new visa category that would not tie
temporary workers to one particular job and would allow them to apply for
permanent residency.

Tancredo's legislation would make it a felony to enter the United States
illegally and require the Department of Homeland Security to secure the border
before a single worker legally could enter the country.

The Kyl-Cornyn bill is perhaps an attempt to stake out the middle ground.

''Beyond the notion of returning the rule of law to the border, the single most
important aspect of this bill is that it does not reward those who have broken
the law, and does not constitute an amnesty,'' Kyl said.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 11, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Braceros program illustrates limits of guest-worker plans

BYLINE: By Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 871 words


Millions of people in Mexico need work. Americans have millions of jobs that we
apparently won't do ourselves. Presto! The answer to illegal immigration is
obviously a lawful guest-worker program.

That simple logic is behind various immigration reform bills under discussion
before Congress. Most entail guest-worker provisions that bring set numbers of
temporary workers in from Mexico, attached to particular employers who can
''prove'' they can't find Americans to work for them.

The problem is that we have unsuccessfully tried this approach before, from 1942
to 1964, with the braceros -- the hired ''arms'' from Mexico.

Various programs to bring Mexican laborers across the border were initially
small, supposedly temporary, and aimed only at alleviating wartime shortages of
labor.

But some 4 million braceros later, the idea of guest workers had evolved into a
huge labor exchange, delivering hardworking -- and very cheap -- farmworkers to
American employers, most of them large agribusiness concerns.

President Kennedy, under union pressure and shortly before his death, began to
phase out the braceros. He worried that the system was ''adversely affecting the
wages, working conditions and employment opportunities of our own agricultural
workers.''

But when well-meaning legislators, conservative and liberal alike, now propose
modern braceros for all sorts of hard-to-fill jobs, it is often with a weird
sense of nostalgia.

Sometimes, though, the remedy is worse than the problem. Bringing back the
braceros to work throughout the economy, and euphemistically calling them
''guest workers,'' would be just such a case.

Growing up in the rural San Joaquin Valley in California in the early 1960s, I
remember hardworking -- but not happy -- braceros. No one considered them
''guests'' at all, but rather more like helots -- a permanent class of serfs in
the fields whom the public neglected, the employer exploited and other workers
resented.

To ensure that braceros went back home to Mexico after harvest, portions of
their paychecks were often deposited with the Mexican government. Today
thousands of aged and disabled farmworkers are still in court trying to reclaim
those stolen wages.

In fact, almost every bad immigration stereotype we have today of both Mexico
and the United States -- corrupt Mexican officials, hard-nosed American
contractors, labor camps and exploited workers -- crystallized during the
bracero era.

Contrary to current popular mythology, most braceros, like most illegal aliens
today, never wanted to go back to Mexico after living most of the year in the
United States. But revisit newspapers of the time. The constant theme can be
summed up as something like ''good enough to work for us, not good enough to
live among us.''

Another constant, still with us today, was that cheap labor from Mexico -- at
first braceros, later illegal aliens -- made it almost impossible for American
farmworkers to see their own wages rise much.

Aside from the moral considerations, there are plenty of practical difficulties
with guest workers:



 What will we do with the millions of unlawful workers who either cannot or will
not participate in the program?



 Has the Mexican government changed all that much to be trusted as an honest
fiduciary to pay back the withheld wages of its returning citizens?



 How will temporary workers bargain with employers over compensation when they
are subject to deportation?



 Who pays for the costs of their health care, housing, pensions and disability?



 How can Americans talk of importing workers and yet worry about the scarcity of
jobs?

Our seemingly intractable problem with labor is an existential one -- and can't
be solved by allowing employers to ship in cheap workers from Mexico.

There are plenty of Americans in need of work. There are plenty of jobs begging
to be filled. The rub is that permanently mowing lawns, picking strawberries and
making beds do not pay enough to support a family.

And for those without command of the English language, without education and
without legality, these quickly turn into dead-end jobs. They are rarely now
seen as entry-level opportunities for students and beginning American workers to
gain valuable experience without competition from cheaper alien workers.

So we are back to the one solution of measured and legal immigration that we all
know will work but apparently dread:

Control our borders and enforce existing laws. Fine employers who hire illegal
immigrants. Provide a mechanism of foolproof identification. Return to policies
of English-language immersion and cultural assimilation. Pay more now in higher
labor costs -- but save far more later by avoiding entitlement, law enforcement
and social chaos.

And, most controversially, work out a one-time-only citizenship plan for those
who have resided for substantial time in the United States.

Americans are not Spartans, and their workers are not helots. So honor and
remember the noble braceros, but please don't bring back that age of heartbreak.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a classicist and historian at Stanford University's
Hoover Institution. Send e-mail to him at author@victorhanson.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 20, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN THE SHADOWS: CANDOR ABOUT IMMIGRATION;
U.S. IS OVERRUN WITH ETHICAL QUESTIONS

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 707 words


As President Bush's guest-worker proposals slog through Congress, new reports
suggest there may be not 8 million, but almost 20 million illegal immigrants in
the United States, a population larger than most entire states. A total of $400
billion in taxes -- almost the current annual budget deficit -- is not collected
because of a growing underground cash economy.

The hallowed assimilationist formula has too few overt defenders these days --
even though measured, legal immigration, English immersion, multiracialism
instead of multiculturalism, and integration have ensured that past legal
immigrants from Mexico are among America's finest citizens.

Cheap labor

The laissez-faire right still lectures on open borders as if it were a matter of
robust, lawful immigration -- emphasizing global competitiveness that accrues
from cheap labor. The minimum wage, not illegality, supposedly is its only
problem: If only the self-correcting market could be set free to adjudicate
wages, $2 an hour might not tempt any more from rural Mexico.

If employers count on inexpensive industrious laborers in the shadows,
chauvinists envision a revolving, but still permanent, unassimilated
constituency to enhance their own agendas. In response to the tired rhetoric,
perhaps it is better to envision illegal immigration from Mexico not as a
question of divisive politics, but of collective morality.

Is it ethical for the Mexican government to export annually 1 million to 2
million of its citizens to avoid long-overdue reform -- hoping to earn $12
billion in subsidies from its poorest abroad? No wonder Mexico talks of the
problem in terms of U.S. imperialism in lieu of its own cynicism.

Is it moral for employers to count on illegal, industrious workers, usually
without English or education, to undercut the wages of American citizens -- as
if a laborer remains youthful and hale in perpetuity with no need of social
entitlements when disabled or impoverished years later? No wonder employers
claim that they are only providing a service to Mexico's poor.

Prison costs

Is it so liberal that governments must pay for those who ignore the law while
citizens go without? In California, the money to incarcerate more than 14,000
felonious illegal immigrants from Mexico -- well over $400 million -- would help
the state's education fund at a time when Californians (including many
first-generation Mexican-American citizens) who are eligible for higher
education cannot find access or financial support.

Is it so fair to assume that the unemployed in our midst -- more than 10 percent
of the workforce in many counties of the American Southwest that are most
affected by illegal immigration -- cannot find entry-level work? No wonder we
insist that no one can discover a citizen to mow the lawn or cook his food -- as
if 30 years ago our yards were weedy and we did not eat out, as if states
without illegal immigrants have poor landscaping and empty restaurants.

Picking an illegal worker up at the local lumber yard, paying him in cash for a
day of digging, and then dumping him on the curb at twilight -- "out of sight,
out of mind" -- is neither liberal nor humane even if done in Santa Cruz or
Carmel.

And is it equitable that laws must be sacred for most, but not for some? Do we
really want a bureaucratic system near collapse from fraudulent Social Security
numbers, off-the-books wages, false names, cars without registration and
insurance, even as millions abroad queue up to enter our shores lawfully? Are we
to tell waiting Punjabis or Filipinos to certify their education, skills and
method of support -- even as we ask far less of those who break the law to cross
the border from Mexico?

Who's the moralist?

Who, then, is the real moralist? Is it the police officer who stops an illegal
immigrant but cannot call immigration authorities? The contractor who knowingly
accepts falsified identification and pays untaxed cash wages?

Or is it the rest of us, who in fear of being slurred as "racists" or
"nativists" often keep silent -- just when candor and honesty on all sides are
needed now if we are to avoid becoming an amoral apartheid society with a
permanent underclass in the shadows?

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a syndicated columnist, classicist and historian
at Stanford University's Hoover Institution.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MIGUEL SAHAGUN -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
A sign in Tijuana points toward the U.S. entry point at San Ysidro.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 20, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUSINESS PUNISHMENTS RESISTED IN MIGRANT BILL

BYLINE: JACQUES BILLEAUD, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX


Arizona lawmakers considering new restrictions against illegal immigrants have
stifled an attempt to punish businesses that get caught hiring illicit foreign
labor.

Critics say the proposal to restrict illegal immigrants from receiving certain
government benefits is unfair, because it focuses solely on illegal
border-crossers yet does nothing to confront the other side of Arizona's
immigration problems: employers who turn to immigrants for cheap labor.

"If we are going to do it, let's do it fair, let's do it consistent and let's
not be hypocrites," said Democratic Sen. Bill Brotherton of Phoenix, who
proposed adding eight employer sanctions on the immigrant-restriction proposal.

The sanctions would have revoked the tax benefits and required audits of
businesses that get caught hiring illegal immigrants. Violators would no longer
be eligible for state contracts, and their infractions would be posted on a
state Web site.

Opponents said sanctions would place a huge burden on businesses, which are
already limited by anti-discrimination laws in the way they can scrutinize
prospective employees in determining whether they are legal workers.

A sanction to suspend the business licenses of violators for six months, which
was initially approved and then stripped away, would have closed most small
employers, said Farrell Quinlan of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce.

Lawmakers initially rejected the eight proposed employer sanctions Monday.
Supporters of the sanctions then succeeded in reviving one of the measures, but
lawmakers erased that decision and called off voting on the remaining
punishments.

Brotherton said his proposals to punish employers who hire illegal immigrants
will probably be considered again soon.

Both sides of the debate said the federal government hasn't done enough to
fulfill its sole responsibility to enforce immigration laws already on the
books, including enforcing a federal prohibition on hiring the thousands of
foreign workers who sneak into the country each year.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 9, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IF YOU CARED, YOU'D CONTROL THE BORDER

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 784 words


A group of citizens calling themselves the "Minutemen" patrol the border looking
to stop immigrants from illegally entering the United States. Mexico's
president, Vicente Fox, states that Mexican migrant workers in the U.S. "are
doing jobs that not even blacks want to do."

Meanwhile, many Republicans think President Bush's guest-worker program either
mocks the law or is unworkable, while in California a frustrated Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger blurts out, "Close the borders in California and all across
Mexico and the United States."

Illegal immigration is again in the headlines, but the debate isn't going
anywhere. Instead, all the tired controversies are again being aired.

Quite illiberal

Some believe illegal immigration is a win-win bargain: An impoverished Mexico
obtains crucial dollars, while job-hungry America receives industrious unskilled
workers. Critics counter that millions of illegal workers undermine the sanctity
of the law, and only abet a corrupt Mexican government that uses remittances to
avoid needed reform.

Both sides agree that when newcomers arrive legally from Mexico in the
thousands, rather than unchecked in the millions, these immigrants become among
our best American citizens.

The politics are by now surreal. Those of the corporate right want cheap labor.
So they join the self-interested multicultural left in politics, journalism and
academia who don't mind seeing a growing presence of unassimilated and dependent
constituents.

Yet rarely mentioned in the debate are the illiberal aspects of millions coming
to the United States in violation of the law.

Take remittances. Billions of dollars are sent annually back to Mexico from its
citizens who come to the United States -- one of the largest sources of foreign
exchange for the Mexican economy.

But that cash does not come out of thin air. If such transfers aid depressed
parts of Mexico, they also drain capital from struggling immigrant communities
in the United States. Workers without high school diplomas who send back much of
their wages often cannot pay for their own proper heath care, education or
housing here.

Second, when employers hire millions of young laborers from Mexico -- often off
the books and in cash -- poorer American workers cannot organize and thus are
left to watch their own static wages eaten up by rising costs.

Third, what do we tell the millions of equally poor immigrants from Asia, Latin
America and Africa who wait years to come here legally? It is not especially
liberal to require an indigent Filipino or Ethiopian to learn English, find a
sponsor, hire a lawyer and queue up for years, while others simply break the law
and come here illegally.

Fourth, progressives are understandably proud of environmental legislation,
zoning laws and the culture of recycling in states such as California. But when
millions in this country don't speak English, are impoverished and uneducated,
and live outside the law, it is only natural that they do not have the money to
worry about how many families live in a single house, whether cars meet emission
standards, or whether discarded furniture is disposed of in authorized landfills
rather than on roadsides.

Fifth, the question of concern for the underprivileged seems not always to
extend to our own citizens. California, for example has more than 14,000 illegal
immigrants incarcerated in its prisons, costing yearly more than 20 times the
annual budget of the under-funded new University of California-Merced -- a
college located where it could best serve underrepresented poor and minorities.

Elitist view of youth

Finally, there is something elitist in this new idea that American youth should
no longer work summers and after-school hours in agriculture, hotels,
restaurants and landscaping. These hard jobs were once seen as ways to gain
experience and understand the nobility of hard physical work. An entire
generation of Americans is growing up that has never mowed a lawn, pruned a bush
or washed a dish.

For too long the debate over illegal immigration has been demagogued on
hot-button issues of economics, ethnicity and relations with Mexico. The subtext
always has been that those who support open borders are somehow more caring or
ethical than their purportedly insensitive opponents who wish a return to
measured and legal immigration.

In fact, the opposite is true. More frequently it is an uncaring elite -- made
up of both Democrats and Republicans -- that advocates not enforcing immigration
laws. And it is past time for them to explain why it is moral or liberal, rather
than merely convenient, to import millions outside the law to do the jobs we
supposedly cannot.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: VICTOR DAVIS HANSON is a classicist and historian at Stanford
University's Hoover Institution.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOHN LEE -- CHICAGO TRIBUNE
It is past time to explain why it is moral or liberal, rather than convenient,
to illegally import millions to do the jobs we supposedly cannot.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 30, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLL: BUSH WORKER PLAN FUELS ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 109 words


The Bush administration's guest worker plan has helped feed illegal immigration
because some believed President Bush is offering amnesty, according to a
watchdog group's analysis of a poll of immigrants detained by the Border Patrol.

The survey, some of the results of which were obtained, analyzed and released
Tuesday by Judicial Watch, found that 63 percent of more than 800 immigrants
arrested along the nation's southern border said they had heard from the Mexican
government or media that Bush was offering amnesty. Forty-five percent said they
attempted to cross the border based on those beliefs, and 80 percent wanted to
apply for amnesty.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 20, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CASINOS PLAY UNWITTING ROLE IN ALIEN SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 69 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Immigrant smugglers seeking to recruit Americans willing to help sneak illegal
immigrants across the border have turned to unlucky gamblers at San Diego County
casinos, the San Diego Union-Tribune reported Sunday.

Casino parking lots have been used as staging areas for smuggling operations
because the crowds provide cover and the casinos themselves are a quick way to
launder profits, federal agents say.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 24, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

'Green cards' stalled for foreign workers;
U.S. TRYING TO SPEED UP PROCESS

BYLINE: By S. Mitra Kalita; Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: BALA CYNWYD, Pa.


Hundreds of thousands of immigrant workers trying to stay in the United States
find their journey halted somewhere along a maze of boxes, filing cabinets and
cubicles of government contractors.

The backlog of foreign workers seeking ''green cards,'' which allow immigrants
to live and work in the United States permanently, numbers more than 330,000. In
September, the Department of Labor set up a center in this Philadelphia suburb
and another in Dallas to quicken the first step of processing for
employment-based green cards.

But while the federal agency said it has spent time and money to ease a
complicated traffic jam, immigrants, their employers and lawyers have been
growing impatient.

''It's too long,'' said Rajesh Poudyal, who emigrated from Nepal 15 years ago on
a student visa. His employer, a contractor for NASA in Greenbelt, Md., applied
for his green card in November 2001. ''You don't know if it's going to be
another three-year wait. You keep thinking, 'It's going to happen. It's going to
happen.' ''

And yet it hasn't.

Government officials say the wait has been too long for most of the immigrant
workers hoping for their green cards. The oldest case is from August 1998. On
March 28, the Labor Department introduced a computerized fast-track processing
system to handle new applications, doling them out to two centers. Between the
backlog centers and the new sites, labor officials said, they have streamlined a
multi-layered process that could have had some waiting as long as six more
years. Now, they say, the backlog should be cleared within two years.

In employment-based green card applications, the Labor Department essentially
certifies that the employer exists and that the immigrant is being paid the
prevailing wage for the job described. In most cases, employers must also prove
that they sought to hire U.S. workers for the job but could not. As proof, they
provide help-wanted advertisements and summaries of their recruitment methods.

From this stage, known as labor certification, the application travels to the
Department of Homeland Security, which conducts its own review and decides
whether to allow the immigrant to petition for residency status.

Before the backlog accumulated, immigration attorneys say, labor certification
generally took 30 to 90 days.

Under the new fast-track system, labor officials say, the process should
routinely take up to 60 days.

But there is no such expectation for the 174,000 people awaiting processing here
from about half the states. Besides 10 federal workers, the remaining staff of
100 work for Exceed Corp., the company that successfully competed for the
backlog contract.

Starting last year, all 50 states sent boxes upon boxes to one of the two
backlog sites. Officials said they hope to act on the applications on a
first-in, first-out basis and that they have entered about 80 percent of the
applicants' data into a computerized system over the past year.

The backlog stems from the passage of legislation that allowed undocumented
immigrants or immigrants who had overstayed their visas to apply for green cards
if a family member or employer sponsored them -- but they had to do it by April
2001. The result was a surge of green card applications.

The result has also been some resentment of workers who have not been in the
United States legally from workers who have.

''They've given priority to illegal immigrants,'' said Poudyal, who is on the
visa for highly skilled but temporary workers known as an H-1B. ''That's how
we've become stuck.''

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 14, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

More or fewer? Let's get some facts and then decide

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 407 words


Silicon Valley employers seeking to bring in skilled foreign workers in 2006
will find a ''sold out'' sign at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service,
the agency that grants visas.

As of Friday, two months before the start of fiscal 2006, all of the 65,000 H-1B
visas allowed for the year had been taken. Like last year, the visas, which are
used by engineers, computer programmers and other knowledge workers, will have
been gone by Oct. 1, the first day of the next fiscal year.

This will reignite a years-old debate between the tech industry and groups
representing U.S. engineers and other information technology workers. The
industry says it can't find enough skilled workers here and argues that Congress
should raise the visa cap. The U.S. worker groups say the visas are being
misused by some companies, which bring in foreign workers at lower wages while
qualified U.S. workers remain unemployed or underemployed.

The debate won't be settled until Congress agrees to shed more light on the H-1B
visa program. It should require reporting on the number, wages, educational
background, job categories and length of stay of H-1B workers at each firm.

With this data each year, any misuse would quickly come to light, and the need
for the visas -- or lack of need -- would become clearer. The impact of guest
workers on the U.S. labor market would be easier to analyze. And if guest
workers really are needed, tech companies would have an easier time making their
case.

This is an important issue for the valley and for the American economy.

If there is a shortage of qualified tech workers here, then failing to allow
foreign workers to fill the gap will only accelerate the shift of jobs overseas
and further erode American competitiveness in technology. Shutting out highly
skilled foreigners who were trained at U.S. universities, often at taxpayers'
expense, would be particularly stupid.

But if H-1B visas are being used to import low-paid foreign workers for jobs
that American workers easily could fill, the negative impact on the U.S. economy
will be both immediate and long lasting. Not only will U.S. engineers remain
unemployed, but young people also will be discouraged from pursuing science and
engineering degrees, further undermining U.S. competitiveness and leadership in
technology.

Striking the right balance is critical. It will be impossible without better
data, and only Congress can mandate it.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 18, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Citing labor shortage, growers back guest-worker program;
SOME EXPERTS SEE LITTLE EVIDENCE OF FARMERS' CLAIMS

BYLINE: By Juliana Barbassa; Associated Press

SECTION: BU; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: FRESNO


Raisin grower Richard Garabedian knows the gamble: The longer his grapes stay on
the vine, the sweeter the raisins -- but the higher the chance they'll get
caught by the rains that can ruin a year's worth of work.

But this season, the stakes are higher. The raisin harvest is peaking, but
agriculture's primary workforce -- unauthorized immigrants -- is scarce,
probably drained by a booming construction industry and tighter enforcement
along the U.S.-Mexico border, prompting renewed calls for a guest-worker
program.

''We just don't have enough people, and it's a perishable crop,'' Garabedian
said, worried not just for himself, but for an industry emerging from a glut
that has forced growers to rip out nearly 100,000 acres of grapevines over the
past five years.

Raisin making remains one of the nation's most labor-intensive harvests. About
40,000 workers are needed to hand-pick the grapes over six weeks, then dry them
in the sun.

This year, growers expect to harvest at least 240,000 tons of raisins. All the
fruit has to be off the vines before Tuesday or crop insurers won't cover any
losses caused by rain.

For the past couple of years, growers said they've felt the labor pool
tightening as workers leave low-wage, seasonal jobs for better-paying,
year-round city jobs. Construction jobs are a big draw, experts said.

Meanwhile, a beefed-up border patrol has made more arrests along the Mexican
border, making it harder for illegal immigrants to reach jobs awaiting them in
the fields.

The number of people caught crossing the border by the U.S. Border Patrol
increased from 905,065 in 2003 to 1,077,598 in the first eight months of this
year, said Luis Gonzalez, spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol.

Garabedian and other growers have supported different versions of guest-worker
programs, but some farm-labor experts question assertions that there is a
farm-labor shortage.

''I still haven't seen the effects associated with a real shortage -- rising
wages for workers and rising prices for consumers,'' said Philip Martin, an
agriculture economist with the University of California-Davis.

Martin and others said farmers might be exaggerating the situation to push for
the Agricultural Job Opportunity, Benefits and Security Act of 2005, a measure
that would allow illegal immigrants working in the fields to become legal
residents and eventually citizens.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 23, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

White House gives details on guest-worker proposal

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


White House political strategist Karl Rove is offering lawmakers new details of
an administration-backed guest-worker program that would temporarily legalize
the status of millions of illegal immigrants, according to Republicans who have
attended the meetings.

''There is a level of detail that was not there before that is very important,''
said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Vista.

In January 2004, Bush said he wanted to allow illegal immigrants to apply for a
three-year work visa, with the possibility of a single three-year extension
before having to return to their native countries.

At recent presentations led by Rove, administration officials are telling
lawmakers that under Bush's plan, any worker who is here illegally would first
have to pay a substantial fine before being granted a temporary work visa.

Administration officials also are telling lawmakers that workers who participate
in the program and then return to their native countries would be allowed to
reapply for a guest-worker visa after a year.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 13, 2004 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE CANDIDATE JONES WANTS GUEST-WORKER IDS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 94 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Although he said he opposes issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants,
Republican U.S. Senate hopeful Bill Jones on Tuesday called for the development
of fraud-proof identification cards that eventually could be given to
participants in a guest-worker program.

Jones, who is challenging Democratic U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer, said, "The
employers need workers, and we need to provide an opportunity for thoseworkers
for the economy of California.

"A guest-worker program, a program that actually has verifiable ID, is a
fundamental part of a solution."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 23, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE IMMIGRATION FUSE IS LIT;
BUT IT'S UNLIKELY U.S. WILL GO BEYOND BUSH'S GUEST-WORKER PLAN

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 651 words


Immigration is back on the agenda. It would have been a dynamite issue for the
presidential campaign, but neither President George W. Bush nor his challenger,
Sen. John Kerry, had the nerve to light the fuse. Safely re-elected, Bush
finally did.

"I think it's important for our country to recognize that people are coming to
our country to do jobs that Americans won't do," Bush said after meeting last
weekend with President Vicente Fox of Mexico. "I'm going to find supporters on
the Hill and move it."

The object to be moved is a guest-worker proposal that's been stuck on a White
House shelf for nearly four years. Part of the plan calls for turning illegal
immigrants into legal, temporary workers. I'm not a fan of guest-worker
programs, but this looks like the only immigration deal with the hope of a
prayer.

You can bet the house that the Democrats in Congress will argue for giving
guest-workers a shot at citizenship, which would be the decent, American thing
to do. They'll even bring up the history of temporary worker programs producing
more illegal immigration five decades ago. They'll argue loud and clear for
about one morning, to themselves, and then slouch in their seats as Republican
immigration reformers take over.

"What part of the word 'illegal' don't you understand?"

Some of you may recall a reader I mentioned who fired off that question every
time I proposed a solution to illegal immigration. It's become the rallying cry
for those who would militarize the border and renew deportation campaigns like
those of the 1930s and 1950s. In their way of thinking, anything short of a
one-way ticket home is a reward for lawbreakers.

Bush couldn't get even a limited, agricultural guest-worker deal past the
hard-liners, then shelved it after Sept. 11 and through the war on Iraq. Maybe
now he can use some of that political "capital" he bragged about having earned
to push through an immigration deal with Mexico.

The guest-worker concept is flawed. Here's why:

The bracero program of the 1950s, the largest of its kind, brought in thousands
of desperately needed Mexican farmhands, but historians also believe it
jump-started the pattern of illegal immigration we have today. Most braceros
returned to Mexico after their work permits expired only to find the same dreary
economic conditions they had left. So thousands turned back and jumped the
border, many finding better jobs in American cities as dishwashers, construction
laborers and nannies.

The bracero program also became notorious for exploitation and corruption.
Farmers often didn't pay agreed upon wages, and corrupt Mexicanofficials stole
from the special savings funds set up for the workers on their return home.

Presidents Bush and Fox promise nothing of the sort will happen again. That may
look good on paper, but it's hard to believe that Bush, a free-marketeer at
heart, will see to it that American employers are fined or jailed for cheating
guest workers. As for the Mexican side, Fox has failed so far to deliver on much
of his anti-corruption promises.

So if guest-worker programs are so risky, why bother?

Because the best short-term answer, amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants
already here, is asking too much from a more conservative Congress whose leaders
are dead-set against rewarding lawbreakers. The best long-term solution, massive
U.S. aid for economic development in Mexico, doesn't have a prayer so long as
the American government is in hock.

I'm afraid all that's possible is a strict, no-citizenship guest-worker program.
Something is better than nothing. There might even be a payoff if we're lucky.
The president's guest-worker program might work smoothly and long enough to
convince the majority of Americans that we truly have a drastic shortage of
workers for low-wage and dead-end jobs. Then and only then can we get to work on
the real solutions.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: JOE RODRIGUEZ 's columns appear Tuesday and Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TERRENCE ANTONIO JAMES -- CHICAGO TRIBUNE
U.S. Border Patrol agents stand guard near a simple barbed-wire fence that
separates Arizona from Mexico.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 28, 2005 Friday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

DAY WORKERS MARCH FOR JUSTICE, SAFETY;
RALLY HIGHLIGHTS THREATS IMMIGRANT LABORERS FACE NATIONALLY
RECENT VIOLENT ATTACKS AGAINST IMMIGRANT WORKERS AND ARRESTS OF OTHERS BROUGHT
OUT 100 BAY AREA DAY WORKERS.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 646 words


Worried about a number of violent attacks against immigrant workers in Florida
and the recent arrests of others in San Mateo and Southern California, about 100
Bay Area day workers marched and rallied in Mountain View on Thursday evening as
part of a national vigil to press for greater protection for day laborers.

"We protest the attacks and we ask the authorities to continue with their
investigations," said Maria Marroquin, director of the Worker Center at the
Calvary Church in Mountain View.

"But we also urge reconciliation," Marroquin said. "We don't want this to be
repeated, and we want to say to day workers everywhere that they're not alone.
We're here to support each other."

The mayor of Mountain View, Matt Neely, joined the gathering to express support.

"Today is about ending violence against day workers," said Neely, "but to me,
it's a much broader issue. It's about understanding how other people live."

The protest comes on the heels of last week's undercover operation in San Mateo
County, where 14 day workers, many of them from Guatemala, were arrested and
ticketed for illegally soliciting work from downtown streets.

Day workers typically gather near shopping centers in hopes of being picked for
hourly jobs. Many are hired by moving, construction, demolition and landscaping
firms, as well as by individual homeowners. Violence against them inspired
rallies in Portland, Chicago, Long Island and Washington, D.C.

Last year, two workers from Guatemala were killed in Jacksonville, Fla., in a
wave of home-invasion robberies and beatings targeting Hispanic day laborers.
The attacks are under investigation.

In Redondo Beach in October, the city arrested and cited dozens of day workers
for soliciting work. A judge has blocked the city from continuing with the
arrests while the case is pending.

Thursday's rally in Mountain View, which began at the center where they gather
each day to wait for employment, drew day workers from San Francisco, Oakland,
San Jose, Sunnyvale and Santa Rosa. They carried hand-painted signs, marched to
the steps of the Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts and chanted, "What
do we want? Justice! Justice!"

"We are not terrorists," said Marco Antonio Cedillo, a worker from Mountain
View, who also volunteers at the center. "We only want to participate in the
progress of this great nation," he said in Spanish. "We have dignity and we need
and have (to) work."

No reports of violent attacks against day workers have been reported in the Bay
Area, but incidents elsewhere are a cause for concern, said John Rinaldi, a
volunteer attorney for the Mountain View worker center.

"It's fortunate for us, but the difficulties these workers live with on a
day-to-day basis continue," Rinaldi said. "Their life is really hard."

In October, a small group of unidentified protesters heckled day workers who
congregated on the sidewalk at the parking lot's edge at Orchard Supply Hardware
on West San Carlos in San Jose.

After a month, the protesters left without incident.

The most recent arrests of day workers in San Mateo was not a crackdown, but a
reluctant last step, said Capt. Mike Callagy of the San Mateo Police Department.

Police officers repeatedly warned the workers who gathered in downtown San Mateo
that they were violating a city ordinance that prohibited work solicitation on
the streets, Callagy said. The workers were also told they can go to the worker
center at Samaritan House in San Mateo, he said.

"Our desire is never to cite anyone," Callagy said. "We have a safe haven for
workers where they can find employers without putting themselves and others in
danger on the streets."

Beginning next week, a bilingual representative of the worker center in San
Mateo will distribute fliers about the center, where they can deal directly with
potential employers.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Also Ran: page 1C Morning Final edition
Mountain View

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO - MERCURY NEWS
Day laborers including Hector Valdez, left, and Eduardo Palomo, second from
right, march Thursday in Mountain View to denounce violence against their fellow
workers across the country, and close to home.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO - MERCURY NEWS
Lucio Delgado carries a sign. Marchers chanted, "What do we want? Justice!
Justice!" en route to the Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts.
PHOTO: DAI SUGANO - MERCURY NEWS
An unidentified pedestrian watches as marchers gather to denounce the recent
escalation in violence against day laborers.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 28, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GATES: END LIMIT ON H-1BS;
SAYS EXECUTIVES CAN'T FIND ENOUGH U.S. TECH WORKERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 353 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates urged the Bush administration and lawmakers
Wednesday to abolish immigration limits on foreign engineers who can be hired by
U.S. companies, a sensitive subject among U.S. technology workers watching their
jobs increasingly move overseas.

During a visit to lobby personally for changes in federal policy, the world's
richest executive said the government should eliminate the limit of 65,000 for
overseas workers who can be hired each year by U.S. firms under specialty H-1B
visas aimed at drawing engineers, scientists, architects and doctors to the
United States.

"The whole idea of the H-1B visa thing is, don't let too many smart people come
into the country," Gates said during an invitation-only panel discussion at the
Library of Congress. "The thing basically doesn't make sense."

Responding to a question about policy changes Gates would make if he were king,
Gates said he "probably will get myself in trouble on this one." He endorsed
more intensive study of nuclear power, improvements to U.S. schools and more
research spending by government.

"I'd certainly get rid of the H-1B visa cap," Gates added. "That's one of the
easiest decisions."

Gates and other leading technology executives have pressed Congress aggressively
to let them hire more foreign employees by raising visa limits, but Gates hasn't
previously campaigned to abolish the immigration law entirely. Technology
executives have argued that they are unable to find qualified U.S. workers, a
contention disputed by U.S. labor groups and unemployed computer engineers.

"Anybody who's got good computer-science training, they are not out there
unemployed," Gates said. "We're just not seeing an available labor pool."

The Commerce Department undersecretary for technology, Phil Bond, cautioned
Gates during his talk that unemployment among U.S. computer engineers regularly
exceeds unemployment in other industries. "The politics of that are real," Bond
said. Government figures showed 5.7 percent of information-technology employees
were out of work last year vs. 5.5 percent of all workers.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 4, 2005 Monday MO1 EDITION

California news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 461 words




SACRAMENTO

Constitutional changes aimed at immigrants

The heated debate over immigration will resurface in the state Assembly this
week as lawmakers consider two constitutional amendments.

Assemblyman Mark Wyland, R-Vista, says his proposal would discourage illegal
immigration and avoid enormous costs, in part by preventing illegal immigrants
from receiving any health care or social services not required by federal law.

The other constitutional amendment, by Assemblyman Ray Haynes, R-Temecula, would
create the California border police, a force of about 1,500 to 2,000 officers
who would supplement federal border police and enforce laws that bar employment
of illegal immigrants.

LOS ANGELES

$86 million tab for storm-damaged roads

This winter's rainfall may not have broken the record, but it left its mark in
the form of potholes and damage that will take years and millions of dollars to
repair.

Dozens of streets in Los Angeles County, including some commuter roads, remain
damaged or closed as a result of the rain. Officials estimate it will cost $86
million to make repairs to county roadways.

CALEXICO

Small quake rattles Baja California area

A small earthquake shook northeastern Baja California early Sunday. There were
no immediate reports of damage or injuries.

The magnitude 3.2 temblor struck at 6:16 a.m. and was centered five miles north
of Guadalupe Victoria and 21 miles west southwest of San Luis, Ariz., according
to preliminary data from the U.S. Geological Survey.

GUERNEVILLE

Man drowns trying to swim Russian River

A 45-year-old transient wearing jeans, a cowboy hat and boots drowned Saturday
as he tried to swim across the Russian River, according to the Sonoma County
Sheriff's Department.

The unidentified man was pulled to shore by sunbathers, but paramedics called to
the scene pronounced him dead.

Marijuana discovery closes remote park

A state park in Sonoma County was closed more than four hours after deputies
discovered a network of marijuana plants with an end-of-season harvest value
estimated at $47 million, the sheriff's department reported.

Lt. Roger Rude said deputies discovered 23,652 plants in the Gilliam Creek
drainage area of the Austin Creek State Recreation Area late Friday.

LAKE TAHOE

Snow still covers many Sierra Nevada trails

The snowiest winter in six years is having a lingering effect on campers and
hikers in the Reno-Tahoe area.

Many popular trails such as the Pacific Crest Trail are still covered with snow
in the Lake Tahoe area, including Desolation Wilderness.

Visitors are being encouraged to carry a map and compass because trails are
covered with snow above 7,500 feet.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 25, 2005 Monday MO1 EDITION

Saying no to volunteer guards;
POLICING THE BORDER IS A JOB FOR PROS -- WHO NEED MORE FEDERAL SUPPORT

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 423 words


The nation's top immigration cop obviously hadn't checked before running his
idea up the flagpole.

One day after Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert Bonner suggested
that vigilante groups like the Minutemen be made civilian companions to the
Border Patrol, his bosses at Homeland Security not only failed to salute but
wisely disavowed the idea.

''There are currently no plans to use civilian volunteers to patrol the
border,'' an official said. That job should be left to the pros.

Homeland Security, which oversees the Border Patrol, certainly doesn't need to
complicate its already difficult mission by inviting in legions of outsiders.
Now, if only the agency could persuade President Bush and Congress to beef up
the Border Patrol and establish a system of work visas, accompanied by employer
sanctions, for Mexicans who would qualify to come here and for some here
already. Bringing illegal immigration to an end will not be solved without both
actions.

The Minutemen are right about one thing: Agents are stretched too thin along the
Mexican border to prevent the flow of drugs, illegal immigrants and perhaps
terrorists across it. Even though 1.1 million immigrants were detained at the
border last year, many more slipped in.

That's why bouncers like the Minutemen, who first began strutting around the
wilds of Arizona in April, showed up south of San Diego last week. And it's why
Assemblyman Ray Haynes, R-Temecula, and supporters have begun collecting
signatures to put another screwy idea before state voters in 2006. Haynes is
proposing to create a 1,700 member California Border Police, an adjunct of the
State Police, at a cost of at least $300 million a year.

Immigration is a federal job. It's not Sacramento's responsibility to guard the
border. And civilian patrols are definitely not the answer.

Commissioner Bonner was impressed that the Minutemen in Arizona had cooperated
with the Border Patrol and had avoided directly confronting border hoppers.
Bonner suggested forming a volunteer organization like the Coast Guard
Auxiliary, which assists with search-and-rescue operations, vessel safety checks
and public education. But while auxiliary members are unarmed, the Minutemen in
San Diego have being carrying guns -- an invitation for trouble. And some are
zealots.

Divisions within the Republican Party over immigration have quashed immigration
reforms. Until President Bush moves to break the stalemate, the Minuteman
movement and tensions over illegal immigration will spread.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      July 27, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

California and the West news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 516 words




SAN DIEGO

Tensions rise at border over civilian patrols

Clashes between California Minutemen and protesters are heating up along the
Mexican border with reports of shots fired and an alleged scuffle between a
state senator's aide and a university professor.

The confrontation between University of California-Riverside ethnic-studies
Professor Armando Navarro and Mark Belgen, an aide to Sen. Bill Morrow, R-San
Juan Capistrano, allegedly occurred July 16 in the border town of Campo. The
area, about 40 miles southeast of San Diego, is where several dozen anti-illegal
immigrant activists have set up watch for migrants crossing the border. They are
expected to continue patrols through Aug. 7.

Belgen was accompanying Morrow to Campo to support the California Minuteman
Project's anti-illegal immigrant border patrol group, modeled after the group
that monitored Arizona's border earlier this year. He alleges that Navarro
kicked him.

Belgen was unhurt and told the North County Times he waited to report the
incident until late last week because initially he did not know kicking was
considered an assault.

Navarro, who heads the immigrants rights group National Alliance for Human
Rights and was protesting the Minutemen, declined to comment to the newspaper.

The Minutemen said protesters have called them racists and surrounded them as
they mount their patrols. They also reported shots fired, though no one has been
hurt.

Protesters have accused the Minutemen, some of whom carry guns, of brandishing
their weapons and yelling racial epithets.

SACRAMENTO

Guard's family sues prison over his death

The family of the first guard to be murdered in an adult prison in California in
20 years has filed a $100 million civil suit, alleging corrections
administrators' ''deliberate indifference'' to safety considerations led to the
slaying.

Correctional Officer Manuel A. Gonzalez was stabbed to death Jan. 10 at the
California Institution for Men in Chino, as a stab-resistant vest assigned to
him sat in a warehouse with 361 others. The vests were quickly distributed after
his death.

Corrections Department spokesman Todd Slosek said officials hadn't seen the
suit, which was filed Friday in Los Angeles federal court, and couldn't comment.


NAPA

Vintners vow to protect wine naming rights

In a meeting of the new and old worlds of wine, European and West Coast vintners
signed a pact Tuesday, vowing to protect naming rights from Champagne to Napa.

''When it comes to wine, place matters,'' said Joel Aiken, president of the Napa
Valley Vintners' board.

The pact, a ''joint statement of principles,'' was signed by representatives of
Napa and vintners in Oregon and Washington as well as the European wine-growing
regions of Champagne, Port and Sherry.

Vintners, who toasted their agreement at Copia, the Napa wine museum -- with
Champagne, naturally -- said they are taking action because of concern about
mislabeling and the lack of legal protection for geographically based names in
the United States.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 18, 2005 Thursday

Schwarzenegger backs border emergencies;
SUPPORTS NEW MEXICO, ARIZONA GOVERNORS BUT STOPS SHORT OF JOINING THEM

BYLINE: By Kate Folmar; Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Wednesday voiced support for two Democratic
governors who have declared states of emergency in some border areas -- but the
Republican governor stopped short of saying that California should follow suit.

Schwarzenegger, whose previous comments on immigration have rankled some
Latinos, said he empathizes with concerns about illegal immigration, border
violence and drug trafficking.

''I think it's a terrific idea, what they have done,'' Schwarzenegger said of
Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano and New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson. ''And it is
not just the flow of illegal immigrants that are coming over here, but it's also
the drug trafficking that is going on, the violence that is going on on the
borders, and the human trafficking that is going on.

''So the concerns are just very broad, and on both sides, on the Mexican side
and on the American side,'' he added in an interview with San Diego talk radio.

It's a more nuanced view for Schwarzenegger, who has made some controversial
comments on immigration since garnering significant support from Latinos in the
2003 recall election. Those statements fueled concerns that Schwarzenegger would
exploit the wedge issue of immigration to solidify conservative support during
an ebb in his popularity, much as Gov. Pete Wilson did with the anti-illegal
immigrant Proposition 187 approved by voters in 1994.

And it's a continuation of Schwarzenegger's effort to portray himself as a
governor who is on the job, tackling policy rather than just mucking around in
special election politics.

Schwarzenegger is strategically seeking cover by aligning himself with
Democratic governors, said Jaime Regalado, who directs the Pat Brown Institute
of Public Affairs at California State University, Los Angeles.

''I think Arnold and his strategists feel that walking a middle course is the
more sane course to walk right now given the backlash -- and kudos -- he got
from previous statements, Regalado said.

An immigrant from Austria, Schwarzenegger once said that California borders
should be closed, only to later apologize and clarify that he meant they should
be secured. He praised the self-appointed Minutemen border patrollers, leading
to complaints that Schwarzenegger was tacitly endorsing vigilantism. And it took
more than a year for him to visit Mexico and speak with officials there --
something he did during a brief visit to the Border Governor's Conference in the
state of Coahuila, Mexico, last month.

Those actions, analysts said, overshadowed the governor's comments that legal
immigrants make valuable contributions to California.

Speaking to conservative talk radio host Rick Roberts of KFMB, Schwarzenegger
said he had no immediate plans to declare a state of emergency for border
counties, but would consider doing so ''if there is a need.''

Margita Thompson, Schwarzenegger's press secretary, later said in a statement
that there are ''currently there are no set of circumstances'' that require such
a declaration here.

In New Mexico and Arizona, those declarations freed up $1.75 million and $1.5
million, respectively, for increased law enforcement in counties that have faced
border violence and property damage.

Schwarzenegger singled out the actions of Richardson, one of the country's most
prominent Mexican-American politicians, ''because so many times when you make a
move like that you're considered immediately a racist.''

There are valid concerns about increasing border enforcement, said Assemblyman
Dave Jones, a Sacramento Democrat who once advised former United States Attorney
General Janet Reno. But he wishes Schwarzenegger would also acknowledge that
businesses depend on the cheap labor of undocumented workers fleeing dire
economies in their home countries.

''I would like to hear the governor talk -- in addition to securing our borders
-- about addressing the underlying problems,'' Jones said.

Democratic consultant Roger Salazar was not impressed with the governor's latest
thoughts.

''Where has he been for the last year and a half?'' asked Salazar. ''It sounds
like he's trying to play catch-up with what others have done. His comments are
all over the place.''

But Dan Schnur, a GOP consultant, thought Schwarzenegger struck the right tone
to appeal to Californians who value the state's diversity but worry about
illegal immigration's effect on school crowding and strained health care
services.

''Talking about illegal immigration is a tricky proposition for any
politician,'' Schnur said. ''It's important not to come across as partisan. It's
important not to sound like you're targeting a particular race or ethnic group.
And it's important to balance between the benefits of legal immigration and the
difficulties that accompany illegal immigration.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 23, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

A state of emergency for Democratic governors;
BORDER CRISIS REQUIRES VISA REFORMS, ENHANCED ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 488 words


Two Democratic governors have cranked up the volume of the debate over illegal
immigration. At some point, even President Bush and congressional leaders with
ear plugs will be forced to listen -- and do something.

Govs. Bill Richardson of New Mexico and Janet Napolitano of Arizona declared
states of emergency in several counties bordering Mexico, freeing up money for
border patrols, night-vision goggles and overtime pay they say is needed to stop
illegal immigrants, drug smuggling and other crimes proliferating along the
border.

The declarations were, in part, a partisan slap at the Bush administration,
which the governors accused of failing to keep their borders safe and secure.
Neither Texas Gov. Rick Perry nor California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, both
Republicans, followed suit. However, Schwarzenegger was not quiet on the issue,
saying he was sympathetic and might take similar action in the future.

But Richardson's and Napolitano's actions also reflect Democrats' realization
that deep and growing divisions on immigration are cutting across party and
ethnic lines. Both governors, who are facing re-election next year, understand
that voters could just as easily blame them for the problems.

Immigration is a volatile issue, and tensions are building along border
communities. Earlier this month, Tony Garza, the American ambassador to Mexico,
closed the consulate in Nuevo Laredo, opposite Laredo, Texas, for a week after
the assassination of the police chief and dozens of drug-related killings. On
the American side, the Minutemen are stepping up efforts to recruit volunteers
for border patrols.

There is a sensible solution: tighter borders in concert with a new visa
program, both for Mexicans in Mexico and those already in America. They would be
accompanied by penalties, enforced once and for all, against employers who
violate the rules. A bipartisan bill sponsored by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
and Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., has taken such a balanced approach. Bush also has
called for a temporary visa program, though without a possible path to
citizenship for undocumented workers here now. But the closed-border wing of
Republicans in Congress has thwarted any action, and the president hasn't tried
to force the issue.

Still, Democrats who simply sit back and celebrate the Republican stalemate do
so at their peril. Most voters favor curbs on illegal immigration. Even a third
of Hispanics expressed the view that there already were too many immigrants in
America, and steps should be taken to prevent others from entering, according to
a recent survey by a Democratic Party pollster.

Richardson, a Latino with possible presidential ambitions, favors liberal
immigration policies. But the Minutemen themselves could have written his
state-of-emergency declaration.

He and Napolitano know that voters will hold one or the other party responsible
for inaction or indifference.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 13, 2005 Tuesday

Additional 'Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2870 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

When the Commonwealth Club offered to provide a public forum to discuss the
flood of illegal immigrants coming across the southern border, all citizens had
an opportunity to become fully informed on the subject. But as with most debates
that challenges Liberal ideology, the truth and logic becomes a victim to the
ideology.

Liberals can not engage in an honest debate. The typical battle plan is to
engage in a smear campaign by labeling opposition as racist. If the smear
campaign fails, the Liberals make a thinly veiled threat of violence. If the
opposition persists and the debate occurs, the Liberals stack the audience with
provocateurs committed to disrupting the debate. The proposed Commonwealth Club
forum passed through stages one and two but never reached the final stage. But
this is what passes for open dialog - Liberal style.

An issue to be discussed at the forum was the use of 'Minutemen' on the border.
But what do the Minutemen do that is so objectionable? Simple put, the Minutemen
provide additional eyes for the US Border Patrol. The Minutemen do not arrest,
detain, or harass the illegal immigrants. They just observe and report the
illegal entry to the Border Patrol. As a reminder, entering a sovereign country
without permission is - illegal. So by reporting illegal activity you might say
the Minutemen are like a Neighborhood Watch for the border.

What is controversial about opposing an illegal activity that costs Californians
billions every year in education, health care, and prison costs being ignored?

Don't look for a logical answer - Liberals don't admit that there is a
difference between legal and illegal immigration.

Jack Ward, Santa Cruz

Allowing the Minutemen to spew their rhetoric at the Mexican Heritage Plaza on
Mexican Independence Day would have been a true insult to all Mexican and
Chicano people who have fought for decades to win equality in this country. It
is very easy for those whose ancestors came to this country in earlier times,
under similar conditions, to accuse, blame and stereotype non-European
immigrants (whether legal or otherwise) as drug-traffickers, smugglers, etc.

The Bush Administration would rather attack and then rebuild Iraq at a cost of
billions of dollars and thousands of lives, instead of helping our brothers and
sisters to the south who face hunger and despair daily at the hands of their own
incompetent government. Let's face it; the immigration problem is a by-product
of greed on both sides of the border. The rich get richer by paying less in
wages, the middle class benefit by paying less for goods and the poor...are
ignored - until the rich raise their prices - then they're blamed.

Noe Yaocoatl Montoya, San Jose

As a member of the County's Human Relations Commission, I have extensive
experience in promoting constructive dialogue around controversial issues.
Furthermore, I strongly support the Mexican Heritage Plaza (MHP) in their
struggle to build community and become a regional center of art and learning.
However, the Mercury News is wrong when it accuses community leaders such as
Jaime Alvarado, of "suppressing debate" in the MHP/Minutemen controversy. Debate
is not suppressed when we insist that it be done responsibly and respectfully.
The proposed September 16 "Minutemen" debate was a case of the wrong group, in
the wrong place, at the wrong time. How is it respectful to bring a
representative of a provocative, border vigilante group to East San Jose on
Mexican Independence Day? According to your own editorial, the presence of the
Minutemen "terrifies Mexican immigrant communities. Terrify means "to fill with
terror", "menace", "deter" or "intimidate". This is not constructive debate. If
there is any bully in this situation, it is the Minutemen themselves.

Andrea Villasenor-Perry, MSW Member, SIREN Board of Directors, San Jose

Last May I worked with Jaime Alvarado on an Affordable Housing Week forum around
the issue of extremely low-income housing. He is a gentle, responsible, and
effective advocate for his largely poor and immigrant community. Bullying is not
part of his method of operation. If he opposed the Minuteman forum, I have no
doubt that it was because to do so was in the best interests of peace and
justice in the community around the Mexican Heritage Plaza.

Sandy Perry, Outreach Director, Community Homeless Alliance Ministry, San Jose

The aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the cancellation of the Minute Man forum
at the Mexican Heritage Plaza has left no doubt that racism is not dead in the
United States and San Jose. Racism remains alive and thrives thanks to the
bottomline and the proceeds to be gained by President Bush and his "compasionate
Christian" oil cronies on the right to our local latino business people. Our
country was built on the backs of imported slaves and cheap labor from south of
our borders. What better thanks to them but to leave them in the toilet bowl
that used to be New Orleans or to silence the debate of the vigilante effort to
stop the flow of those seeking a better life for themselves and their families.
I am disgusted by the blatant greed being exhibited in place of leadership by
those who have been elected and sworn to serve all of us.

Maggy Smith, San Jose

Why is it that those opposed to the Minuteman Project (Sept 11) use only
mischaracterizations and lies to criticize it. Don't they have any honest
arguments to offer?

The Mercury News editorial opposed them for their vigilante spirit. Does the
Mercury News also deplore Neighborhood Watch groups for the same reason?

Another View called them fear promoting paramilitaries and a hate group. Simply
carrying legal firearms does not equate to paramilitary and let's be honest,
who's really spreading the fear and hatred here?

In Letters they were referred to as genocidal but there is not a shred of
evidence to support this ludicrous claim.

Do these writers really believe their own propaganda? What are their real
reasons for such intense hatred of the Minuteman volunteers?

Rick Romanko, Sunnyvale

I am writing in regard to the September 2, 2005 article concerning, "When sexual
abuse shocks a community". I was outraged, ill and disgusted at the thought that
these things are going on in our communities. Parents enroll their children in
extracurricular activities to get them involved and to allow them to develop and
strengthen their social skills-not to have them subjected to such inappropriate
behavior. What can be done to keep things like this from continuing to occur?

I agree with the author when noted, "Parents must keep closely in touch with
their children, look for subtle changes in their behavior and be on the lookout
for inappropriate attention from other adults". I feel that many times we are
all overwhelmed in our daily lives that we forget to note the slightest changes
in children's behavior. Where were the parents during the Boy Scout trip? Even
worse, where were the other scout leaders? Are our children safe?

In regards to the high school soccer coach and his athletes, I am appalled. I
went to an all girls high school and I remember hearing rumors of teachers and
students but I never actually thought those things happened. It seems like all
the blame is on the teacher and while I believe that they should be dealt a very
harsh sentence I also believe that these women should have consequences. I also
feel that parents should be more involved. I feel that if parents paid more
attention to where their children go at night then may they will have more
control on inappropriate things happening.

I feel that there are two sides to this story: the teachers/coaches and the
parents. The coaches and teachers need to be watched more carefully and held
accountable for their actions. However, the parents also need to be more
involved in their children's lives to make sure that things like this don't
happen. I feel that with proper attention put towards teachers and coaches and
parents being more involved that we as a society can prevent more events like
this taking place in the future.

Jennifer Lazarus, Gilroy

What was the first thing that Palestinians did when they gained control of
territory in Gaza?. They set synagogues ablaze.

This is not surprising. Since the very beginning, hatred of Jews has been the
vital force animating Palestinian nationalism. In the 1920s, Haj Amin
El-Husseini, the Palestinian 'George Washington' orchestrated anti-Semitic riots
against Jews praying at the Western Wall, Judaism's holiest site. Husseini, an
admirer of Hitler, spent WWII as guest of the Nazis, broadcasting racist
propaganda and helping to organize Muslim SS units.

Today's Palestinian Authority follows in Husseini's bigoted footsteps,
inculcating in children the hatred of Jews and Americans and the love of Jihad
and suicide bombing. The desecration of Jewish holy places -- and the murder of
Jews -- is the inevitable result of this carefully nutured fanaticism.

Sam Cramer, Sunnyvale

I was in Anchorage, Alaska in March of 1964 when the Great Alaskan Earthquake,
with a 9.2 rating, violently shook the city for over five minutes causing great
destruction in Anchorage and almost totally destroying several coastal cities.
My experience with the Great Alaskan Earthquake made me aware of the need to be
prepared for a Great Californian Earthquake.

The recent Hurricane Katrina disaster in New Orleans taught me the following:

Each of us must make our own preparations for potential disasters. In New
Orleans the local, state, and federal governments were unable to help many
people for several days. In the trunks of both of our cars, we have knapsacks
filled with first aid kits, bottles of water, food, hand-crank radios and
flashlights, cash, work gloves, critical documents, sweaters, ponchos, knives,
candles, matches, and a roll of toilet paper. We have enough supplies in our
cars to care for our needs for at least 72 hours. We have enough food and water
stored in our home to last for several weeks, so we can share with others who
haven't prepared. Recently I read online, "Individual preparedness is the front
line of national preparedness." I believe that is true.

Each of us need to have in our billfolds or purses a one page personal medical
summary to help the doctors treating us if we are injured. On the page we should
include the medications we are taking and any medical problems we have. We
should also program our cell phones with an ICE (In case of emergency) contact
number.

All family members should memorize the phone number of a relative or friend who
lives in another state. If the family members get separated from each other they
can call the memorized number and report where they are. Such a system would
have saved many Hurricane Katrina victims 3/8 days of fear and worry when they
were trying to locate lost family members.

I hope the Katrina disaster will motivate all of us to prepare for the natural
disasters or the terrorist disasters we may face in the future.

Louise Cate, San Jose

The United States Government's military has updated a plan for the U.S. military
to use nuclear strikes to destroy "known" enemy stockpiles of nuclear, chemical
or biological weapons.

Are these the same folks who ran around, waving their arms chanting, "The sky is
falling, the sky is falling, weapons of mass destruction!!!" Only to get us
mired in Iraq, where NO weapons of mass destruction were ever found?

Why is the United States the ONLY country that can go around "nuking" people?

At the end of WWII we used atomic weapons on Japan. At the time a good decision,
I guess, I was seven years old at the time. More recently we've used nuclear
weapons, shells with a core of U238 that become "dirty bombs" when exploded, in
places like Bosnia and the Middle East. Now we want to employ "nuclear first
strikes" any time the Government wants to lie (or any time they can make us
believe) and tell everyone that "It's for your own good". You in the press may
buy into the program but I suggest everyone else get in touch with their
congress persons and bring this program to a halt. NOW! At least till there is
enough oversight to make sure that we REALLY KNOW what we're doing!

T. M. Hade, Santa Clara

I am writing in response to Brian Del Real's comments about the "Will of the
people."

Mr. Del Real refers to the election in 2000, in which the famed Prop 22 was
passed. While "the people" voted in favor of this proposition, I contend they
certainly didn't realize what they were voting for. What Mr. Del Real and
friends don't understand is that Prop 22 added Section 308.5 of the California
Family Code which dealt with foreign (meaning out-of-state) gay marriages not
being recognized in California. What was amended by our legislature last week
was section 300 of the California Family Code. This was fully within the rights
of the legislature to amend, since they wrote and approved section 300 in the
first place.

In the words of Thomas Jefferson, "All men are created equal." These words come
from the Declaration of Independence. They do not mean that all people are
alike, because we know that everyone is unique; but the words do tell us an
important message: That all people are born with equal rights.

Maybe Mr. Del Real needs to spruce up on his knowledge of the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution of these United States and understand that
homosexual men and women have just as much right to marry as heterosexuals.

Drew Lloyd, Santa Clara

In June 1963 Governor George Wallace stood before the doors of the University of
Alabama to dramatize his pledge that no black person would ever enter this
all-white university. Had he chosen instead to make an eloquent speech about
fairness, justice, and equal protection under the law in a democracy, and
implored his constituency to end the unjustifiable practice of discrimination by
race, he would have gone down as one of the great leaders in American history.
Instead, he chose to pander to the prejudices of his time, thereby relegating
himself to barely a footnote in the history books.

Today Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger faces the same choice. The passage of the
gay marriage bill by the California Legislature was a historic first in the
struggle for fairness, justice, and equal protection under the law in a
democracy. If the governor chooses to support and sign this bill, imploring his
constituency to end the unjustifiable practice of discrimination by sexual
orientation, he will achieve a well-deserved position as one of our nation's
great leaders. Unfortunately, he has indicated that he prefers to pander to the
prejudices of his time, thereby relegating himself to barely a footnote in the
history books. There is still time for him to change his mind.

Burt and Marjorie Liebert, Palo Alto

President Bush has suspended the Davis-Bacon law, which requires federal
contractors to pay its workers at least the prevailing wage on construction
projects, for areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Time and again the
Republicans have tried to undermine Davis-Bacon, but couldn't muster the votes.
Now, as with the odious Patriot Act, they exploit a national tragedy to further
their Kiss Up, Kick Down agenda. When Americans see on the nightly news how
poverty impaired thousands of people's ability to flee the storm, many of us are
questioning the part that race and class have played in this disaster.It's time
to stop heaping riches on contractors friendly to this administrations, and
raise the minimum wage; this is the first step in shrinking the growing gap
between rich and poor which endangers our democracy and dishonours our ideals.
Shame, shame on them for this opportunistic assault on our most vulnerable
citizens.

Susan Warren, Gilroy

Imagine how those in the 91,000 member local workforce who aren't lucky or
wealthy enough to afford a home in Palo Alto reacted to the title, "SOME PALO
ALTANS WORRY THERE'S TOO MUCH HOUSING". I'm referring to those who can't even
afford a "starter home", as developer John McNellis described it, "...even if it
costs a million and change."

Imagine if those living in Palo Alto during the boom, post-war years reacted the
same way to proposed new housing in the City as today's housing opponents do.

Could this be a case of "pulling up the drawbridge after you've entered",
thereby not letting anyone else in, even your own children when it's time for
them to find a home?

Noone is suggesting that the impacts of new housing, especially those placed
upon schools, transportation, and other vital infrastructure not be considered
and addressed. But with the state's population expected to continue growing at
500,000 - 600,00 a year, and Palo Alto, with it's enormous imbalance in jobs to
housing, shouldn't the City be EXPECTED to make up for its huge job growth in
the 1970s by increasing its housing stock now, thereby doing its share of
lessening the sprawl impact of Silicon Valley on the Central Valley and other
ex-urban areas?

Irvin Dawid, Sustainable Land Use committee/Chair Sierra Club, Loma Prieta
chapter, Palo Alto

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 20, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Undocumented immigrants detained;
SEVERAL HURRICANE KATRINA EVACUEES, URGED TO SEEK HELP AT SHELTERS, COULD BE
DEPORTED

BYLINE: By Suzanne Gamboa; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


After heeding the Bush administration's call to seek help regardless of status,
a handful of illegal immigrants who fled Hurricane Katrina have been ordered to
appear for deportation hearings.

Three undocumented immigrants were met by immigration agents at the El Paso
airport when they were flown in from the Gulf Coast along with other evacuees,
said Leticia Zamarripa, Immigration and Custom Enforcement spokeswoman in El
Paso. A fourth person, a permanent legal resident, was questioned and released,
she said.

The immigrants went through background checks and fingerprinting and were
released with orders to appear for deportation hearings, Zamarripa said. They
were allowed to go to other shelters in Texas, said Ouisa Davis, an attorney for
one of the immigrants. She did not have details, including the date of the
initial questioning.

In another instance, state troopers in West Virginia called in immigration
agents Sept. 4 when a woman alleged that she was sexually assaulted by another
passenger on a bus carrying evacuees to Camp Dawson, ICE spokesman Dean Boyd
said Monday.

The accused passenger and a companion, both from Central America, were taken
into custody, Boyd said. When ICE officials interviewed the woman, she refused
to press charges or testify. The accused immigrant denied her allegations. He
and his companion remained in custody.

In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the Homeland Security Department
encouraged all storm victims, including illegal immigrants, to seek help. The
appeal was made in English and Spanish.

The agency stopped short of assuring that information about immigration status
would not be shared with law enforcement agencies -- a protection that was
extended after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. Senate Democrats have been
pressing for such protection.

In the days after the hurricane, Mexican President Vicente Fox made a televised
appeal, in English and Spanish, urging Mexican nationals affected by the storm
to seek help. He said U.S. authorities had assured his government that ''those
who were not documented at the time will not be subject to any pressure or
persecution whatsoever.''

The law enforcement actions have left at least one group concerned about lending
its influence to the federal government's efforts to reach immigrants affected
by the storm.

The White House was ''actively communicating to us and the Spanish-language
press that everyone could come forward,'' said Cecilia Munoz, vice president of
policy for the National Council of La Raza, the largest U.S.-based Latino
advocacy group.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    September 28, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Illegal immigration is increasing again;
POST-SEPT. 11 SLOWDOWN ERODING, SAYS CENTER

BYLINE: By Stephen Ohlemacher; Associated Press

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants are increasing despite tighter border security and now
outnumber foreigners moving to the United States legally.

Total immigrants to the United States declined after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, partly because of increased security measures, the Pew
Hispanic Center reported Tuesday. The 2001 recession also was a likely factor,
reducing jobs available in the United States.

Now the number coming to the country is on the upswing again.

Immigration -- both legal and illegal -- topped 1.5 million people in 1999 and
2000, according to the report. The number of people entering the United States
then plummeted to 1.1 million people by 2003, the same level as in 1992.

Increase in '04

Immigration bounced back to 1.2 million in 2004, but the report cautioned that
it is difficult to say whether the recent upswing is part of a new trend.

''The extremely high (immigration) flows at the end of the past decade were not
the norm, nor part of a long-term trend, but rather the peak of a momentary
increase that lasted for only a few years,'' said the report, by demographer
Jeffrey Passel and Roberto Suro, a former journalist who is director of the Pew
Hispanic Center.

The report documents immigration levels from 1992 to 2004, generating estimates
from a variety of census data.

The Pew Hispanic Center is a non-partisan research organization supported by the
Pew Charitable Trusts.

Border security gained national attention last month after the governors of two
states, Arizona and New Mexico, declared states of emergency on their borders
with Mexico. The governors cited security shortcomings by the federal
government.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said at the time that he had
already ordered a review of border security strategy.

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, in a visit to Mexico last week, said he
supported citizen border patrols but is opposed to them being armed.

Call for reform

''The Pew report is yet another indicator that the immigration system is
broken,'' said a statement by John Cornyn, chairman of the Senate Judiciary
subcommittee on immigration and border security. ''Immigration reform must be
comprehensive and address both enforcement and improved avenues for legal
immigration.''

The Texas Republican has co-authored a bill that would create a temporary worker
visa, as well as a mandatory system for employers to check on the immigration
status of prospective employees.

The Pew report said immigration levels closely mirror economic conditions in the
United States -- as the economy improves, immigration increases -- suggesting
that the lure of jobs is a strong factor in attracting people to this country.

The U.S. economy appears to be a stronger factor than economic conditions in the
countries sending immigrants here, the report said.

''The U.S. economy was obviously a very important factor in determining these
flows,'' said Suro.

Among the report's findings:



 Since 2001, the number of legal permanent residents entering the United States
has declined from 578,000 to 455,000, while the number of illegal immigrants has
increased from 549,000 to 562,000. Legal, temporary residents account for the
remainder of people entering the country.

''We've seen a fairly steady growth in the number of undocumented immigrants
living here, and this data shows very sizable numbers coming in,'' Passel said.
''We're clearly not stopping them at the border.''

Declines in legal immigration ''appear to reflect processing backlogs, security
delays and other developments that followed the Sept. 11 attacks,'' the report
said.



 Mexico accounted for about a third of all U.S. immigrants, a percentage that
was steady from 1992 to 2004. Other Latin American countries accounted for about
20 percent of all immigrants, Asia accounted for a little more than a quarter,
and Europe and Canada combined to account for about 14 percent.



 More immigrants are shunning states with large immigrant communities, such as
New York and California, and moving to states with smaller foreign-born
populations, such as North Carolina and Iowa.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 7, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. METHOD OF COUNTING IMMIGRANT DEATHS BLASTED;
ACTIVISTS AT ODDS WITH BORDER PATROL OVER MEXICAN TOLL

BYLINE: ANDREA ALMOND, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 765 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Flying low over the Sonora Desert, Border Patrol agents spotted a skeleton
sprawled in the brush.

The harsh terrain just inside Arizona is a busy trafficking corridor for illegal
immigrants; the person could have died while trying to sneak into the United
States. But busy Interstate 8 runs nearby -- the person could have beena slain
U.S. citizen, a suicide, a runaway.

The Border Patrol is grappling with just how to count the dead found along the
2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border. "It's rarely a cut-and-dried decision," said Joe
Brigman of the Yuma Border Patrol office. "In some cases, you just don't know."

Clues and documents found on the body east of Yuma let agents conclude that the
victim was indeed an immigrant -- among 325 the Border Patrol counted in the
fiscal year which ended Sept. 30, down from 340 the year before.

The agency says its increased vigilance has helped reduce deaths among illegal
immigrants.

Human rights activists say it's in the government's interest to keep that number
low. They contend that the agency tries to shave its count by excluding many
skeletal remains, car-accident victims and bodies discovered by local law
enforcement agencies.

Claudia Smith, a San Diego attorney with the California Rural Legal Assistance
Foundation, says the ad hoc counting methods lack consistency from one
government agency to the next.

For instance, in Arizona, the busiest stretch for illegal entries, migrants died
in record numbers for the third straight year in fiscal 2004. The Border Patrol
reported 177 deaths, the highest death toll ever for a single state. But medical
examiner's offices in Arizona put the toll even higher -- about 221 deaths.

Andy Adame of the Tucson Border Patrol sector said local law enforcement
agencies do not always notify the Border Patrol when they handle the death of a
possible illegal immigrant.

Activists also blame the lack of a consistent tabulation strategy for the Border
Patrol, which has 11,141 agents nationwide. Agents in Tucson, for instance, say
they do not count the deaths of smugglers or guides.

"We count someone who is furthering their entry into the United States," Adame
said in a telephone interview. "And we feel smugglers and guides are just going
back and forth, so they aren't counted."

Border Patrol officials in Washington, D.C., however, say it has been standard
policy to include smugglers since 1998, when the tracking began.

Last summer, the agency was embarrassed when the death toll increased despite
high-profile efforts that included building rescue beacons in remote areas and
launching an international campaign warning of the dangers of crossing through
harsh terrain and dealing with smugglers.

This year, the U.S. government spent $13 million to fly deported immigrants into
the Mexican interior in hopes of deterring them from another crossing.

Smith, who has tracked migrant deaths for 10 years, wrote to Customs and Border
Protection Commissioner Robert Bonner in June, protesting the methodology that
allows "dozens of migrant deaths a year to go uncounted by the bureau."

She points to one notorious 2003 case -- the deaths of 19 people found in a
sweltering truck trailer near Victoria, Texas. It was the deadliest
immigrant-smuggling attempt in the United States in more than 15 years, but the
numbers were not included in Border Patrol statistics, officials say, because
they were found too far from the border.

The agency's count typically includes only people found in 43 U.S. counties that
are within a 100-mile-wide belt along the border with Mexico.

That method also excluded 11 people whose bodies were found in October 2002 in a
sealed rail car in Denison, Iowa, and three bodies found in a rail car near
Baytown, Texas, in July 2003.

"The American people have the right to know the human cost, the real human cost,
of these policies," Smith says.

Border Patrol officials bristle at the allegation they are undercounting deaths.

"We are very interested in knowing about any death discovered along the border,"
said Mario Villareal, a Washington-based official for Customs and Border
Protection. "But every death at the border shouldn't be assumed to be a migrant
death."

If bodies of suspected migrants are found far inside U.S. territory, agents will
probably record them internally but not in the official death toll, he said.

The agency also counts deaths only of migrants found on the U.S. side ofthe
border. On the other hand, Mexico tracks fatalities on either side of the line,
but only those of Mexican nationals.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DENIS POROY -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Marchers carry a mock coffin along a section of the U.S.-Mexico border fence in
Tijuana, Mexico, last month in protest of the U.S. enforcement program Operation
Gatekeeper, which began in 1994.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 1, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JANITORS' WAL-MART SUIT MAY BE EXPANDED

BYLINE: From the Associated Press, Dow Jones and Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 138 words


A federal judge has opened the door to a possible expansion of a lawsuit against
Wal-Mart filed by illegal immigrant janitors who claim the retail giant violated
labor laws.

U.S. District Court Judge Joseph A. Greenaway Jr. on Wednesday denied a motion
by Wal-Mart Stores to dismiss the suit, instead approving the sending of
court-approved notices to potential plaintiffs.

The court found merit in the claim that illegal immigrant workers have
minimum-wage and overtime-pay rights under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act,
said Gilberto Garcia, an Englewood Cliffs, N.J., attorney who is part of a legal
team representing more than 200 janitors who worked for contractors serving
Wal-Mart.

"This is a historic lawsuit, as far as immigration laws are concerned, as far as
labor laws are concerned," Garcia said.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Business Briefing
National News

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL COULD END IMPASSE OVER U.S.-MEXICO FENCE

BYLINE: ERICA WERNER, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A ragged fence and a canyon called Smugglers Gulch mark the westernmost stretch
of the California-Mexico border, a favorite crossing point for illegal
immigrants and drug runners.

The federal government and a powerful Republican congressman have been pushing
for years to fortify the 3 1/2-mile stretch of border just north of Tijuana,
Mexico. Their plan is opposed by state coastal regulators and environmentalists
who say it could harm a fragile Pacific estuary.

Now supporters may be getting closer to victory. A provision in an immigration
bill expected to pass the House this week would give the homeland security
secretary authority to move forward with the project regardless of any laws that
stand in the way, and would bar courts from hearing lawsuits against it.

"We need to do it for security reasons, and at some point we just need to do
it," said Rep. Duncan Hunter, R-El Cajon, the House Armed Services Committee
chairman, whose district is just north of the border.

But environmentalists and the California Coastal Commission, the agency that
regulates the state's coastline, say the plan promoted by U.S. Customs and
Border Protection is too extreme.

Among other provisions, it would level the peaks lining Smugglers Gulch and fill
part of the deep canyon with 2 million cubic yards of dirt to build a road
across it. The Coastal Commission voted down the proposal a year ago, saying it
would erode soil near the federally protected Tijuana Estuary that is home to
marshes, California brown pelicans and rare plants and birds.

"We're going to destroy our environment in the name of fear," said Peter
Douglas, the commission's executive director. "There are ways that we can do
both, protecting the environment and meeting the concerns of border control and
homeland security."

Coastal Commission officials said Customs and Border Protection did not meet
them halfway on proposed alternatives, including switchback roads through the
gulch.

But Hunter said environmentalists' demands were unreasonable.

Rep. Bob Filner, D-Chula Vista, whose district encompasses the border,
disagreed.

"The waiving of all environmental rules for this is just criminal," Filner said.
"It's just too extensive a trade-off."

The provision to finish the border barriers is part of immigration legislation
introduced last month by House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., that would also prevent illegal immigrants from getting driver's
licenses and make political asylum more difficult.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 22, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VOLUNTEERS TAKE ON BORDER PATROL TASK;
U.S. OFFICIALS WORRY ABOUT 'MINUTEMEN'

BYLINE: LARA JAKES JORDAN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Intent on securing the vulnerable Arizona border from illegal immigrant
crossings, U.S. officials are bracing for what they call a potential new threat
this spring: the Minutemen.

Nearly 500 volunteers already have joined the Minuteman Project, anointing
themselves civilian border patrol agents determined to stop the immigration flow
that routinely, and easily, seeps past federal authorities. They plan to patrol
a 40-mile stretch of the southeast Arizona border throughout April when the tide
of immigrants crossing the U.S.-Mexico border peaks.

"I felt the only way to get something done was to do it yourself," said Jim
Gilchrist, a retired accountant and decorated Vietnam War veteran who is helping
recruit Minutemen across the country.

"We've been repeatedly accused of being people who are taking the law into our
own hands," said Gilchrist, 56, of Aliso Viejo. "That is an outright bogus
statement. We are going down there to assist law enforcement."

Officials concede the 370-mile Arizona border is the most porous stretch on the
U.S.-Mexico line. Moreover, recent intelligence shows that Al-Qaida terrorists
are likely to enter the country through the Mexico border, James Loy, the deputy
secretary of the Homeland Security Department, said last week.

Of the 1.1 million illegal immigrants caught by the U.S. Border Patrol last
year, 51 percent crossed into the country at the Arizona border. The agency
increased the number of agents in the Tucson sector, which has its largest
staff, from 1,700 to 2,100 over the past 18 months.

But that number is going to grow to try to plug the remaining holes, said
Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert Bonner. About 10,000 federal
agents now patrol the 2,000-mile southern border, he said.

Officials fear the Minuteman patrols could cause more trouble than they prevent.
At least some of the volunteers plan to arm themselves during the 24-hour desert
patrols. Many are untrained and have little or no experience in confronting
illegal border crossings.

"Any time there are firearms and you're out in the middle of no-man's land in
difficult terrain, it's a dangerous setting," said Bonner, whose agency is
keeping a close eye on the Minutemen plans.

Civilian patrols are nothing new along the southern border, where crossing the
international line is sometimes as easy as stepping over a few rusty strands of
barbed wire. But they usually are limited to small, informal groups, leaving
organizers to believe the Minuteman Project is the largest of its kind on the
southern border.

It also may prove to be a magnet for what Glenn Spencer, president of the
private American Border Patrol, described as camouflage-wearing, weapons-toting
hard-liners who might get a little carried away with their assignments.

"How are they going to keep the nut cases out of there? They can't control
that," said Spencer, whose 40-volunteer group, based in Hereford, Ariz., has
used pilotless aerial vehicles and other high-tech equipment to track and report
the number of border crossings for more than two years.

Gilchrist said the Minutemen are under strict orders to merely identify and
follow illegal border crossers and alert federal agents. They should not
interact with the immigrants except to offer food, water or medical care. If
there are a couple of "bad apples" who turn up in the group, Gilchrist said,
they will face prosecution if they step outside the law.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
Robert Bonner, Customs and Border Protection commissioner, is skeptical of
volunteer border patrollers operating in Arizona.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 4, 2005 Friday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

POLL: 62% OPPOSE DRIVER'S LICENSE BILL;
IMMIGRANT SUPPORTERS FACE STRONG DISAPPROVAL IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 774 words


A contentious measure being pushed in the Legislature to allow undocumented
immigrants to apply for driver's licenses is opposed by more than six in 10
Californians, according to a Field Poll released today.

Sixty-two percent of those surveyed disapprove of the measure, while 35 percent
are in favor.

The poll also showed a deep split between Latinos and non-Latinos: Three out of
four non-Hispanic whites are opposed to the licenses, while nearly two in three
Latinos are in favor; the vast majority of undocumented immigrants are from
Mexico.

The bill's author, Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, expressed confidence that
the negative opinion wouldn't thwart his measure, which he's persistently
promoted for seven years. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is opposed.

"This bill has never been popular, and this isn't a popularity contest," Cedillo
said. "We would like to see the governor work with us and join us in addressing
the issue of safety and security for all Californians."

Cedillo and his allies contend the state's roads would be safer if the estimated
2 million undocumented motorists who are currently driving were trained and
insured. They believe formal licensing would help public safety.

Opponents say the state shouldn't be in the business of giving a legal document
to those who don't have permission to be in the country.

"Issuing valid state identification documents to illegal immigrants," said state
Sen. Tom McClintock, R-Thousand Oaks, "undermines enforcement of our immigration
laws." McClintock is vice chairman of the Senate Transportation and Housing
Committee, where Cedillo's measure, SB 60, is scheduled to be heard March 15.

A total of 506 California adults were interviewed from Feb. 8 to Feb. 17 for the
poll, which has a sampling error of plus or minus 4.1 percent.

Other than non-Hispanic whites and Latinos, the poll merged all other ethnic
groups into a single category. That group opposed the license bill by 77
percent, while 23 percent supported it.

The survey was the first time the Field Poll, established in 1947, dedicated an
entire survey to driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.

The question of whether undocumented immigrants should be allowed to have
driver's licenses was asked in a gubernatorial recall election Field Poll in
2003. Back then, 59 percent were against the license.

"The opposition continues," said Mark DiCamillo, director of the independent
polling firm. "The public is leery of giving a driver's license to undocumented
immigrants."

Those immigrants were allowed to seek licenses until 1994, when a law signed by
then Gov. Pete Wilson forced all applicants to provide proof of legal residence
to the Department of Motor Vehicles.

A movement to overturn the law suffered a setback after the terrorist attacks of
2001, when it was learned that hijackers, whose immigration visas had expired,
boarded airplanes using driver's licenses, some of which were obtained
illegally.

Leaders of immigrant rights groups in the Bay Area, such as SIREN of San Jose,
said the latest poll results show they have much work to do in educating the
public.

"This will be a bigger challenge for us," said Jose Sandoval, head of
Voluntarios de la Comunidad, a San Jose group that has gathered more than
600,000 signatures, mostly from Latinos who favor the license bill.

But those opposed said the poll results should send a message to Cedillo: Stop
proposing the measure.

"He's dividing California every time he makes this proposal," said Mike Spence,
whose California Republican Assembly last month failed to gather enough
signatures to put an anti-license measure on the state ballot. Spence said
Cedillo is "trying to shove a proposal that's unpopular down the throats of
Californians, and that's divisive."

The Field Poll released today also asked whether the public would support
licenses with a special marking to indicate the holder was an illegal immigrant.
Respondents were split -- with 49 percent in favor, and 48 percent opposed.

Schwarzenegger favors marked licenses, but Cedillo has refused to include the
provision in his bill.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
STRONG OPPOSITION TO LICENSES FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
By a large margin, Californians oppose giving driver's licenses to immigrants
living in the country illegally.
Oppose  strongly 48%
Oppose somewhat  14%
Favor  strongly  26%
Favor  somewhat   9%
No opinion        3%
Source: Field Poll of 506 California adults, conducted Feb. 8-17; margin of
error is plus or minus 4.1 percentage points

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Shorter Version: page 1C Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 22, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT NUMBERS SOAR;
U.S. IS NOW HOME TO 10.3 MILLION UNDOCUMENTED FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 605 words


The number of undocumented immigrants in the United States grew by almost 23
percent in the past four years to 10.3 million, and more than half are from
Mexico, according to a national report released Monday.

California is home to almost one-fourth of the nation's undocumented immigrants,
the greatest concentration in all U.S. states.

That share, however, has declined significantly from 1990 when almost half, or
45 percent, of all undocumented immigrants in the United States were in
California.

The report from the Pew Hispanic Center, an immigration research organization in
Washington, D.C., also estimated that about one in six of undocumented
immigrants is a child under 18.

According to the Pew report the decline of the undocumented proportion in
California has meant significant growth in other states, signaling a trend that
researchers have observed for years.

"It's the phenomenon of dispersal and it's quite powerful in some states," said
Roberto Suro, executive director of the Pew Hispanic Center.

Arizona and North Carolina now have some of the country's highest numbers of
undocumented immigrants, according to estimates by Jeffrey S. Passel, a senior
research associate for Pew, who used 2004 Current Population Survey data from
the U.S. Census Bureau.

In 1990, less than half a million undocumented immigrants lived outside of
California and five other states -- New York, Texas, Illinois, Florida and New
Jersey -- where they were traditionally concentrated. But according to Passel's
estimates, in 2004, 3.9 million undocumented persons were in states "where
previously the foreign-born had been in relatively small presence."

"This is affecting the lives of Americans in all parts of the country and we're
going to have to enforce our immigration laws," said Ira Mehlman, Los Angeles
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), a national
group that opposes amnesty to undocumented immigrants and advocates for tighter
border controls.

The United States should continue to bolster its borders to control illegal
immigration and as a matter of national security, and crack down on employers
who hire undocumented immigrants, Mehlman said.

Immigrant advocates who favor legalization said the steady growth of the
undocumented population underscores the federal government's failed efforts to
tighten border controls.

"We're all in agreement that immigration is a broken system," said Angela
Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a national
advocacygroup in Washington, D.C. "The big question is: How do we fix it?"

Kelly favors a system that will allow undocumented immigrants to legalize their
status.

"It's hard to count the uncountable," said Mark Silverman, director of
immigration policy for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center, a non-profit San
Francisco group that provides free legal help to immigrants.

"That's why we need a program to bring people out of the shadows," he said.

Where undocumented immigrants live
Top states:
1. Calif. 2.4 million
2. Texas 1.4 million
3. Fla. 850,000
4. N.Y. 650,000
5. Ariz. 500,000
6. Ill. 400,000
7. N.J. 350,000
8. N.C. 300,000

CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER
Status of all immigrants
Legal permanent residents: 61%
Undocumented: 29%
Refugees: 7%
Temporary legal residents: 3%
Source: Pew Hispanic Center
CHART: KNIGHT RIDDER
Where the undocumented come from:
10.3 million in 2004
Mexico: 57%
Other Latin American countries: 24%
Asia: 9%
Europe, Canada: 6%
Africa, other: 4%
Source: Pew Hispanic Center

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408)
920-5794.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map, Charts (2);
MAP: KNIGHT RIDDER
Where undocumented immigrants live
PHOTO: NURI VALLBONA -- KNIGHT RIDDER ARCHIVES
A U.S. agent patrols a remote stretch of the Texas-Mexico border outside of El
Paso where numerous people try to enter the country illegally.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 8, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER VOLUNTEERS DETAIN IMMIGRANT FOR VIDEO

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: ARIZONA


Authorities determined Thursday three volunteers involved in the Minuteman
Project -- a civilian effort to watch the U.S.-Mexico border and report illegal
crossers -- had an illegal immigrant pose for a flippant photo but did not hold
him against his will.

The Mexican man had told sheriff's deputies he was detained and forced to pose
for a picture holding a T-shirt with a mocking slogan. A review of a 15-minute
videotape provided by Bryan Barton, one of the three volunteers, showed the
T-shirt the man was holding read: "Bryan Barton caught an illegal alien and all
I got was this lousy T-shirt." Barton was wearing an identical shirt.

An investigation by the Cochise County Sheriff's Department determined there was
"no forcible detention" and no charges were filed against the volunteers.

The immigrant was later picked up by the Border Patrol, and remains in custody.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 13, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

IMMIGRATION HOTLINE REPORTS BIG LEAP IN CALLS;
CRITICS FEAR IT WILL BE USED FOR RACIAL STEREOTYPING

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 884 words


The number of calls to a national immigration and customs hotline -- including
tips turning in illegal immigrants -- has skyrocketed in the past six months,
according to officials of the Department of Homeland Security.

Assistant Secretary Michael J. Garcia lauded the record growth of the hotline
operated by his agency.

"Alert citizens, using the . . . tip line, are making significant contributions
to homeland security," Garcia said in a statement Tuesday.

But the growing popularity of the government hotline, (866) 347-2423, has
immigrants and their advocates worried about racial stereotyping and targeting
of immigrant communities. It comes in the wake of a controversial gathering of
civilians who call themselves "Minutemen," intent on patrolling the U.S.-Mexico
border in Arizona to hunt down illegal immigrants. President George W. Bush has
called them vigilantes.

"It promotes hysteria," said Bill Ong Hing, professor of law and Asian-American
studies at the University of California-Los Angeles, of the hotline. "It's not a
healthy society when you encourage this kind of vigilante mentality."

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement hotline started as a pilot program
in 2003 in Arizona, to allow the public to report incidents of sexual
exploitation and child abuse. Called Operation Predator then, the hotline has
grown since to include tips about a broad range of crimes involving U.S.
immigration and customs laws.

In fiscal year 2004, from October 2003 through September 2004, there were 27,671
calls to the hotline. In the past six months, the new fiscal year, there were
41,500 calls.

On a given day, the hotline will receive tips about human smuggling, drug
smuggling, identity theft, a corporation hiring undocumented immigrants and
immigrants who have been deported and have returned to the United States, said
spokesman Michael W. Gilhooly.

At the Law Enforcement Support Center in Williston, Vt., 260 employees take
reports from citizens across the United States on a variety of crimes. The
center operates every day, around the clock.

One such tip in October led to the arrest in San Francisco of a New Zealand man
accused of child abuse, incest and sexual abuse, Gilhooly said. The man had an
expired visa, and he faces deportation. Gilhooly declined to give details about
the case, saying it's still under investigation.

In another case last year, in Milwaukee, agents rescued an immigrant who had
been working as a couple's domestic servant. The couple was charged with human
trafficking.

Unnamed callers

Callers to the hotline don't have to give their names, but their report is
recorded. The agent taking the call collects as much detail as possible, and the
report is checked against immigration and crime data banks, according to Scott
Blackman, unit chief of the Vermont center.

Agents then forward the information to local Immigration and Customs Enforcement
offices. In some cases where urgent action is required, ICE will contact local
law enforcement agencies.

Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for ICE in Laguna Niguel, said the hotline is not
primarily intended for reporting minor immigration violations or illegal
immigrants.

"We'll take those calls and follow up, but our priority is to identify
individuals who pose a threat to national security or public safety," she said.

Publicity fuels calls

Kice attributed the growth of calls to community outreach and increased
publicity. The hotline is publicized on the Immigration and CustomsEnforcement
Web site and in talks to community groups.

She could not give a breakdown of the tips geographically or by type of crime.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
Washington group that lobbies for immigration controls and enforcement, said the
government "has done a terrible job" of allowing the public to report illegal
immigrants. The surge in calls to the hotline suggests that there is public
demand, he said.

"It's the same as the Minuteman Project," Krikorian said. The strong response
from the public "shows the government is not doing its job," he said.

Stereotyping feared

Immigrants and their advocates in the Bay Area are concerned that the hotline
fuels racial stereotypes.

Maria Marroquin, an immigrant from Mexico who works with day laborers in
Mountain View, said she didn't know such a hotline existed.

And its growing use by the public, she said, is "a sign of scary times for
immigrants."

"Anti-immigrant sentiment ebbs and flows, and right now we're at a time it's
increasing," said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network, a San Jose non-profit group.

Said Casillas, "I wonder how many of these calls are being fueled by
anti-immigrant sentiments or xenophobia?"

HOTLINE NUMBERS
The public can report tips on illegal immigrants as well as crimes ranging from
sexual predators to human trafficking and drug smuggling. Number of calls made
to (866) DHS-2ICE, or (866) 347-2423, the national hotline operated by the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement:

27,671 calls from Oct. 1, 2003, through Sept. 30, 2004

41,500 calls from Oct. 1, 2004, through March 31, 2005

Source: Department of Homeland Security; U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TIPS ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS POURING IN, AGENCY SAYS

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2005

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 04/15/05, pg. 2A)
A front-page article Wednesday about a government immigration hotline misstated
the university where Bill Ong Hing is a law professor. He teaches at the
University of California-Davis.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
An immigrant caught crossing illegally in Arizona awaits transportation back to
Mexico. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement hotline started as a pilot
program in 2003 in Arizona, to allow the public to report incidents of sexual
exploitation and child abuse. The hotline has grown since to include tips about
a broad range of crimes involving U.S. immigration and customs laws.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 18, 2005 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

80 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FOUND DURING DRUG BUST

BYLINE: From the Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: MADERA


Narcotics officers searching the home of an alleged methamphetamine dealer in
Madera found 80 undocumented Mexican immigrants, police said.

The immigrants were packed into the 1,500-square-foot home of Jose Esparza, 38,
police said. Officers were searching Esparza's house Friday after arresting him
for allegedly trying to sell methamphetamine to an undercover officer.

The building appeared to be a temporary "stash house" for smuggled immigrants
awaiting transportation to cities throughout the country, police said.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 21, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER WATCH;
LEAKY FRONTIERS A NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERN
ACTIVIST CAMPAIGNS AND TERRORISM CONCERNS GIVE ILLEGAL-IMMIGRATION ISSUE FRESH
URGENCY

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1391 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


On a November night in 1989, San Diego County resident Muriel Watson drove her
white Buick to the Mexican border and joined 22 other motorists in shining their
headlights into the darkness as a highly visible statement against illegal
immigration.

Although her initiative, known as "Light up the Border," grew dramatically over
the next year, the participants were mostly local. Concern about illegal
immigration back then was largely limited to California, where nearly half of
all undocumented Latinos made their homes.

"I made many lobbying trips into Washington and talked to many congressmen from
many states . . . and their eyes would glaze over," Watson recalled. "There was
just a blanket ignorance."

Not any more.

Another volunteer effort this spring also is trying to deter Mexicans from
illegally crossing into the United States, and this time it's drawing worldwide
attention.

About 777 volunteers with the controversial Minuteman Project patrolled the
Arizona border between April 4 and Wednesday, when the volunteers shifted to
another civilian border-patrol group and organizers turned their focus to
lobbying Washington. The turnout was far below initial estimates of 2,000, but
still more than Watson drew in her first outing. Volunteers have traveled to the
Arizona desert from at least 48 states, demonstrating that illegal immigration
is not just a California issue any more.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, the leaky Mexican border has become a national
security concern, with fears that terrorists will sneak in along with Latinos
looking for higher-paying jobs.

And an increasing number of people nationwide are seeing firsthand evidence that
the border is not secure. Changes in how the border is patrolled since the
mid-1990s have shifted much of the illegal immigration away from California and
led to new Latino communities in places like Iowa, Georgia and North Carolina.
So the issue that sparked California's divisive 1994 battle over Proposition 187
and its attempts to cut off public services for illegal immigrants has been
transformed into a national one that could erupt soon in Congress.

Sides far apart

The politically volatile debate pits a growing number of politicians who want to
halt illegal immigration mainly with stronger border enforcement and
deportations, against those who want a comprehensive plan that would allow more
immigrants to stay in the United States as legal guest workers or eventually as
new U.S. citizens.

While both sides are far apart on a solution, they do agree on one thing: The
Minuteman Project is a signal that something needs to be done.

"These are people who are very frustrated," said Michele Waslin, director of
immigration-policy research for the National Council of La Raza, a Latino
advocacy group. "They have a very different vision of immigration reform than I
do. . . . But the whole thing indicates we need to reform the system in a real
way."

Minuteman volunteers such as Grey Deacon, 61, a retired businessman from near
Everett, Wash., said the federal government hasn't been doing enough to keep the
Mexican border secure, allowing a flood of illegal immigrants that is straining
public hospitals and schools nationwide.

"Everywhere you look in western Washington the effects of illegals is
tremendous," Deacon said in a telephone interview from Tombstone, Ariz. "This is
an invasion, my friend. I'm not being paranoid."

The Pew Hispanic Center released a report last month estimating that the
illegal-immigrant population has grown rapidly over the past decade, reaching
approximately 11 million in March 2004. Undocumented Mexicans account for 57
percent.

Immigration experts said increased U.S. Border Patrol enforcement at popular
illegal crossing spots such as the San Ysidro corridor near San Diego beginning
in the mid-1990s forced immigrants into the more treacherous terrain of the
Arizona desert. Far from major highways on either side of the border, smugglers
known as "coyotes" became vital to successfully crossing into the United States,
said Louis DeSipio, an associate professor of Chicano/Latino studies at the
University of California-Irvine.

Once across, the coyotes often arranged jobs in other parts of the country --
meatpacking in Iowa, for example, or construction in north Georgia -- where
immigrants were forced to work to repay the smuggling costs. Latino communities
began springing up in areas that had never had them before, becoming a draw to
new arrivals from Mexico.

But the new immigrants haven't always been welcome. And the Sept. 11 attacks
have added to the anxiety about America's borders. Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo.,
has been advocating a tougher crackdown on illegal immigration since he was
first elected in 1998. Before the 2001 attacks, he had 16 people in his
Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus. After the attacks, it nearly quadrupled
to 60. Now it's at 80.

"Even talking about it before 9/11, you found yourself being called allkinds of
names," Tancredo said of illegal immigration. "After 9/11 . . . we find that
everybody can feel comfortable in talking about it as an issue because it is
part of national security."

Terrorism concerns were cited by supporters of legislation passed by the House
of Representatives earlier this year, the Real ID Act, which would effectively
prevent states like California from issuing driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants, tighten rules for those seeking asylum and complete a fence along
California's border with Mexico.

Strong opposition

But the Real ID Act -- which would prohibit a state driver's license from being
used for federal identification purposes such as boarding planes unless the
state required proof of legal residence from all applicants -- has drawn strong
opposition from many Democrats and even some Republicans, particularly in the
Senate, which now will consider the provisions.

"The Real ID Act will not do a thing to make us safer," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose, who serves on the House Immigration subcommittee. She said the
border with Canada is even more porous than the one with Mexico. The nation
needs comprehensive immigration reform that will enhance security at borders and
ports while lifting the barriers to legal immigration that have forced many
Mexicans to come illegally, Lofgren said.

Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., plan to introduce
comprehensive immigration-reform legislation soon that is expected to mix
tougher enforcement with some sort of guest-worker program and a way for illegal
immigrants to earn legal status.

But many conservatives believe that the amnesty provision in 1986 helped fuel
the recent surge in illegal immigration because it showed that there was a way
to eventually be rewarded with U.S. citizenship. They vow to block anything
close to an amnesty, including guest-worker provisions that would allow illegal
immigrants to remain in the United States legally.

President Bush first proposed allowing guest workers for renewable, three-year
periods in early 2004. But there has been so much political opposition that he
has yet to submit legislation to Congress.

The Minuteman Project has fired up the debate again. Watson, the founder of
Light up the Border who has remained active on immigration issues, couldn't be
happier.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
California leads in undocumented migrants
Population of undocumented migrants by state
The illegal immigrant population continues to grow, and California still is the
home to the nation's largest illegal-immigrant community.
California -- 2,400,000
Texas -- 1,400,000
Florida -- 850,000
New York -- 650,000
Arizona -- 500,000
Illinois -- 400,000
New Jersey -- 350,000
North Carolina -- 300,000
Source: Pew Hispanic Center estimates
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Distribution of undocumented migrants by state
California has the most of any state but many migrants are now choosing to live
elsewhere
California
1990: 45%
2004: 24%
New York
1990: 15%
2004: 7%
Texas
1990: 11%
2004: 14%
Florida
1990: 9%
2004: 9%
Illinois
1990: 4%
2004: 4%
New Jersey
1990: 4%
2004: 4%
All other
1990: 12%
2004: 39%
Source: Pew Hispanic Center estimates

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED PHOTOS: PAGE 10A

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Charts (2);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Grania Marcus joins a vigil on the border near Douglas, Ariz., dedicated to
migrants who died attempting to enter the United States. Marcus and other
migrant-rights supporters say stricter enforcement hasn't deterred border
crossers but instead has driven them to more dangerous ways of making the
crossing. The lethal risks, they say, include dehydration, exposure, drowning
and crashes of overloaded vehicles.
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
A gun strapped to her waist, Cynthia Kolb crawls under barbed wire near Sierra
Vista, Ariz., after retrieving backpacks she believed were left behind by
migrants who crossed into the United States from Mexico illegally. She regularly
searches for signs of illegal immigrants in the area.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 30, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'MINUTEMEN' ALLEGE THREAT FROM COUNTY EMPLOYEE

BYLINE: KELLIE SCHMITT, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 288 words


The "Minutemen" are watching out for illegal immigrants -- and for a Santa Clara
County employee who they say e-mailed them a threatening message last month.

The message from social worker Florencio Rodarte's county e-mail address warns
the group patrolling the Arizona border to "watch your red neck ass" and that
illegal immigrants will kill them if necessary to cross.

"If you think the illeagal [sic] immigrants are going to sit by and let you
harras [sic] them while they come across you better think twice," according to
the e-mail, which has "just wait" as its subject.

Rodarte's supervisor, James Ramoni, asked the Minuteman group to remove the
e-mail from its Web site because it is not "representative of Santa Clara
County." Ramoni then reprimanded the employee and sent a memo telling the entire
social-services staff not to use county e-mail for personal reasons, County
Executive Peter Kutras said.

"That goes against all of our policies," Kutras said. "It's inappropriate and
won't be tolerated."

Talking to Rodarte isn't enough, according to the Minuteman Web site, where the
e-mail is displayed prominently. The threat deserves prosecution and possibly
firing, the group said.

This week, representatives from the Minuteman Project contacted the Santa Clara
County Sheriff's Department, which sent them to their local sheriff in Cochise
County.

Under California law, the contents of the e-mail would have been considered
hostile but not life-threatening, said Deputy Terrance Helm.

Despite dozens of threats, there have been no incidents of violence against the
hundreds of volunteers patrolling the border, said Minuteman Fred Elbel. He said
the group takes all threats seriously.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related Story: page 1A

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 6, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT'S TIME FOR COMMON SENSE;
THE GOVERNOR'S TUNE CHANGING FROM REALISTIC TO STRIDENT

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 467 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has seemed to have sensible views on immigration. You
wouldn't know that from what he's been saying lately.

If the governor has merely been careless in his recent swipes, it's a shame. If
he's turned to immigrant-bashing to distract attention from his sagging approval
ratings, it's reprehensible.

Until recently, Schwarzenegger's statements on illegal immigration balanced a
realistic view of its inevitability with awareness of the problems that come
with it. The governor said he would provide driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants if they are distinct from those given to legal residents. He has
talked favorably about a guest-worker program that would provide a path toward
residency.

But lately, Schwarzenegger has been on a verbal anti-immigrant tear.

Last week, the governor called a radio talk show to vent against billboards
advertising a Spanish-language TV station in Southern California. The billboards
-- about 75 of them throughout the southland -- say "Los Angeles, CA." But the
"CA" is crossed off and stamped with "Mexico." Los Angeles, Mexico.

Now, that's meant to grab attention. For some it's offensive, for others merely
amusing. But does it invite people to cross the border illegally, as
Schwarzenegger claimed? Hardly. The billboards were in Los Angeles, not Tijuana.
And really, is it a secret south of the border that Spanish-speakers will feel
at home in Los Angeles?

Schwarzenegger prides himself on spouting humorous or even outrageous lines to
needle opponents. He's called legislators "girlie-men," swiping a "Saturday
Night Live" joke, and he's vowed to kick nurses' butts. Yet he's suddenly
outraged that a business is using a provocative ad to speak to the millions of
Latinos in Los Angeles?

Worse, during his call to the radio station, Schwarzenegger praised the
"Minutemen," the self-styled militia that "patrolled" the Arizona-Mexico border
last month. Even President Bush denounced its members as "vigilantes," which is
what they were.

The federal government's lack of control of the borders is a major problem.
California spends $700 million each year imprisoning undocumented immigrants who
have committed crimes, and it gets only $112 million from the feds to cover the
costs. But endorsing a posse of vigilantes? It might make a good movie, but it's
not good government.

Schwarzenegger is the governor and people take what he says seriously. Already
activists are talking about a ballot measure to create a state border patrol
staffed, in part, by volunteers.

Illegal immigration is a serious issue and Schwarzenegger should take it on. But
instead of playing footsie with anti-immigrant groups, he should use his rising
star in the Republican Party to press for meaningful immigration reform.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger praised the efforts of the "Minutemen," the
self-styled militia that patrolled the Arizona-Mexico border last month.
Activists are talking about a ballot measure to create a similar patrol in
California.
PHOTO: GOVERNOR TAKES ON ANTI-IMMIGRANT TONE
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, right, had spoken favorable of proposals to give
undocumented immigrants distinct driver's licenses and for a guest-worker
program that led to residency. But in a call to a radio show last week, he
blasted a billboard ad for a Spanish-language TV station, saying it encouraged
illegal immigration, and also praised the Minutemen militia that watched the
Arizona-Mexico border last month.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 6, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SPECIAL LICENSES BETTER THAN NOTHING

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8C

LENGTH: 287 words


For two years, advocates of letting California's illegal immigrants drive
legally have scoffed at the idea of giving them a different-looking license.
Soon, as a result of a bad law, that will become their only option.

Congress is poised to pass the Real ID Act, which would require applicants for
driver's licenses to show proof of citizenship or a green card, proof of
residency and proof of a Social Security number, not just the number itself.
Citizens in states that fail to comply wouldn't be able to use their licenses to
board an airplane or enter federal buildings. That will force states in line.

The Real ID Act, which also makes it tougher for immigrants to seek asylum, is a
back-door step toward creating a national ID. It would force California to spend
millions of dollars in the next three years creating and storing digital images
without being reimbursed for the costs. Yet it's about to become law without a
hearing because its sponsors have attached it to an appropriation for the Iraq
and Afghan wars.

However, the Real ID Act doesn't forbid states to give illegal immigrants a
license that can be used for driving purposes only, not as an official ID.
Tennessee already does that.

Latino activists and even some rabbis have trashed the idea, comparing it to the
armbands that Nazis forced Jews to wear -- an over-the-top analogy. But a
different license at least would allow illegal immigrants to buy insurance and
drive without fear of having their cars impounded.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has said he was open to the concept. Sen. Gil
Cedillo, a Los Angeles Democrat who has been fighting for licenses for illegal
immigrants for years, should get the governor to commit to it.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 24, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

12 DIE IN ARIZONA DESERT AS HEAT SOARS

BYLINE: ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: TUCSON


A sudden onset of triple-digit heat led to a rash of deaths among illegal
immigrants over the weekend in Arizona's harsh deserts, with 12 people reported
dead between Friday and Monday.

Scores more were saved in nearly 50 rescue operations, U.S. Border Patrol
spokesmen said.

The deaths were scattered along Arizona's border with Mexico, but most of the
bodies were found in areas west of Tucson, including on the sparsely populated
Tohono O'odham Indian Reservation. Three were in far western portions near Yuma,
which is at the California line.

The desert areas are the focus of a federal border control initiative, with 200
extra agents brought in for the summer months.

Heat-related deaths have become common in Arizona as migrants have been pushed
into remote and harsher terrain by agents cracking down in other border areas.
The state is the busiest illegal entry point on the nation's southern border.

In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 55 immigrants died in Arizona because of
the heat, according to the Border Patrol. A total of 172 illegal immigrant
deaths were recorded during the same period.

Advocates and border enforcement officials say immigrants are often unprepared
for the extreme heat or unaware of the conditions and long hikes they'll face
once they cross into Arizona.

Temperatures reached 110 degrees Sunday in Tacna, east of Yuma. Friday, the
thermometer climbed to 106 in Sells on the Tohono O'odham Reservation.

Border Patrol search-and-rescue agents in the agency's Yuma office conducted a
dozen rescues over the weekend. Search-and-rescue supervisor Dan Sprick called
it his team's busiest three-day period ever as they found 40 people stranded in
the desert.

Seven people were treated for heat illnesses but all declined further medical
treatment, Sprick said.

An additional 37 rescues were conducted in the Tucson sector, which covers all
but the westernmost part of Arizona's border with Mexico. Agents who responded
to a cell phone call for help found 23 people in one rescue alone.

Authorities discovered the first body, a man in his early 20s, Friday evening
near Nogales. They found others sporadically on Saturday, Sunday and Monday.

All but the last body discovered were tentatively listed as heat-relateddeaths,
pending medical autopsies, Tucson sector spokesman Luis Garza said. The 12th
body, found Monday, was likely in the desert for several weeks, officials said.

Rescued migrants repeatedly told Border Patrol agents that their smugglers, also
known as coyotes, had instructed them to "only grab a gallon or two of water.
They never said anything about walking for two or three days," Garza said.

"What scares me is that there just continues to be very widely scattered
deaths," said the Rev. Robin Hoover, founder of Humane Borders, a Tucson-based
organization that puts out jugs of water in areas of the desert used heavily by
illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 24, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U VISA OFFERS HOPE FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WHO ARE ABUSE VICTIMS;
NEW RULES WOULD EXPAND THE BENEFIT

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1285 words


It's been more than a year since the last vicious beating, but in recalling it,
Maria Estervina Perez stiffens her back, looks away, and begins to quietly cry.

That cold morning, her boyfriend angrily insisted upon driving her to work.
Suddenly, at a stoplight, Perez jumped from the car, but quickly he caught her,
gripped her blouse to hold her still and stripped off his leather belt.

"He started beating me right there on the street," Perez said in Spanish, tears
streaming down her cheeks. The illegal immigrant from El Salvador felt helpless
about her relationship marked by violence. "I felt lost and abused. I had
nowhere to go."

Today, thanks to a little known document called the U visa, that benefits
immigrant crime victims, Perez, 44, has a work permit and a temporary document
that allows her to remain in the United States.

The Mercury News has learned that after five years the government has finally
completed a draft of regulations that would extend U visa benefits to thousands
more people. It is now being reviewed by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, the agency that will administer it. The wait follows a five-year delay
compounded by the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and its bureaucratic aftermath.

Without formal regulations, say women's advocates, the well-intentioned law has
sat unused, keeping numerous victims like Perez around the country unable to get
protection from their abusers and from deportation.

When the law was passed in 2000, Congress allowed for up to 10,000 victims
annually to be helped with the U visa. A temporary measure, called "interim
relief," is in place while the regulations are pending. Only about 500
nationwide have sought this temporary protection because of uncertainty about
the regulations.

Perez, a cook from Redwood City, is one of the lucky few. She is also protected
by a restraining order against her boyfriend, who was convicted of assault,
served a month in jail and was sentenced to 18 months probation.

"You don't know how to proceed when you don't have regulations to guide you,"
said Mary Dutcher, immigration program director for the Community Legal Services
in East Palo Alto.

Dutcher, an immigration attorney, helped Perez and two dozen other immigrants
from the Bay Area apply for the temporary status under U visas.

Women's advocates in the Bay Area and around the country are worried that heated
national debate about immigration reform will cause the law to continue in
limbo, or that the regulations will be written to restrict its use.

Called the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act, and passed by
Congress in October 2000, the law offers legal protection to illegal immigrants
who are victims of violent crimes, including domestic violence.

"We're struggling to explain the law to clients," said Jayaishri Srikantiah,
associate professor at Stanford University Law School, and director of the
Immigrants' Rights Clinic.

"That's very hard to do when you don't have regulations," Srikantiah said.

It's not clear how long the review will take and when the regulations will be
implemented, according to Gail Pendleton, associate director of the National
Network to End Violence Against Women, a national group that worked on passage
of the U visa law.

Once regulations are approved, said Pendleton, the work to publicize U visas,
educating law enforcement agencies and lawyers and helping more victims can
begin.

Critics weigh in

As regulations are being reviewed, opponents of the U visa are repeating the
arguments they made when it became law in 2000.

"This is the sort of thing that will be abused," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman
for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group that
lobbies for greater border and immigration restrictions.

Mehlman said crimes would be difficult to document.

"You have two separate crimes you're dealing with in this issue," Mehlman said.
"Just because you become the victim of a crime doesn't mean we should forget
about the law that you violated by being here illegally."

But without regulations, law enforcement agencies have also been hampered from
taking full advantage of the law, said Santa Clara County Deputy District
Attorney Rolanda Pierre-Dixon, who supervises her department's domestic violence
unit.

"The concept is a good one," Pierre-Dixon said. "You don't want to end up having
someone deported and put in a worse situation."

"Heaven forbid they're so afraid of deportation they're not telling law
enforcement and it allows the crime to continue," said Pierre-Dixon, who has
certified "less than a handful" of cases.

Outside of helping law enforcement, U visa has a public safety component, said
Lynette Parker, supervising attorney for the Katherine & George Alexander
Community Law Center in San Jose.

The cooperation of a victim may result in the jailing of a violent sexual
predator, getting him off the streets, Parker said.

Crime cases reviewed

Bay Area lawyers reported reviewing dozens of cases of domestic violence,
spouses of H1-B workers (those allowed to enter the United States to fill
specialized jobs), spouses of undocumented immigrants, immigrant minors who have
been raped -- all victims of crime who are likely to get deported without the
protection of U visas.

In the past six months, Dutcher, Srikantiah and other members of a network of
attorneys and social workers who help victims of domestic violence have been
quietly spreading the word about U visas. Dutcher, for instance, talked with
police chiefs and district attorneys, conducting primers on the U visa.

Pendleton prepared an informal guide for lawyers, a U-visa certification form,
and a form for law enforcement agencies.

Still, without regulations, advocates and lawyers have pursued cases
reluctantly, Pendleton said.

No one knows how many immigrants from the Bay Area have received temporary legal
status. But an informal survey of lawyers who have expertise on the subject
indicates that dozens of immigrants, most them victims of domestic violence like
Perez, have received temporary protection.

Angel Santuario, 23, a janitor from Mountain View, received an interim U visa a
month ago, also with Dutcher's help.

Three men shouting homophobic epithets at Santuario -- who is not gay --
brutally attacked him outside a Mountain View nightclub in 2003.

Santuario was 16 when he and his mother crossed the border from Mexico into the
United States.

Like Perez, he was an undocumented immigrant who lived in the shadows.

The brutal attack left Santuario with short-term memory loss, but it changed his
future in the United States.

"I'm relieved," Santuario said in an interview. "Now I can think about a job, a
family and an education."
LITTLE KNOWN U VISAS

WHAT: U Visas are for non-citizen victims of certain serious crimes including
rape, torture, trafficking, incest, domestic violence, sexual assault,
prostitution, female genitalia mutilation, involuntary servitude, slave trade,
kidnapping and blackmail.

WHY: To strengthen the ability of law enforcement agencies to prosecute cases
involving immigrants who are victims and to offer them protection regardless of
their immigration status.

HOW: To qualify, an immigrant victim must assist in the investigation or
prosecution of certain serious crimes.

Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security; National Immigration Project of
the National Lawyers Guild; National Network to End Violence Against Immigrant
Women
WHY IT MATTERS
The U visa law is 5 years old but lacks regulations. Rules are being reviewed,
and upon approval would extend benefits to thousands of illegal immigrants who
are crime victims.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Maria Perez, a domestic abuse victim, is one of only about 500 illegal
immigrants nationwide who have been able to receive a U visa.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 5, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEBATE ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION EXPANDS TO AID FOR U.S.-BORN KIDS;
POLITICIANS WEIGHING CUTS TO HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION

BYLINE: DAVID CRARY, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


While Congress and the White House wrangle over federal policy on illegal
immigrants, states and cities are wrestling with ways to accommodate their
U.S.-born children -- most of them American citizens, all with full rights to
public education.

The debate is often bitter and unpredictable as politicians argue whether to
expand or cut health care for these families, whether to bolster
immigrant-oriented school programs and whether to offer in-state college tuition
rates to children of illegal immigrants.

Some politicians and organizations contend that initiatives tailored to assist
these children only lure more illegal immigrants to the United States. Others
argue that most of these several million children will be lifelong Americans,
and are more likely to be productive adults if they receive support now.

"If you've got children already here, let's assume they're a future part of
society and are worth the same investment as any other kids," said Randy Capps,
lead author of a recent Urban Institute report on young immigrant children.

The report estimated that 22 percent of all American children younger than 6
have immigrant parents. More than 90 percent of these children were born in the
United States and automatically are citizens, and nearly one-third -- 1.3
million -- live with at least one undocumented parent, the report said.

Those seeking tougher measures against undocumented people want Congress and the
federal courts to reconsider two longstanding national policies -- a
constitutional provision that bestows citizenship on any child born on U.S. soil
and a 1982 Supreme Court ruling requiring public schools to accommodate any
school-age child regardless of immigration status.

"That Supreme Court decision was probably the single most devastating decree
that undermined immigration controls," said Dan Stein, president of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Some recent examples of how the immigration debate is playing out:

* Lawmakers in Washington state last month restored state-funded health
coverage, severed in 2002, for thousands of children of illegal immigrants.

* School officials in Houston plan to open a school specifically for immigrants
-- whether or not they are in the country legally. A new report by the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, which seeks tougher enforcement of
immigration laws, asserts that educating children of illegal immigrants costs
Texas more than $4 billion annually.

* Bills that would allow undocumented students to qualify for low, in-state
college tuition stalled in North Carolina and died in Connecticut and Arkansas.
Nine states have enacted such measures, but Kansas' law is being challenged in
federal court.

* Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano vetoed a bill that would have prohibited illegal
immigrants from receiving child care assistance.

Last November, Arizona voters approved a measure requiring state employees to
report illegal immigrants to federal authorities if they apply for certain
benefits. Advocates say the result is that many parents, fearing deportation, do
not seek services such as health care or food stamps to which their U.S.-born
children are entitled.

Many programs sprouting up across the country are designed to offset such
parental fears.

At St. Cecilia's Church in New York's East Harlem neighborhood, Regina Kirk
directs a Catholic Charities support program for Mexican and Ecuadorean mothers
-- virtually all of them undocumented.

Fear of deportation "is always there -- it affects every aspect of their lives,"
Kirk said. Still, she said, the mothers have taught each other ways to obtain
food stamps and health care.

"Though many are wary because they're undocumented, once you start talking about
their kids, they're willing to be assertive," Kirk said. "Despite all their
problems and worries . . . they feel they're giving their kids the best possible
shot at the future."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GREGORY BULL -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Maria Romano, who came to the United States illegally 17 years ago, watches as
her daughter Jennifer, 10, sets the table in their Harlem, New York, apartment
Thursday.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 7, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. PROMOTES MEXICAN IMMIGRANT PROGRAMS, SERVICES

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 653 words


U.S. government officials convened Monday in San Francisco to promote programs,
services and benefits available to Mexican immigrants in this country, including
those who are undocumented, under a binational effort aimed at protecting
workers' rights and improving the health of families.

The officials from the Department of Labor and Department of Agriculture spoke
to dozens of representatives of Mexican consulates from throughout the western
United States in a daylong training seminar aimed at jointly promoting immigrant
rights.

"We are interested in making sure that all eligible people participate in our
programs because we think our programs are very worthwhile," said Allen Ng, a
regional administrator with the USDA's Food and Nutrition Service, which
provides meals to children in school, among other programs. "This partnership
with the Mexican consulate is just another avenue for outreach."

A regional administrator for the Labor Department, George Friday, told of how
his agency's Wage and Hour Division recouped more than $3 million for 17,000
plus workers in the past year who were owed paychecks from employers.

The government's participation, though, drew criticism from an opponent of
illegal immigration, who noted a paradox -- somehow the undocumented can work in
the United States, usually through false or misleading documentation, yet their
rights are protected.

"This is another indication that the federal government has absolutely no
intention to curb illegal immigration," said Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director
of Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America, an Oakland group that wants
less immigration. "Americans should be outraged."

While the government representatives seemed careful to not publicly emphasize
how illegal immigrants can benefit under federal laws, the consuls and a top
official from Mexico's Foreign Ministry in interviews spoke openly about how the
undocumented often don't complain about working conditions for fear their
employer will have them deported.

"They have to understand that it doesn't matter if they're here undocumented;
they have labor rights and cannot be subject to slavery conditions or
exploitation," said Juan Bosco Marti, the Foreign Ministry's general director
for North American Affairs.

"Most of them don't know about these programs, so we want to do outreach to
them," he said.

There are an estimated 10 million Mexican immigrants living in the United
States, about half of them illegally, Bosco Marti said, citing Mexican
statistics. In addition, about 300,000 Mexicans are believed to migrate annually
to work in the United States to meet labor demands, according to Bosco Marti.

A highlight of the seminar was the information provided by Labor Department
representatives who said federal law requires that all workers be paid at least
minimum wage. "We are charged with making sure people get paid for their wages,"
Friday said.

Another emphasis was on the programs provided by the Agriculture Department,
such as food stamps, health brochures on diabetes printed in Spanish, and the
WIC (Women, Infants and Children) program, which provides nutrition services.
Not all the department's programs, though, are offered to illegal immigrants.

Officials of both countries said the partnership benefits the United States and
Mexico in ways that each nation couldn't achieve independently.

Undocumented workers will be more comfortable reporting workplace abuse to the
Labor Department if encouraged by Mexican consular officials. Mexican immigrants
and their families who learn to live a healthier lifestyle can reduce the cost
of health-care and hospitalization, the officials said.

"It's an investment," said Alfonso de Maria y Campos, the general consul in San
Francisco whose office assists Mexicans from San Mateo County to extreme
Northern California.

"It's a win-win situation," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 11, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW GROUP OF VOLUNTEERS TO BEGIN BORDER PATROL

BYLINE: From the Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 119 words

DATELINE: NEW MEXICO


A spinoff of a controversial civilian border-patrol group plans to monitor
crossings of illegal immigrants along the U.S.-Mexico border in New Mexico this
weekend, its leader said Friday.

The New Mexico Minutemen plan to send about 40 volunteers to the border. They
will offer food, water and medical aid to illegal immigrants, while also
reporting their presence to the U.S. Border Patrol, said Clifford Alford, the
group's leader.

"If someone breaks down on the border, we can help them," Alford said. Alford's
group is an offshoot of the Minuteman Project -- another group that drew
international attention in April when volunteers participated in civilian
patrols along Arizona's southern border.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 15, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY COUNTERS BELIEFS ABOUT ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 416 words


One quarter of the country's 10.3 million illegal immigrants have some college
education and live with families, shattering a stereotype that this sector of
the population is made up of poorly educated single men who work menial jobs,
according to a national report released Tuesday.

The report from the Pew Hispanic Center paints a portrait of the
illegal-immigrant population in the United States that will be important as the
country debates the controversial subject of immigration reform.

"The stereotype we all know is single males working in agriculture," said Doris
Meisner, senior fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, which commissioned the
study. "That is not the reality today."

Jeffrey S. Passel, senior research associate for Pew and author of the report,
found that one quarter of illegal immigrants in the U.S. have some college
education and another quarter completed high school.

Still, 49 percent of illegal immigrants have less than a high school education,
making them less educated than legal immigrants and the general U.S. population.

The Pew report also found that an estimated 13.9 million people -- one-third are
children -- live in households where one head of household or a spouse is
undocumented. More than one-fourth are U.S. citizens.

"The policy we come up for dealing with immigrants, particularly for
undocumented, puts people into little boxes," Passel said. "Well, this says,
wait a minute, the box is a whole family and not everybody in there is the
same."

Passel's report dismantled another widely held assumption: Only 3 percent of the
undocumented immigrants work in agriculture. The greatest numbers, 33 percent,
work in the service industry.

The rest work in construction, production, installation and repair, sales and
administration, transportation and material moving, and management and business.

For Arnoldo Garcia, senior program associate for the National Network for
Immigrant and Refugee Rights in Oakland, the Pew report "proves in a
non-political way that undocumented immigrants are fulfilling the needs of the
economy."

Ira Mehlman, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform
(FAIR), a national group that supports stricter immigration controls and opposes
legalization for undocumented people, conceded that "it's a complicated
situation."

"But it doesn't mean we go ahead and legalize people who are here in violation
of the law," he said. "That simply results in more illegal immigration."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 4, 2005 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AIMED AT IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: From Mercury News wire services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 107 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


The heated debate over immigration will resurface in the state Assembly this
week as lawmakers consider two constitutional amendments.

Assemblyman Mark Wyland, R-Vista, says his proposal would discourage illegal
immigration and avoid enormous costs, in part by preventing illegal immigrants
from receiving any health care or social services not required by federal law.

The other constitutional amendment, by Assemblyman Ray Haynes, R-Temecula, would
create the California border police, a force of about 1,500 to 2,000 officers
who would supplement federal border police and enforce laws that bar employment
of illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 15, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MILITARY CONTRACTOR'S ILLEGAL WORKERS HELD

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 83 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


More than half of a small military contractor's 167 employees are undocumented
immigrants, the Department of Homeland Security said Thursday. Eighteen men were
arrested, all but one of them Mexican.

An audit of hiring records showed 86 employees of Naval Coating don't have
permission to work in the United States, the department said. The company paints
ships at the San Diego Naval Station. Most of its employees have security badges
to enter the base that is home to more than 50 ships.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: In Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 24, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORMER CHESS CHAMP FREED, HEADS TO ICELAND;
HE AVOIDS DEPORTATION TO U.S., FOR NOW

BYLINE: ERIC TALMADGE, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: USHIKU, Japan


Chess legend Bobby Fischer was freed today from a Japanese detention center and
immediately headed for flight to Iceland, avoiding efforts to deport him to the
United States.

Fischer, sporting a long, gray beard, jeans and a baseball cap pulled down low
to cover his face, left the immigration detention center in this city on Tokyo's
outskirts early this morning.

Fischer was accompanied by his fiancee, Miyoko Watai, the head of Japan's chess
association, and an official from the Icelandic Embassy. They were headed for
the airport to try and catch an afternoon flight to Denmark en route to Iceland,
where he has been granted citizenship.

The chess icon was taken into custody by Japanese immigration officials in July
when he tried to leave the country using an invalid U.S. passport.

Fischer, who has been held in detention since his arrest, claims his U.S.
passport was revoked illegally and sued to block a deportation order to the
United States, where he is wanted on charges that he violated sanctions imposed
on the former Yugoslavia by playing an exhibition match against Russian Boris
Spassky in 1992.

This week, Iceland's Parliament stepped in to break the standoff, awarding
citizenship to Fischer. Iceland is where Fischer won the world championship in
1972, defeating Spassky in a classic Cold War showdown that propelled Fischer to
international stardom.

Fischer, 62, could still face extradition to the United States -- Iceland, like
Japan, has an extradition treaty with Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Fischer
Chess legend is now an Icelander.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 19, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TURBAN OBJECT OF SIKH'S LAWSUIT;
MAN HELD SINCE 1997 AWAITING HEARING

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 562 words


A devout Sikh from Union City being held in a Northern California detention
center while awaiting the outcome of a political asylum request sued his jailers
in federal court Wednesday for refusing to allow him to openly wear a turban.

Harpal Singh Cheema, 47, says his religious freedom is being violated by Yuba
County's jail staff, which restricts his use of head covering.

Under a 2002 agreement that he signed, Cheema can wear a turban only at his bed
-- as long as he's praying, reading a religious book or eating, according to the
lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Sacramento by attorneys for the American
Civil Liberties Union and Wilson Sonsini law firm in Palo Alto.

A spokeswoman for the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, whose
employees are named in the suit, said the matter could have been resolved had
Cheema agreed to be transferred to a federal facility.

Yuba County Sheriff Virginia Black, listed as a defendant, declined to comment
on the suit or discuss the jail policy on religious head wear. Co-defendant Mark
Chandless, the jail captain, did not return a telephone call.

Some jails across the country, including those in Santa Clara County, prohibit
turbans out of fear that weapons could be hidden inside.

"The person is told respectfully that we understand their concerns, but it is a
safety and security issue," jails spokesman Mark Cursi said. The same jails
accommodate religious adherents who have dietary restrictions, and Muslims are
given an extra sheet, blanket or towel to kneel for prayer, he said.

Cursi said the turban restriction "hasn't been an issue here."

It has been in other places, said Manjit Singh, co-founder of the Sikh American
Legal Defense and Education Fund, which teaches law enforcement authorities
about the ancient religion.

"We understand that an inmate doesn't have the rights and privileges of any
other regular resident of the United States, but at the same time the right to
practice their faith is not something that is negotiable," Singh said.

In an effort to balance religious freedom with security issues, his non-profit
group has suggested that Sikhs wear turbans made of shorter cloth and turbans
that match the color of jail uniforms.

Cheema, who was an attorney in his native India, and a Sikh activist in the Bay
Area, has been in detention since 1997, awaiting a hearing on his asylum case
from the federal Bureau of Immigration Appeals. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, contracts with
jails, such as the one in Yuba County, to hold inmates awaiting court
proceedings.

Cheema's attorneys allege that because he is being held for federal authorities,
Yuba County should comply with national detention standards, which allow
turbans.

"Being able to keep his head covered is such an important aspect of how he
fulfills his religious obligation, that being held under these circumstances has
been very demoralizing for him, very upsetting," said Robin Goldfaden, a staff
attorney for the ACLU Immigrants' Rights Project in Oakland.

A spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Virginia Kice, said the
agency offered to move Cheema to a federal detention facility.

Goldfaden said Cheema has been transferred several times the past eight years,
and another move would impose hardship.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 2, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Latin America in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 350 words




ARUBA

One Holloway suspect is released for now

A judge Thursday ordered the conditional release of a Dutch teenager in the
disappearance of Natalee Holloway, but he remains a suspect, his defense
attorney said.

Joran van der Sloot, 18, could be released from jail as early as Saturday and
remain free pending the outcome of the probe, Antonio Carlo said.

The judge's decision ''only has to do with the pretrial detention. The primary
condition is he has to remain available to police,'' Carlo said.

Van der Sloot was arrested June 9 along with two friends, Surinamese nationals
Satish Kalpoe, 18, and Deepak Kalpoe, 21, on suspicion of involvement in
Holloway's disappearance. All three have denied any connection to the
disappearance.

MEXICO

Man held on suspicion of drug, migrant smuggling

Federal authorities in the border city of Nuevo Laredo have deported a U.S.
citizen wanted in the United States on suspicion of drug and migrant smuggling.

Officials with the federal preventive police said Mark Iskra of Chicago was
arrested Wednesday in Nuevo Laredo, across from Laredo, Texas.

Iskra, 53, is accused of drug trafficking, migrant smuggling and disobeying an
order from a U.S. federal judge.

Iskra was turned over to Mexican officials, who deported him to the United
States.

2 men, woman held in marijuana-growing case

Federal police acting on a search warrant detained two U.S. men and a Mexican
woman on suspicion of drug production after they allegedly found the three
breeding dozens of marijuana plants at a house in the western city of Uruapan.

Authorities obtained the warrant after neighbors told police that the house was
being used as a drug laboratory, the Attorney General's Office said in a news
release.

Police said they found the three suspects ''carrying out tests to improve the
production of marijuana plants'' in an area equipped with grow lights and about
three dozen plants.

The three were detained pending formal charges. No information was immediately
available on their states or hometowns.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday

Play highlights prejudice against immigrants

BYLINE: By T.S. Mills-Faraudo, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


SAN BRUNO

Take a miserable day at the Department of Motor Vehicles -- mixed with numerous
prejudicial comments -- and you have a one-actor play about a Latino teen trying
to get his driver's license in the United States.

Skyline College hosted "Wheels," a play produced by the National Conference for
Community and Justice about the themes of immigration and xenophobia in the
country.

Three of the performances Wednesday and this morning were open for Skyline
students, faculty, staff and administrators. There also was a performance later
today for high school students in San Mateo County.

Actor Kevin Sifuentes portrays 10 different characters throughout the play,
which takes place mainly in a chaotic DMV office. But his main character is a
teenaged Latino who is determined to get his driver's license.

"Freedom lives beyond those doors," the character says when he arrives at the
DMV.

But he discovers that his so-called "freedom" isn't so easy to obtain.

After waiting hours in line, he's told that he must come back with his birth
certificate to prove he was born in the United States.

Furthermore, he finds out about the different immigrant stereotypes by listening
to cus-

tomers and workers in the DMV.

For example, a girl standing next to him complains to her friend via cell phone
about all the immigrants in the DMV office and how they are "ruining it" for
regular citizens in the country.

And a DMV employee tells Sifuentes that immigrants are making "a mockery of the
country."

When he finally receives his learner's permit, he's pulled over by a police
officer who proceeds to treat his brother like a criminal.

The play stirred many emotions from a crowd of mostly Skyline students at a
performance Wednesday afternoon.

Many students said it was a good portrayal of how people talk about immigrants.

NCCJ volunteer Diane Flinn, who facilitated discussion on the play, said
playwright Peter Howard actually interviewed people in Los Angeles to get ideas
for the script.

Several students in the audience said they have had first-hand experiences with
being harassed by police officers.

One student even said nothing was done when her brother was beaten up by
officers and her father filed a complaint with the police department.

Skyline student Priscilla Schwartz said many people in the country don't try to
embrace the differences in cultures and instead want immigrants to be like
everyone else.

She said the play was a very realistic portrayal of what she has experienced.

"I thought it was very provocative," she said. "It was as if they took it out of
my various experiences at the DMV. But there was nothing about it that surprised
me."

NCCJ is a human-relations organization dedicated to fighting bias, bigotry and
racism.

Flinn said the play was not meant to provide solutions to any of the questions
raised by the immigration issue.

"We're not here to say what is right or what is not right," she said. "We're
here to provide some dialogue."

Staff writer T.S. Mills-Faraudo covers education. She can be reached at [650]
348-4338 or tmills@sanmateocountytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              95 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            October 19, 2004 Tuesday

Newly minted citizens eager to vote

BYLINE: By Michele R. Marcucci, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 626 words


ANGEL ISLAND -- In the shadow of the barracks where thousands of Chinese
immigrants were once detained and amid the run-up to one of the most hotly
contested presidential elections in recent memory, 20 people from 15 different
nations became Americans on Monday, sworn in by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services Director Eduardo Aguirre.

Several said they planned to immediately use their new status to register to
vote. Monday was the last day for Californians to register to vote in the Nov. 2
presidential election.

Charles Sayle of San Mateo has been in the United States for 42 years. But the
retired electrical engineer from Canada, who has worked on the Golden Gate
Bridge and at San Francisco International Airport, said the coming election and
the issues, particularly homeland security, pushed him to become a citizen. He
said he planned to register to vote after the naturalization ceremony.

"Basically, voting is a big deal. I should have done it a long time ago," said
Sayle, who said he will probably vote for Democratic Sen. John Kerry. "I think a
new government would be more likely [to protect us] than the one that won't
admit to its mistakes."

It's very important to me to vote. I think it's extremely important to keep
President Bush in power, said Robertson, who is originally from Spain and who
has lived in the United States for more than eight years. He has the policies we
need to fight the war on terror.

I can contribute to the way things are going to happen in this country, said
Guerrero, who came to the United States from Ecuador and planned to register to
vote Monday. The whole world is watching to see who's going to win.

USCIS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said her agency doesn't see an increase in
citizenship applications during election years, but upcoming elections energize
new citizens.

When people realize they're naturalized [before an election], of course it's
going to energize them, Rummery said. When they apply, they don't know, are they
waiting six months, eight months or 10 months?

Several of the people naturalized Monday said they take their newfound right to
vote seriously.

It's my responsibility, said Susanna Choy, a software engineer from Millbrae who
came to the The outdoor ceremony took place on the site of the island's old mess
hall.

Angel Island has been dubbed the "Ellis Island of the West," comparing it to the
East Coast's premier entry point. But most of the 175,000 Chinese immigrants who
passed through Angel Island between 1910 and 1940 were detained between two
weeks and six months, and many were denied entry, targeted by the Chinese
Exclusion Act of 1882, according to a state park pamphlet.

USCIS's Aguirre, a naturalized citizen from Cuba, said he hopes to move away
from the island's negative history, much as his agency works to distance itself
from the oft-maligned Immigration and Naturalization Service from which it
sprang.

The agency has reduced application backlogs and lines at its offices, he said.
And the island -- including barracks marked with the poetry of those detained
there -- are being targeted for restoration.

Aguirre is officiating naturalization ceremonies across the United States and
for military overseas in tandem with visits with staff at his agency's offices.
He is scheduled to participate in another ceremony today in San Francisco.
Monday's ceremony was the first at Angel Island since 1991, Rummery said.

The agency processes about 6 million applications each year and has naturalized
500,000 citizens this year, Aguirre said. About 65,000 citizens have been
naturalized in the San Francisco region alone, District Director David Still
said.

Contact Michele Marcucci at mmarcucci@angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              96 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            November 2, 2004 Tuesday

For new citizens, path to the ballot booth is often difficult

BYLINE: By Justin Jouvenal, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: CAMPAIGN 2004

LENGTH: 564 words


REDWOOD CITY -- While many voters toss away their ballot stubs without a second
thought, Clarisa Eakin and her husband have carefully saved a pile of them since
her first vote in 2002.

The native of the small Mexican city of La Paz will do the same with her stub
from the 2004 election. They represent citizenship in her adopted land and the
mastery of a process many new immigrants struggle with: voting.

"It's memorabilia of the moment I became a citizen," the Menlo Park resident
said of saving the ballot stubs.

Casting a ballot may seem like a simple enough process, but for new citizens it
often requires an education in democracy and new ways of thinking about their
role in shaping the government.

"When they become a citizen, many think they can automatically vote," said
Sheryl Bergman, director of International Institute, a nonprofit organization
that works with the immigrant community in San Mateo county. "They don't
understand the voting process, the party system or understand there's more to
the ballot than just voting for president."

Bergman said two immigrants came into the International Institute offices on
Monday. They wanted to vote, but didn't realize they had to register.

Although ballots are printed in five languages in San Mateo County, many voters
who don't speak English and have rudimentary education find it difficult to
understand the legalistic language of many ballot measures and to fill out
voter-registration forms.

Bergman said local issues and races are often not covered as extensively in the
Spanish-language media as they are in English-language outlets. And she said the
flood of last-minute campaign commercials that many voters use to make decisions
on races rarely run on Spanish-language TV.

Many new immigrants also come from countries or regions of countries where
democracy has not taken firm root. They may feel their vote doesn't count
because of their experience with corruption in their home countries or be wary
of voting because of political violence in their homelands.

"People from Oaxaca and Guerrero are sometimes afraid to vote," Eakin said of
the rural regions of southern Mexico. "The politics can get nasty, and people
are often threatened with violence."

Bergman believes these factors are part of the reason why the demographics of
people who vote in California do not match those of the general population. In
2000, Latinos and Asians made up 34 percent and 11 percent of the state's
population respectively, but only accounted for 14 percent and 7 percent of the
voters. In contrast, whites make up 48 percent of California's population, but
accounted for 71 percent of the voters in 2000.

The International Institute has tried to address that imbalance by helping
immigrants register to vote and offering classes that tutor immigrants on the
voting process. On Monday night, the organization staged a mock candidate's
forum with staff members posing as presidential candidates and giving speeches
about the candidates' platforms.

About 40 people, most immigrants from Latin America, attended the event, which
was conducted in Spanish. The crowd was clearly energized -- they offered
"George Bush" a mix of applause and boos, while giving "John Kerry" an
enthusiastic welcome.

Staff writer Justin Jouvenal can be reached at [650] 348-4331 or
jjouvenal@sanmateocountytimes.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers


                              97 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 7, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Threat by former worker reported;
TRIED TO EXTORT $25,000, BUSINESS OWNER SAYS

BYLINE: By Elise Ackerman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 186 words


The owner of a Palo Alto plumbing business has told police a former employee
tried to extort $25,000 from him.

David Bell said the employee quit last week, after working for about six months,
then called two days later claiming to have a video that proved Bell employed
undocumented workers.

Bell said all his employees have shown him working papers.

The employee who quit was surly and would arrive late and leave early, Bell
said. Bell tolerated him because he could do the job.

Bell said the former employee left a message on his cell phone last week, then
an unknown man called Monday and threatened his family and home. The second man
also mentioned the video, Bell said.

Sgt. Scott Wong said police are investigating the blackmail allegation but
aren't going to interview Bell's employees about their immigration status. ''We
don't have a concern who he has working for him,'' Wong said.

Immigration laws are enforced by the federal Department of Homeland Security and
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

Contact Elise Ackerman at eackerman @mercurynews.com or (650) 688-7588.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 9, 2005 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Trying to cross border, immigrant loses family

BYLINE: By Elliot Spagat; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Galdino Perez was crouched in the fetal position on the minivan floor when his
dream ended -- along with the lives of his pregnant wife and two children.

The family was crammed into a smuggler's van on what was supposed to be a trip
from the remote mountains along the California-Mexico border to Los Angeles and
a future of greater opportunity.

Confronted with a Border Patrol checkpoint, however, their driver swerved into
oncoming traffic, and Perez's life changed forever.

Perez remembers the van ceiling illuminated by a patrol car's flashing lights.
He clutched his wife and 11-year-old daughter as the driver ''went faster,
passing more cars, passing more cars, passing.'' But when the lights went away,
the driver didn't slow, didn't stop his jerky weaving.

The van full of illegal immigrants slammed head-on into a pickup truck,
authorities say, killing Perez's 22-year-old wife of three years, his daughter
and 13-year-old son by another woman, and two other immigrants. Perez and five
others were injured in the June 30 crash.

The minivan driver -- identified as Fidel Wilfredo Gonzalez, 19, of Los Angeles
-- pleaded not guilty in his hospital room Wednesday to five charges of
second-degree murder.

Such crashes are a periodic feature of life near the border. Migrant rights
groups say the checkpoints endanger lives because smugglers try to evade them by
swerving into oncoming traffic, often at night, sometimes headlights off.

A Border Patrol spokesman said roadside checkpoints are a ''critical enforcement
tool'' in deterring human and weapons smuggling. Spokesman Mario Villarreal
wouldn't discuss any specifics of the crash or the survivors' future.

Perez, 32, had worked five years in the United States before he returned to
Mexico three months ago to fetch his children, hoping to provide them comforts
he could not in Mexico City.

''I wanted to be with them, to come here, to all be together,'' Perez said in
Spanish from his hospital bed at Scripps Mercy Hospital in San Diego.

He often cringed in apparent pain -- his ribs are injured and left hip required
an operation.

A native of Oaxaca state in southern Mexico who grew up in Mexico City, Perez
landed a $7.50-an-hour job washing dishes at a Mexican restaurant in Sacramento.
There he met his wife, Marta Alcala Estrada. Three years ago, they moved to
Dayton, Ohio, where Perez earned $8.50 an hour at a bacon processing plant.

About three months ago, the couple returned to Mexico City to pick up Perez's
children -- Nancy, 11, and Christian, 13. They were living with their
grandmother. He hadn't seen them in three years.

The family flew to the sprawling Mexican border city of Tijuana, just across
from San Diego, where they met a smuggler who promised passage to Los Angeles
for $1,500 each. They planned to resettle in Sacramento.

Perez recounted a journey that began June 30:

For about two hours, a pair of guides led them through wooded mountains east of
San Diego and across the border -- a stretch that became increasingly popular
when U.S. authorities beefed up enforcement in San Diego. The guides deposited
the groups at two-lane state Highway 94. About five minutes later, the 2005
Chrysler minivan arrived.

The driver ushered them in and said they were going to a hotel.

He was considerate at first, slowing down for a speed bump. Then things went
horribly wrong.

Perez couldn't see exactly what happened, but remembers the van picking up speed
and the lights flashing.

He clung to his wife and daughter, one stranger on each side of them. One row
back, his son was sandwiched between two cousins. The driver was silent.

After about two minutes, Perez said, the lights went out. The driver continued
mashing the engine. A minute more, the fatal crash.

The CHP identified the other driver as a 69-year-old San Diego woman who
suffered minor injuries. They said she had braked and tried to swerve her 2002
Ford truck out of the way.

Perez said he was anxious to learn the fate of his cousins.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 16, 2005 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Lodi cleric, son abandon efforts to stay in U.S.

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 603 words


A Lodi Muslim cleric and his son, caught up in a government investigation of
international terrorism, dropped their legal battle to remain in the United
States on Friday and agreed to return to Pakistan as soon as two weeks from now.

In a brief appearance in front of an immigration judge in San Francisco,
Mohammad Adil Khan, 47, and his son Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, said through their
attorney that they had chosen to abandon their fight against deportation.

Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office (ICE) had
designated the father and son for deportation, accusing them of overstaying
their visas. Khan, who holds a doctorate in Islamic studies from the University
of Sindh in Pakistan, also was accused of lying on his religious visa about the
location of the mosque where he was to work.

Paul Nishiie, assistant chief counsel for ICE, said the government withdrew the
charge of lying as part of the agreement that Khan and his son will leave
voluntarily.

''This whole incident has caused a lot of turmoil in the family,'' said Saad
Ahmad, a Fremont attorney representing the father and son. ''In the interest of
everything, they've decided not to let this go on.''

Khan and his son will return to Karachi, hoping to resume their religious work
at a mosque there.

Handcuffed and shackled, Khan, who wore a brown, jail-issue uniform, was
escorted out of the courtroom, smiling and saying ''Thank you,'' to journalists.
He has a heart condition and the ordeal has worsened his health, Ahmad said.

Investigators and prosecutors have suggested that Khan and his son had links to
the Taliban, a terrorist group in Afghanistan, an allegation that their
attorney, Ahmad, vehemently denied.

''The government has no evidence of terrorism against my clients,'' Ahmad said.
''Because if it did, they would not be returning to Pakistan voluntarily. The
government would keep them here.''

Virginia Kice, ICE spokeswoman in Laguna Niguel, said, ''I think that's purely
speculative.''

''Our goal all along was to remove these men from the United States,'' she said.
''This accomplishes this goal. It's a legal victory for the agency.''

Khan arrived in the United States in 2001 on a religious visa, invited by the
Lodi Muslim Mosque to open a school in the area. His son, then a minor, joined
him two years later. Khan's hope was to teach a moderate interpretation of
Islam, Ahmad said.

But in June, Khan and his son were arrested by federal agents as part of a sweep
of an alleged terror cell based in Lodi. Another father and son, Umer Hayat, 47,
and his son Hamid, 22, were arrested by the FBI. Investigators said the Hayats
lied about the son's training at a terror camp in Pakistan.

Khan was the former imam of a mosque in Lodi where the Hayats worshiped.

A second cleric, Shabbir Ahmed, 32, also of Pakistan, was arrested in the same
investigation, also accused of overstaying his visa. When Khan left the Lodi
mosque to work in Sacramento, Ahmed replaced him.

Khan is a well-known cleric in Pakistan whose father, Salimullah Khan, head of
an association of Pakistani madrasahs, is a friend of Pakistan President Pervez
Musharraf, Ahmad said. Their relationship with the Hayats was purely
professional, and they had no knowledge of any terror activity, the lawyer said.

Ahmad said Khan and his son were innocent bystanders ''caught at the wrong place
at the wrong time.''

''Of course this is an injustice,'' he said. ''These are people who came here to
spread peace and they're being deported.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 18, 2005 Monday MO1 EDITION

California news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 257 words




LAGUNA BEACH

Immigration debate spawns festival protest

About 100 opponents of illegal immigration protested outside the Festival of the
Arts, criticizing the city's funding of a day laborer site with money partly
generated by the event.

The site helps workers, many of them immigrants, find jobs regardless of their
status.

Saturday's protest, which ended without major incidents or arrests, marked the
latest in a string of tense illegal-immigration demonstrations in Southern
California.

FRESNO

Police not entertained by gang glorification

A judge has ruled that six alleged gang members who mocked police and chugged
beer on a DVD should stand trial.

Superior Court Judge Gary Hoff on Friday ordered a trial for Serafin Villalobos
Ceja, 18; James Gayton Frausto, 23; Adolfo Leyva Gomez, 19; Joseph Anthony
Trinidad, 20; Francisco Gonzalez, 18; and Danny Alonzo Jr., 28.

Each man faces a felony charge for allegedly participating in a criminal gang.

RIVERSIDE

Life term for woman in husband's death

A woman convicted of killing her husband in 2000 was sentenced to life in prison
without the possibility of parole.

Mary Wheeler, 51, was convicted in May and sentenced Friday by Superior Court
Judge Patrick Magers.

She was arrested last year in connection with the Dec. 15, 2000, death of
William Wheeler, her fifth husband; two previous husbands also had died.
Officials said she forged a store receipt as an alibi, and sued over unpaid life
insurance benefits.

From the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 22, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

No auxiliary border patrol planned;
HOMELAND SECURITY CONTRADICTS OFFICIAL

BYLINE: By Anna Gorman; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


One day after a top immigration government official said his agency was looking
at forming a civilian force to help patrol the U.S.-Mexican border, the
Department of Homeland Security said Thursday there were no such plans.

''There are currently no plans by the Department of Homeland Security to use
civilian volunteers to patrol the border,'' said press secretary Brian
Roehrkasse. ''That job should continue to be done by the highly trained,
professional law enforcement officials of the Border Patrol and its partner
agencies.''

Roehrkasse stated that the department had not received any details of the idea
proposed by its Customs and Border Protection Commissioner, Robert Bonner.

Bonner told reporters Wednesday that his office was looking into whether the
U.S. Border Patrol should create its own group of trained volunteer patrols,
similar to auxiliary programs of local sheriff's departments and other law
enforcement agencies.

''They would be organized in a way that would help the Border Patrol perform its
mission,'' Bonner told reporters. He acknowledged that the idea had not been
approved by the Department of Homeland Security.

Bonner also commended the Minuteman Project, armed citizens who patrolled the
Mexican border in Arizona this spring, for not engaging in vigilantism or using
force.

A similar group, California Minutemen, is currently posted at the border east of
San Diego to watch for illegal immigrants trying to cross into the United
States. Some participants are armed.

In its statement, the Department of Homeland Security also noted that its
Citizen Corps program provided an opportunity for volunteers interested in
helping ''support the homeland security mission.'' Programs include a community
emergency response team and a fire corps.

The Customs and Border Protection agency declined to comment Thursday on
Bonner's statements.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 25, 2005 Monday

Additional 'Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2715 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

"No auxiliary border patrol planned". Well they had better plan SOMETHING!! The
United States takes in more legal immigrants than any country in the world. We
are doing our part and don't need 4000 people, per day, coming illegally. In 40
years (give or take) we had 4 million people enter this country illegally.
Washington's (brilliant) answer was amnesty. We now have 10,300,000 MORE people
here illegally. Some are, indeed, hard working folks looking for a better life.
Unfortunately, many are serial killers, car thieves, drug dealers/runners,
rapists, terrorists, etc. This is the part that is unacceptable. The ONLY way to
insure who is coming into this country is for the government to KNOW about each
and every one entering the country. Why is that a problem? Serious diseases,
once wiped out here, are making a comeback in this country, and are being
brought in by illegals, who don't get aid and aren't known about as they wander
about spreading theses diseases. TB, malaria, polio, even leprosy for God's
sake. In 40 years there were only 900 cases reported here. The last 3 years more
than 7000 cases have shown up. Brought here be illegal alians. People are not
against immigration. People are against just anyone wandering in to cause, who
knows, how much carnage.

T. M. Hade, Santa Clara

Yesterday, I awoke to discover that Canada had officially become the fourth
country (after the Netherlands, Belgium and Spain) to legalize same sex
marriage. I was elated. The last minority it's okay to discriminate against had
finally been recognized in North America.

This morning I awoke to discover that two teen-age boys, one eighteen and one
seventeen, had been hanged in a public square in Iran for the crime of
homosexuality. For daring to act on their natural attraction to each other,
these kids were put to death after fourteen months of torture in an Iranian
prison. I was appalled, revolted and profoundly saddened.

One step forward and one step back, I guess is the lesson of the last two days.
We in the US are now faced with the confirmation of a Supreme Court justice whom
our own fundamentalists would like to help forever prevent same sex marriage in
this country, reinstate sodomy laws, and further undermine the separation of
church and state. I, for one, hope our legislators will look very hard at this
nominee, and prove to themselves and to me that he will not help to turn our
democracy-of-the-many into a theocracy-of-the-few.

Tom Lockwood, San Jose

Your story on CDC's study of chemicals in our bodies missed the mark. The
report's good news that levels of a handful of chemicals are falling is the
direct result of dramatic actions taken years ago: getting lead out of gasoline,
restricting smoking in public places, and banning the three pesticides in
question. Today, there are more than 1,200 pesticides registered in the U.S.
(CDC tested for 43) and tens of thousands of industrial chemicals (CDC tested
for 105). CDC found dozens of chemicals in most subjects tested, and experts
estimate that we all have an average of 700 chemicals in our bodies - many
linked to cancer, birth defects and other serious health conditions. It's time
to roll up our sleeves, not rest on our laurels.

Kristin S. Schafer, San Francisco

In regard to the study done by the cardiologist and colleagues at Duke
University you reported July 15, I appreciate all of the prayers that went out
for the heart patients. It is precious that Christians, Muslims, Jews and
Buddhists were all praying to see healthy hearts beating in the chests of those
whose names they received.

As a Christian Scientist who has been healed through prayer, and someone who
aspires to see others healed through prayer, I like to believe that every prayer
is holy and "does not return unto us void."

May I add my prayer, "May all who seek a healthy heart feel the touch of the
healing spirit of Love that transforms the affections and heals the heart"?

Hazel Smathers, Campbell

We have been hearing Bush claiming at the G-8 meeting that the USA can't be
economically constrained with joining the Kyoto Protocol. Unfortunately, no one
in the Bush camp is considering the economic crash that global warming is
bringing on.

Mother Nature is rapidly getting much more powerful WMDs of global warming and
also ocean deterioration fueled up by our pollution from fossil fuel burning and
overuse of nitrogen fertilizer. When She begins full scale assaults with her
WMDs, hundreds of millions will be dying of starvation from flooded or burnt out
crops and from little harvest out of dying oceans. Oh, and our and every other
country's economy will then be dead too. The Kyoto goals are pathetically
inadequate, as the increasing amounts of nitrogen going to the ocean from runoff
and sewage are feeding more and more microbes, many of which will be giving off
more greenhouse gases (GHGs) to very likely exceed the hoped for Kyoto
reductions.

Taking action for alternative clean energy could become a big time economic
stimulus while getting control of our pollution to perhaps stall out the
assaults of those WMDs. A program is hereby proposed that instead of using the
SS money for private accounts, we should for using it to underwrite bonds with
public utilities that build new plants for generating electric energy from sun,
wind and/or tides. Also such bonds should underwrite new utility plants to turn
our wastes in garbage, sewage and animal farms into hydrogen or low pollution
fuel as various processes have been reported for such conversions leaving behind
inert carbon that will not later become carbon dioxide, the major GHG from
fossil fuel burning. Other programs involving farming of legume crops, not
needing nitrogen fertilizer, might be underwritten for food, feed and even
chemicals thereby reducing greatly nitrogen fertilizer use.

Such a program for SS money would reduce sizably our trade deficits, provide
hundreds of thousands new, non-outsourceable jobs generating major t ax revenue,
and feed back interest payments and eventually bond payoffs to SS, We would
greatly decrease our pollution to slow global warming, which is still coming on.
And we could thumb our noses at those who are ripping us off on ever increasing
oil and gas prices now.

James A. Singmaster III, Fremont

Last night, when our Comcast connection went out and we didn't have cable or
internet access, I called the Comcast trouble desk. After a long wait, I talked
to a nice young female who was very apologetic, gave me the limited amount of
information that was available to her, and was probably paid minimum wage. So I
got to thinking about the unfairness of the system, where highly paid executives
make decisions and mistakes and have poor people take the flak for them. There
should be a law. Anyone paid as an executive would have to personally serve a
minimum of one shift per year at their company's Trouble Desk. This would teach
them humility and give them an appreciation for the work of those who toil for
them. It would also motivate them to improve their products and services rather
than rely on public relations and advertising.

John Cormode, MountainView

As the fellow said, "What is worse, ignorance or apathy?" Replied his companion,
"I don't know and I don't care." The events in London, in Sharm el Sheik, the
killings in Darfur, 9/11, all are a wakeup call to the Western World that the
forces of terror and radical Islam cannot be ignored.

For too long Europe has coddled its Muslim population in the hopes that terror
would avoid its shores. For too long despotic Arab leaders have winked and
looked the other way or have offered support as long as Islamic terrorists were
blowing up cafes in Tel Aviv or Hindu temples in India or buildings in New York.
As rockets from Palestinian terrorists daily rain down on Jewish villages, the
Protestant Church leaders in the United States vote to divest themselves from
companies that do business with Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East
and our only reliable ally there.

Churchill put it best: "Appeasement in time of aggression is feeding the
crocodiles in the hope that you will be eaten last." Indifference to violence
and brutality against one group of humans is indifference to brutality against
all humans. The time for complacency has past. Or we will all pay the price.

Jeffrey A. Carmel, Portola Valley

We know that Karl Rove revealed the identity of an undercover CIA agent to
reporters Matt Cooper of TIME and columnist Robert Novak. Karl Rove either broke
the law and/or was grossly negligent with national secrets yet he still works in
the White House. Outing an undercover CIA agent devastates our national security
and credibility. President Bush should keep his promise and fire Karl Rove.
There needs to be a full accounting to the American people about what happened
in this CIA leak case. Karl Rove and other leakers in the White House outed a
CIA agent in order to discredit a critic of the Bush Iraq policy. Have the
networks been paid by advertisers to move away from this on-going coverage?

George H. Morris, San Jose

Regarding the article written by Lisette Arellano, I remember as a young
Catholic also questioning some of the traditions of our church. I was blessed,
though, with a very loving relationship with God, which at first seemed separate
from my "religion". Later I realized that the mass and its symbols are a
reverent form of celebrating God's love. The doctrines of the Catholic Church
are a human attempt to interpret the Gospels into daily life. There are many
denominations of churches. Hopefully Lisette can find one where she can express
and nurture her relationship with God. I also hope she doesn't become an adult
who is no longer a member of the Catholic Church, but continues to
discourteously criticize our traditions which they don't understand.

Laura Trovato, San Jose

A comment in the article about "...untold survivors' stories" by Truong Phuoc
Khanh is one example of why corruption in the White House is being accepted. We
have wonderful immigrants in the Untied States. Immigrants have introduced many
new ideas that have bettered our country. But, many immigrants will, per
article, "...sacrifice their lives for a little piece of freedom." Many
immigrants will argue we cannot challenge our leadership. If we, howeever,
ignore corruption in our leadership, lost of ethics, lying, hidden agendas,
etc., we will not have the country we are proud to have as a democratic example
to the world. Citizens of the United States must keep their eyes open to these
injustices. We must recognize our journalists are a check and balance when one
party seeks control over our constitutional check and balance system. We must
remind our governmental representatives they work for us and not the President.
Give your voice to keeping honor in the White House and a country worth yearning
for.

Delores Carson, Cupertino

I began reading Sullivan Marsden's editorial "Technology can help us cut the oil
cord" anticipating an intelligent discussion about the need for renewable
energy. Instead, Mr. Marsden expounded on the benefits of cleaner fossil fuels
and nuclear power. The insanity of fossil fuel and nuclear energy production is
becoming more and more apparent, while the obvious, clean and dependable energy
of the sun remains in an obscure corner called "alternative energy". Life on
this planet exists thanks to solar energy. It's time to recognize that our
future depends on harnessing solar energy in ways that sustain people, the
planet and profits. There is no shortage of energy produced by the sun on a
daily basis. There is a shortage of vision among our leaders and fossil fuel
executives who can only see short-term profits for personal gain.

Oliver Bock, Woodside

George Bush has found another soul mate. John Roberts has an eerie physical
resemblance to the President - height, weight, complexion, cleft chin, and
corporate conscience. It's unlikely that he earned any D grades in his freshman
year at Harvard, however.

The Supreme Court is poorer for the loss of an independent woman's voice from
Arizona. Justice O'Connor has set the bar higher for her intelligence,
individualism, independence, integrity and initiative. Let's grant the
intelligence, but a resume that largely consists of successfully representing
corporate interests doesn't tell us anything yet about John Roberts' character.
The Senate has a duty to examine that issue very carefully.

Silicon Valley knows a lot about boardroom politics and corporate takeovers. A
narrow majority can control the assets of any rival in a shareholder battle.
Dividend payouts are the rewards for the winners. Sound familiar? The corporate
Bushies found a way to do a leveraged buyout of the country and John Roberts
looks like the latest appointment to the new Board of Directors. It looks like
there is no room for more women on that Board.

Michael Carey, Menlo Park

Is it just me, or do the London city attacks being coordinated with the attacks
on our civil liberties (i.e. extension of the "Patriot Act") conjure up images
of (a) the Reichstadt fire, (b) our president cavorting with Saudi Princes?

I wish I could more easily believe such thinking were unfounded consipiracy
theory.

Miles Zarathustra, Boulder Creek

I've heard of Bay Meadows Land Development described as "progress" by Mr. Adam
Alberti, a Bay Meadows spokesperson. I'd like to ask how many San Mateo
residents feel about voting on the issue to determine if, in fact, they consider
this progress. How many people in the Amazon think chopping and burning down
trees in the rainforest, in order to grow crops, think of that as 'progress'?
There's a lesson in Easter Island, don't chop down all the trees because then
there is nothing there to sustain life. Bay Meadows Land Development could have
been a great idea many years ago when there was still open space to keep and
sustain the environment of San Mateo County. Today, however, it should be voted
down by the people of San Mateo County who live here (as opposed to the
developers/owners who do not). It has currently been sold to the highest bidder
without regard to the amount of pollution, congestion and concrete wasteland (as
Joni Mitchell's song said "They sold paradise and put up a parking lot". Bay
Meadows land is the last resource, an asset as valuable as the water we drink,
the air that we breathe, the greenery we need to sustain us and as a historical
landmark that makes San Mateo what it is. The people of San Mateo County deserve
more than a short-sighted deal to regarding our LAST piece of open and valuable
land. Doesn't anyone smell the forest burning? The residents of San Mateo County
deserve to make their voice heard about smart growth and change. I suggest we
first try to better our community by rennovation of what is already concrete and
not to replace what we have as our most valuable asset and resource. As a
lifetime San Mateo County resident, I am not against smart growth and betterment
of our community. But, twenty years down the road when we are so much more
congested and perhaps the railroad falls into bankruptcy, where will we be then?
Let's have more residents have a voice in their community resource and allow the
public to decide what it is they really want in their hometown... not some
wealthy outsiders who don't even live in California.

Susan Churchill, San Mateo

The only thing we know about Judge Roberts is that he is a brilliant well
qualified jurist. As a nominee for the Supreme Court Justice America has a right
to know where he stands on bringing this country forward. This is a lifetime
appointment so I believe Americans deserve to know who the real Judge Roberts
is; whether above all he will interpret the law by being fair and protect ALL
AMERICANS. He is not going to be a Judge for Conservatives only but for ALL
AMERICANS. If he is an embodiment of these virtues he should, therefore, answer
every question posed on him by the people of America through our Senate Judicial
Committee who will be acting on our behalf, the people of the United States of
America.

Joy and John Barnes, Sunnyvale

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 26, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Grand Prix will be more of the same

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 751 words


It seems to me there are already more than enough fast cars racing through
downtown San Jose without having a Grand Prix there.

Robert S. Miller
San Jose

College coach deserved firing

The San Jose Mercury News should be commended for the well-researched article on
the Santa Clara women's basketball team, regarding how the university intends to
fire coach Michelle Bento-Jackson amid allegations that she mistreated players
and that her husband sexually harassed them (Page 1B, July 17).

Sometimes the truth hurts, but in this case I strongly feel the school, the
community and the players will be better off after Coach Bento-Jackson's
dismissal.

Michael L. Markey
Orinda

Citizenship for honor students

Regarding a recent Mercury News article about an immigration judge who ruled
that four Phoenix honors students facing deportation after being caught by
immigration agents while on a trip to a science competition could stay in the
United States (Page 10A, July 22): I was appalled that these four students were
singled out by immigration agents on a field trip because they were Latinos.

I was even more surprised that they were indeed illegal immigrants. And how
about their parents? They thought it OK to send their kids on a field trip
across the country knowing they were here illegally? These young people were
honor students and should know better. If we are allowing them to stay in the
United States, then a firm time period to achieve citizenship is appropriate.

Carla Neumann
San Jose

Which is worse, sex or violence?

Our culture continues to get it backward. The latest inversion comes courtesy of
the Entertainment Software Rating Board's relabeling of the ''Grand Theft Auto:
San Andreas'' video game as ''Adults Only'' due to hidden, but accessible, sex
scenes (Page 1A, July 21).

''GTA'' was originally approved for ''mature'' viewing (17 and up) because of
incredible amounts of senseless violence. Now the board and others seem to think
depictions of sex somehow create greater harm to society than blatant violence.

Seems that when we're not simple-mindedly lumping sex and violence together,
we'll see that violence is sort of bad but that sex is much worse.

Ugh.

Brooke W. Boering
Aptos

Sen. Boxer's tactics are embarrassing

Sen. Barbara Boxer can be counted on to object to anything and everything the
president proposes. She uses delay tactics by making ridiculous charges against
the selection of the U.N. delegate, and now she questions the selection of
nominee John Roberts.

Does Boxer have any qualifications to render judgments concerning governmental
selections and procedures? Where does she get off making these comments? Is the
hard work she does for us only to impede the functions of our government? I'm
embarrassed to say she is our state's representative in the Senate.

William Sirvatka
Saratoga

Supreme Court isn't a legislature

It would seem that Santa Clara University Professor Bradley W. Joondeph is
conflicted (Op-Ed, July 22). He feels Supreme Court nominee John Roberts is
eminently qualified, stating that Roberts has ''impeccable credentials.''

However, Joondeph worries that Roberts' personal feelings may not be appropriate
for the modern notion to legislate the popular will.

Well excuse me, but I always thought that we had two different branches of
government in this country for these functions, one to legislate through popular
representation, and another to adjudicate the laws through disinterested
judicial analysis. Is Joondeph teaching something different at the Santa Clara
University School of Law? Or perhaps he still has not outgrown his confessed
presumptuousness?

Elliott Pflughaupt
Los Gatos

No wonder Iraqis seem ungrateful

If trying to win the hearts and minds of Iraqis is a goal of this
administration, then the statistics reported recently in the Mercury News of
nearly 23,000 Iraqi civilians deaths and 42,500 injured since the U.S.-led
invasion began (Page 15A, July 20), is certainly not promoting that goal.

The fact that the U.S. government does not even attempt to track the Iraqi
deaths shows a complete disregard for the suffering and death of innocent
civilians, 18 percent of whom are women and children. No wonder we're not being
embraced with open arms, as this administration had predicted before the war. It
seems the only arms we have been welcomed with are those aimed at us by the
insurgents.

Mary Barmettler
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 26, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Study: Immigrants spend less on health care in U.S.;
CHILDREN IN PARTICULAR RECEIVE MANY FEWER SERVICES THAN THE NATIVE-BORN

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 480 words


Immigrants in the United States spend less than half what native-born residents
spend per capita on health care, according to a new study from Harvard and
Columbia universities published Monday in the American Journal of Public Health.

Using government data from the U.S. Department of Health's Agency for Healthcare
Research, the authors of the study said what they learned ''refutes the
assumption that immigrants represent a disproportionate financial burden on the
U.S. health care system.''

''The view that immigrants are taking away from others is sheer demagoguery,''
said one of the study authors, Dr. Steffie Woolhandler, associate professor of
medicine at Harvard Medical School. ''Politicians have seized the issue and hold
the view that immigrants are clogging emergency rooms. That's simply not true.''

Described as the first national study on the health care expenditures of
immigrants, the study involved a complex analysis of 1998 government data,
comparing what immigrants and the native-born spent on emergency room visits,
hospital visits and prescription drugs.

On average, an immigrant spent $1,139 annually on health care, compared with
$2,546 for a U.S.-born resident. Latinos spent even less. U.S.-born Latinos
spent $1,870, compared with $962 for foreign-born Latinos.

The study also found that immigrant children received dramatically less health
care than U.S.-born children: 71 percent less in doctor's visits and 72 percent
less prescription medications.

Although immigrant children visited emergency rooms half as much as U.S.-born
children, their average per capita expenditures were greater.

The data on immigrant children suggests that when they visit emergency rooms,
they are sicker, the study authors said.

The study fuels a longstanding national debate about immigration and its
economic costs.

Advocates of limits to immigration and a crackdown on undocumented immigrants
criticized the report, saying that it used old data and fails to take into
account the true cost of immigrant health care -- particularly to the
undocumented -- at the country's public hospitals.

''You can't determine whether immigrants are a burden to the health care system
simply by this kind of analysis,'' said Steven A. Camarota, a research analyst
at the Washington think tank Center for Immigration Studies. ''That doesn't tell
you very much. You have to find out what they pay in taxes.''

Diana Hull, president of the Californians for Population Stabilization, a group
that calls for a moratorium on immigration, challenged the study because it did
not distinguish between legal and illegal immigrants.

Uninsured illegal immigrants turn to public hospitals for health care, and local
and federal governments now shoulder the cost of providing this care, Hull said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 26, 2005 Tuesday PS1 EDITION

Life is cruel, immigration crueler yet

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 673 words


First of two parts.

Katka Zajicova didn't think the world could be any crueler than it was the day a
camper plowed into her family's car, killing her husband, knocking her
unconscious and leaving their young daughter as a witness to her father's death.

Turns out, she underestimated the U.S. immigration system's capacity to deliver
despair.

Zajicova can ponder that now that her 17-month battle to stay in the United
States is lost. Today Zajicova and her 3-year-old are in the Czech Republic,
coping with life as newcomers in their own country.

''I have to rebuild my life from zero,'' Zajicova said the day after arriving in
Ostrava. ''I have to find a place to live. I have to help Sara to adjust, help
her with the language, because she doesn't speak much Czech.''

Her trip from San Francisco to Prague was the end of a long lesson during which
Zajicova learned how compassionate America's people are and how bewildering and
unaccountable its immigration system is.

No, it wasn't supposed to turn out this way. The hideous accident on a beautiful
stretch of Highway 1 changed everything.

''Something like that happens to you in a strange country and suddenly in one
second, your whole life is totally swept away.''

Two happy years

Zajicova, 34, and her daughter moved to the United States in 2002 to join
Zajicova's husband, Zdenek Zajic, a software engineer on an H-1B visa. They
lived in Aldercroft Heights. For Zajicova it was a life of moms' groups and
family outings.

''We were just a happy family,'' she says. ''Really happy.''

On a trip to the beach in February 2004, Zajic stopped the family's small Ford
near Davenport to turn left toward the beach. A camper rear-ended the Ford and
pushed it into an oncoming pickup truck.

Zajic and the family dog, Alaska, were killed instantly. Sara was spattered with
blood. She was trapped in the car with her dead father and unconscious mother
for 10 to 15 minutes, Zajicova says.

After the accident, Sara started coloring her dolls' faces red. She covered them
with blankets. Zajicova found her a therapist and the counseling appeared to
help.

A plan to stay

It helped Zajicova, too, who found inspiration. Though her eligibility to remain
in the country expired with her husband's death, she had a plan to stay and keep
up Sara's therapy.

She would obtain a student visa and enroll in Santa Clara University's graduate
psychology program. The study would help her with Sara's behavior and with her
own despair. The knowledge would help with her job once she returned to the
Czech Republic, where she is a federal judge.

Zajicova got a visitor's visa and waited for word on her student visa.

Life was looking up. Mother and daughter were settling into the Santa Cruz
mountains. Neighbors offered comfort. Sara and Zajicova made friends at Sara's
preschool and at a local horse riding stable.

Zajicova started attending Skyland Community Church, where she met the Wetherill
family. Little Jack was a bit younger than Sara and became like a brother.
Jack's mother, Gina, was something of a soul mate.

''The friend I had been looking for turned out to be her,'' Gina Wetherill said.

Zajicova was accepted at Santa Clara University. She could support herself. She
owned property in the Czech Republic and had a job waiting there -- signs that
she intended to return after her studies.

And staying in the United States was best for Sara. Sending her back to the
Czech Republic would be an ''extreme hardship,'' SCU psychology professor
Eleanor Willemsen wrote to immigration authorities.

''In general,'' she said later, ''it's a major dumb idea to suddenly dislodge a
child from the only world she has ever known and take her to a country that is
totally unfamiliar.''

To a reasonable person, Zajicova's visa looked like a certainty.

But Zajicova would soon learn that when it comes to U.S. immigration policy,
very little is reasonable and nothing is certain.

Friday: Zajicova tries to start over. Contact Mike Cassidy at
mcassidy@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       July 26, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Life is cruel, immigration crueler yet

BYLINE: By Mike Cassidy; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 673 words


First of two parts.

Katka Zajicova didn't think the world could be any crueler than it was the day a
camper plowed into her family's car, killing her husband, knocking her
unconscious and leaving their young daughter as a witness to her father's death.

Turns out, she underestimated the U.S. immigration system's capacity to deliver
despair.

Zajicova can ponder that now that her 17-month battle to stay in the United
States is lost. Today Zajicova and her 3-year-old are in the Czech Republic,
coping with life as newcomers in their own country.

''I have to rebuild my life from zero,'' Zajicova said the day after arriving in
Ostrava. ''I have to find a place to live. I have to help Sara to adjust, help
her with the language, because she doesn't speak much Czech.''

Her trip from San Francisco to Prague was the end of a long lesson during which
Zajicova learned how compassionate America's people are and how bewildering and
unaccountable its immigration system is.

No, it wasn't supposed to turn out this way. The hideous accident on a beautiful
stretch of Highway 1 changed everything.

''Something like that happens to you in a strange country and suddenly in one
second, your whole life is totally swept away.''

Two happy years

Zajicova, 34, and her daughter moved to the United States in 2002 to join
Zajicova's husband, Zdenek Zajic, a software engineer on an H-1B visa. They
lived in Aldercroft Heights. For Zajicova it was a life of moms' groups and
family outings.

''We were just a happy family,'' she says. ''Really happy.''

On a trip to the beach in February 2004, Zajic stopped the family's small Ford
near Davenport to turn left toward the beach. A camper rear-ended the Ford and
pushed it into an oncoming pickup truck.

Zajic and the family dog, Alaska, were killed instantly. Sara was spattered with
blood. She was trapped in the car with her dead father and unconscious mother
for 10 to 15 minutes, Zajicova says.

After the accident, Sara started coloring her dolls' faces red. She covered them
with blankets. Zajicova found her a therapist and the counseling appeared to
help.

A plan to stay

It helped Zajicova, too, who found inspiration. Though her eligibility to remain
in the country expired with her husband's death, she had a plan to stay and keep
up Sara's therapy.

She would obtain a student visa and enroll in Santa Clara University's graduate
psychology program. The study would help her with Sara's behavior and with her
own despair. The knowledge would help with her job once she returned to the
Czech Republic, where she is a federal judge.

Zajicova got a visitor's visa and waited for word on her student visa.

Life was looking up. Mother and daughter were settling into the Santa Cruz
mountains. Neighbors offered comfort. Sara and Zajicova made friends at Sara's
preschool and at a local horse riding stable.

Zajicova started attending Skyland Community Church, where she met the Wetherill
family. Little Jack was a bit younger than Sara and became like a brother.
Jack's mother, Gina, was something of a soul mate.

''The friend I had been looking for turned out to be her,'' Gina Wetherill said.

Zajicova was accepted at Santa Clara University. She could support herself. She
owned property in the Czech Republic and had a job waiting there -- signs that
she intended to return after her studies.

And staying in the United States was best for Sara. Sending her back to the
Czech Republic would be an ''extreme hardship,'' SCU psychology professor
Eleanor Willemsen wrote to immigration authorities.

''In general,'' she said later, ''it's a major dumb idea to suddenly dislodge a
child from the only world she has ever known and take her to a country that is
totally unfamiliar.''

To a reasonable person, Zajicova's visa looked like a certainty.

But Zajicova would soon learn that when it comes to U.S. immigration policy,
very little is reasonable and nothing is certain.

Friday: Zajicova tries to start over. Contact Mike Cassidy at
mcassidy@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 28, 2005 Thursday

Additional 'Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2854 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Mike Cassidy's July 26 column discussed the immigration service's inflexibility.
While I have great sympathy for Zajicova losing her husband in such a tragic
accident, I still am having trouble with the thought process used in this
article. At one point Cassidy stated, "She owned property in the Czech Rep and
had a job waiting - signs that she intended to return after her studies." Then
he quoted the psychology professor as saying it would be a major hardship for
the child to return, "a major dumb idea to dislodge a child from the only world
she has ever known and take her to a country that is totally unfamiliar." Do you
see any disconnect in these two thoughts? If the woman intends to return, at
what point will this not be the only world the child has ever known? Are we
pretending that if the child is taken back in four years from now, perhaps, she
would then be ready to go to a totally unfamiliar country? It wouldn't be a
hardship at that point, or after ten years, or twenty years?

This time I suspect the immigration service finally has it right. Making friends
in a new country does not mean you shouldn't be sent back when your visa
expires. Zajicova is a judge, has property, clearly is financially solvent. Now
would be the time for them to return while the child is young and can adjust
more easily. Imagine it as a teenager. She could easily learn to speak "more"
Czech than she does now. Presumably they would have some family support there as
well to help them through this crisis.

Much as I feel for the woman losing her husband, I can't see the hardship in
returning to the country of her birth. I'm sure there are many more stories that
show how terrible our immigration system is. This isn't one of them.
Alternatively, tell Zajicova to go to Mexico and sneak across the border. She
can stay here forever and get free health care.

Diane Brauch, Los Altos Hills

I find it amazing that Brooke Shields is being honored for spreading postpartum
"awareness" by promoting the drug Paxil. On July 1, 2005 the FDA issued a Public
health Advisory about the potential increased risk of suicide in adults taking
antidepressants (such as Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil, etc. This extends an earlier
warning that the drugs can cause suicidal behavior in children.

Roughly 28 million Americans -- one in every ten -- have taken Prozac, Zoloft,
or Paxil or a similar antidepressant, yet very few patients are aware of the
dangers of these drugs, nor are they aware that better, safer alternatives
exist.

During the past decade and with greater frequency, there has been an alarming
increase in murder/suicides, suicides, domestic violence, bizarre mass killings,
mother (parents) killing children, road and air rage, school shootings and
workplace violence in North America where documented evidence has shown the
involvement of Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft, Luvox, SSRI/Antidepressant drugs and/or
other mind and mood altering drugs.

No "awareness" campaign about Paxil/Prozac can be complete if it does not show
the alternate darker and mostly hidden side to these drugs.

Marsie Sweetland, Los Gatos

Of COURSE animals are abused and not pampered in the rodeo. Can anyone really
justify the rodeo? We really SHOULD be past this as a society and it's sad that
we're not. It's wrong to abuse animals and force them in to behaviours for our
entertainment. Period.

Katrina Berg Sussmeier, San Jose

With all of the cries for more taxes and money for schools, you would think we
are scraping the bottom of the barrel. Leaky roofs, broken rest rooms and
outdated textbooks are the reasons given for the "crisis".

Yet the superintendent of of ESUHSD gets free money. She resigned after 2 years
on the job, and gets 1.5 years of severance pay. That is ridiculous on its face.
Add in health insurance for the same 1.5 years, and we have a gross
mismanagement of school funds.

There is similar mismanagement with textbooks. We do not need the latest, most
expensive textbooks for most subjects. At the K-12 level algebra is still
algebra, likewise calculus, chemistry, English and biology. Only history texts
should be considered for frequent updating.

I am with the Governor in reining in all state spending, including schools.
Until the school administrators show they are upholding their fiduciary duties,
I would not give them another dime. They need more efficiency, not more money.

Chris Olmos, Santa Clara

"Bush scores universal praise for...education" (front page, 7/24) What claque of
squinty-eyed accountants concluded this? C'mon, boys, push up those green
eyeshades, look away from last week's same-store-sales and next quarter's
forward P/Es, and try to think ahead to the likely outcomes of Bush's education
plans. "No Child Left Behind" was certainly successful in some things, like
forcing the schools to divulge students' personal information to the feds, and
causing more time to be spent on testing, likely at cost of less time spent
teaching.

The problem is that the Bush educational legacy seems likely to be the
legitimization of the teaching of Creationism, in one or other of its guises, as
a full-fledged equivalent to evolution and the ancient origins of the universe.
"So what?" you say. "Let the kids hear both theories and pick for themselves."
The only problem is that a belief in Creationism requires science illiteracy, a
total ignorance of the meaning of the word "theory". Indeed, that ignorance is
shown every time someone says "Evolution is, after all, just a theory." I'm sure
you have all heard that, and if you don't see what the problem is, you need to
do a little homework, yourselves. This is hardly an issue in any of the advanced
countries of the world. Only here, where Bush has profited handsomely from his
coterie of Christian fanatics, is the matter thus distorted. It was actually
settled in 1633, when Galileo recanted his heliocentric theory after being shown
the instruments of torture, but whispered as he turned his back on the
Inquisitors "but still it moves." No edict of Church or State can change the
results of science, and when Bush tries, he stands no more chance of doing so
than he did of magically causing WMDs to appear in Iraq by repeating enough
times the lies about their presence. All he can do by clinging to this
illiterate use of the word "theory" is to damage American science by corrupting
real scientific results with convenient fictions. So, when they succeed in
pushing through the national standardized tests, what would you predict is going
to be the correct answer to the question "How old is the Earth?" Or to "When
will the world end?" Is this going to make any difference in the directions the
nation takes?

But he can also do vast damage to the future of humankind, while he is at it. By
thinking that he can wish away the effects of global warming, or change the
future by repeating that it is unproven and needs more study, he can only make
the future all the more catastrophic when it comes fully upon us.

An "Education President"? He has profited from the scientific ignorance of a
large fraction of the US population, and if you think this is going to be a good
thing for the future of US technology . . . well, you folks just pull your green
eyeshades back down and go back to peering at your annual reports.

Robert J. Miller, San Jose

Victor Davis Hanson would excuse the Iraq war rights abouses and strategic and
intelligence failings because we did the same things in other wars. Apparently,
we have no societal obligation to transcend prior immoral and defective actions.

He also would liken Iraq to past wars fought against aggressors who started the
conflicts and were clear threats to our security. Iraq is a premeditated war of
choice, launched by Bush in the interests of oil, political power and no-bid
government war contracts for his big donors.

I have no use for the hysterical hyperbole of Michael Moore's Far Left. But the
cooly articulated distortions of Mr. Hanson's Far Right are equally specious,
and only confirm that the reason nothing changes is that, "The only thing that
we learn from history is that we learn nothing from history."

Steve Johnson, Portola Valley

I was shocked, completely shocked, that that an employee of the United States
Government, while on duty no less, dared to mention the word "God" in a
prayerful way for all of the world to hear and/or read. This blasphemous
utterance was reported in the San Jose Mercury News of July 27, 2005. It seems
Discovery Commander Eileen Collins, reflecting on the space ship Columbia, dared
to say "God bless them tonight. And God bless their families." Whatever happened
to separation of church and state? I'm sure the ACLU is planning their strategy
as I write this and will have an army of lawyers dogging the crew and NASA
management to make certain that such a grievous error such as this never happens
again! Oh yes, don't forget to go after our President who is obviously
responsible for this whole nefarious scheme!

George Beck, San Jose

The San Jose Water Company, a public utility, plans to have Big Creek Lumber
Company log their pristine forest lands. Few of us have seen this property as
there is no public access. It is between Lexington Reservoir and Summit Road in
the Santa Cruz Mountains. It is in the Los Gatos Creek Watershed that supplies
Lexington Reservoir and Vasona.

I have spoken to Mr. Andrew Gere, director of operations and water quality, at
the SJ Water Company and have listened to Big Creek's presentations several
times.

The fear of fire is great in these mountains. The 1985 fire terrified me, and as
a home owner in the area, I have supported keeping the California Department of
Forestry Fire Station at Alma Bridge in operation.

This fear of fire is what the San Jose Water Company and Big Creek Lumber are
using to ensure that the public will go along with their plan.

The SJ Water Company and Big Creek Lumber also stand to make a lot of money.

Here are some of the points Mr. Gere discussed with me on the phone. A formal
timber harvesting plan has not yet been filed.

1. The forest will be "thinned" by taking large healthy trees to let scrawny
ones grow.

2. Roads will be cut into the wilderness to allow large timber harvesting
equipment to gain access.

3. Helicopters and cables will be used to do some of the harvesting.

4. Timber harvesting will go on about every two years for at least 18 years.

5. Lumber trucks will go Summit Road to Hwy. 17 to Hwy. 1.

San Jose Water District and Big Creek plan to eliminate opposition by appealing
to the fear of fire we all have. If there is no forest, there is no fire. But
the loss may be as great. There are other less invasive measures that can be
taken for fire control, like clearing invasive species and cutting fire breaks.
I have seen what Big Creek Lumber did when they harvested lumber in the Bear
Creek area. Many trees were cut, there was brush piled 10 and 15 feet high,
there was devastation everywhere. It did not look like a healthy forest at all.
It was not the same damage you would see in a fire. It was different kind of
disaster.

Rea Freedom, Los Gatos

In Wednesday July 27th's story entitles "Our Kids need to move from Harry to
history,' David S. Broder argues that todays history instruction is much worse
than the instruction of previous generations. His very examples, however, show
that what he learned as a child is flawed.

He says that "the majority of 12th graders did know know...how government
spending during the Great Depression affected the economy." US 12th graders
should not know this because government spending during the depression did not
affect the economy. John Maynard Keynes, the economist whose writings have
shaped economic policy since the first World War, said that Rosevelt New Deal
spending program "were not sums which by themselves could conceivably elevated
to prosperity as large and as depressed an economy as the United State's in the
1930's." The reason that the US was recovering from the Depression during the
New Deal was because of Roosevelt massive press campaign, including his fireside
chats, boosted consumer confidence, stimulated spending, and thus got the US out
of it's slump.

It seems that Broder needs to reopen his history textbook and join in with the
rest of us 12th graders in learning history.

Tom Williamson, Cupertino

Roberts claimed that he didn't "recall" paying for the Federalist Society's
membership dues, while record shows that he's on the Society's steering
committee. It shows that he is disingenuous, dishonest, unreliable, and
untrustworthy, as he did not have to pay for his membership to be a member.
Somebody else could have paid for it, as many law firms pay for their lawyers'
bar membership dues, as well as membership in many other organizations. Roberts
is hiding his right wing philosophy behind his mask of a charming and
accomplished persona. We cannot afford another dishonest right winger on the
Supreme Court.

Eva Levine, San Jose

A recent editorial in the Mercury News (Editorial, July 25th), expressing
support for same sex marriage legislation in California, does not take into
consideration the real differences between unions between heterosexual and same
sex couples. At the core of marriage is the ability to raise a family. If same
sex marriage is legalized in California, and ultimately in all 50 states, all
forms of "discrimination" will be outlawed. But is it "discrimination" to favor
heterosexual couples in adoption proceedings? Such favoritism appears to me to
be sound public policy, rathe than an act of discrimination. Don't children have
some kind of "civil right" to be raised by a heterosexual couple, if at all
possible?

While same sex couples have shown love and commitment in raising children in
many instances, such family arrangements should perhaps be viewed as a necessary
"war measure" in difficult times, rather than as an enduring basis for family.
Douglas Hawes, San Jose

Victor Hanson's recent screed ("The past will teach us -- if we listen" 7/28/05)
sure got the wrong headline. His main point is the exact opposite.

I'm always amused when the right winds up arguing moral relativism, something
they generally accuse the left of doing. Mr. Hanson excuses the Patriot Act (and
conveniently forgets to mention Guantanamo Bay or Abu Grayib) with Lincoln's
suspension of Habeas Corpus and FDR's Japanese internment camps
(euphemistically, he renames them "relocation camps"). Remember, if you're
against moral relativism, things are supposed to be universally right or wrong,
not according to context.

Hanson gets some jabs in at the left for false war analogies, and then goes on
to make a whopper of his own, comparing Bush's lying about WMDs in Iraq with
Wilson entering WWI "without being attacked" so "should we conclude Wilson lied,
thousands died?" Well, we might have concluded that if Wilson had sent 15,000
troops to Europe and 150,000 to India, while telling Americans that India was
amassing an enormous army with advanced weaponry that was going to invade
California.

The operative words in the quote "those who cannot learn from history are doomed
to repeat it" are "learn from." Mr. Hanson, by excusing every mistake made in
the Iraq war by providing examples of mistakes made in previous wars, proves
that he has not learned from history at all. "Learning" means recognizing those
past mistakes and not making them in the future, not just excusing them when
they happen with platitudes like "history should offer us solace that we are
never really alone."

Chris Weigant, Brookdale

There is a professional sports team in San Jose that averages over 13,000 people
for 16 home games every year (not including the playoffs). These are actual
people paying money to see quality professional soccer, versus the delusion of
the A's moving to San Jose. The Earthquakes have won 2 championship cups in
their 10 years and play incredibly exciting soccer before dedicated fans. With
the quakes closer than ever to moving, it is time for the City council and
County board members to wake up and ask themselves, "Why do so many different
cities want our team?" A top 10 city, where many of its residents grow up
playing soccer, needs this team, for family fun, for the economy, and for its
identity.

Phil Noteware, San Jose

I recall Goddard's first rocket experiments when I was a child 70 years ago
reading science fiction pulps. From that time forward up to the space shuttle,
we knew that the propulsion module had to be underneath the passenger module.
The placement of the spaceship beside the propulsion module was insane for
exactly the reason our shuttle program is in trouble today.

Had the shuttlecraft been placed above the boosters, foam and other debris could
fall off without any effect on the shuttlecraft. And we would not have lost the
previous ship and crew two years ago. I suspect this was done to avoid building
a taller hanger to berth it in.

Charles Wilkes, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 29, 2005 Friday

Additional 'Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2854 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Mike Cassidy's July 26 column discussed the immigration service's inflexibility.
While I have great sympathy for Zajicova losing her husband in such a tragic
accident, I still am having trouble with the thought process used in this
article. At one point Cassidy stated, "She owned property in the Czech Rep and
had a job waiting - signs that she intended to return after her studies." Then
he quoted the psychology professor as saying it would be a major hardship for
the child to return, "a major dumb idea to dislodge a child from the only world
she has ever known and take her to a country that is totally unfamiliar." Do you
see any disconnect in these two thoughts? If the woman intends to return, at
what point will this not be the only world the child has ever known? Are we
pretending that if the child is taken back in four years from now, perhaps, she
would then be ready to go to a totally unfamiliar country? It wouldn't be a
hardship at that point, or after ten years, or twenty years?

This time I suspect the immigration service finally has it right. Making friends
in a new country does not mean you shouldn't be sent back when your visa
expires. Zajicova is a judge, has property, clearly is financially solvent. Now
would be the time for them to return while the child is young and can adjust
more easily. Imagine it as a teenager. She could easily learn to speak "more"
Czech than she does now. Presumably they would have some family support there as
well to help them through this crisis.

Much as I feel for the woman losing her husband, I can't see the hardship in
returning to the country of her birth. I'm sure there are many more stories that
show how terrible our immigration system is. This isn't one of them.
Alternatively, tell Zajicova to go to Mexico and sneak across the border. She
can stay here forever and get free health care.

Diane Brauch, Los Altos Hills

I find it amazing that Brooke Shields is being honored for spreading postpartum
"awareness" by promoting the drug Paxil. On July 1, 2005 the FDA issued a Public
health Advisory about the potential increased risk of suicide in adults taking
antidepressants (such as Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil, etc. This extends an earlier
warning that the drugs can cause suicidal behavior in children.

Roughly 28 million Americans -- one in every ten -- have taken Prozac, Zoloft,
or Paxil or a similar antidepressant, yet very few patients are aware of the
dangers of these drugs, nor are they aware that better, safer alternatives
exist.

During the past decade and with greater frequency, there has been an alarming
increase in murder/suicides, suicides, domestic violence, bizarre mass killings,
mother (parents) killing children, road and air rage, school shootings and
workplace violence in North America where documented evidence has shown the
involvement of Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft, Luvox, SSRI/Antidepressant drugs and/or
other mind and mood altering drugs.

No "awareness" campaign about Paxil/Prozac can be complete if it does not show
the alternate darker and mostly hidden side to these drugs.

Marsie Sweetland, Los Gatos

Of COURSE animals are abused and not pampered in the rodeo. Can anyone really
justify the rodeo? We really SHOULD be past this as a society and it's sad that
we're not. It's wrong to abuse animals and force them in to behaviours for our
entertainment. Period.

Katrina Berg Sussmeier, San Jose

With all of the cries for more taxes and money for schools, you would think we
are scraping the bottom of the barrel. Leaky roofs, broken rest rooms and
outdated textbooks are the reasons given for the "crisis".

Yet the superintendent of of ESUHSD gets free money. She resigned after 2 years
on the job, and gets 1.5 years of severance pay. That is ridiculous on its face.
Add in health insurance for the same 1.5 years, and we have a gross
mismanagement of school funds.

There is similar mismanagement with textbooks. We do not need the latest, most
expensive textbooks for most subjects. At the K-12 level algebra is still
algebra, likewise calculus, chemistry, English and biology. Only history texts
should be considered for frequent updating.

I am with the Governor in reining in all state spending, including schools.
Until the school administrators show they are upholding their fiduciary duties,
I would not give them another dime. They need more efficiency, not more money.

Chris Olmos, Santa Clara

"Bush scores universal praise for...education" (front page, 7/24) What claque of
squinty-eyed accountants concluded this? C'mon, boys, push up those green
eyeshades, look away from last week's same-store-sales and next quarter's
forward P/Es, and try to think ahead to the likely outcomes of Bush's education
plans. "No Child Left Behind" was certainly successful in some things, like
forcing the schools to divulge students' personal information to the feds, and
causing more time to be spent on testing, likely at cost of less time spent
teaching.

The problem is that the Bush educational legacy seems likely to be the
legitimization of the teaching of Creationism, in one or other of its guises, as
a full-fledged equivalent to evolution and the ancient origins of the universe.
"So what?" you say. "Let the kids hear both theories and pick for themselves."
The only problem is that a belief in Creationism requires science illiteracy, a
total ignorance of the meaning of the word "theory". Indeed, that ignorance is
shown every time someone says "Evolution is, after all, just a theory." I'm sure
you have all heard that, and if you don't see what the problem is, you need to
do a little homework, yourselves. This is hardly an issue in any of the advanced
countries of the world. Only here, where Bush has profited handsomely from his
coterie of Christian fanatics, is the matter thus distorted. It was actually
settled in 1633, when Galileo recanted his heliocentric theory after being shown
the instruments of torture, but whispered as he turned his back on the
Inquisitors "but still it moves." No edict of Church or State can change the
results of science, and when Bush tries, he stands no more chance of doing so
than he did of magically causing WMDs to appear in Iraq by repeating enough
times the lies about their presence. All he can do by clinging to this
illiterate use of the word "theory" is to damage American science by corrupting
real scientific results with convenient fictions. So, when they succeed in
pushing through the national standardized tests, what would you predict is going
to be the correct answer to the question "How old is the Earth?" Or to "When
will the world end?" Is this going to make any difference in the directions the
nation takes?

But he can also do vast damage to the future of humankind, while he is at it. By
thinking that he can wish away the effects of global warming, or change the
future by repeating that it is unproven and needs more study, he can only make
the future all the more catastrophic when it comes fully upon us.

An "Education President"? He has profited from the scientific ignorance of a
large fraction of the US population, and if you think this is going to be a good
thing for the future of US technology . . . well, you folks just pull your green
eyeshades back down and go back to peering at your annual reports.

Robert J. Miller, San Jose

Victor Davis Hanson would excuse the Iraq war rights abouses and strategic and
intelligence failings because we did the same things in other wars. Apparently,
we have no societal obligation to transcend prior immoral and defective actions.

He also would liken Iraq to past wars fought against aggressors who started the
conflicts and were clear threats to our security. Iraq is a premeditated war of
choice, launched by Bush in the interests of oil, political power and no-bid
government war contracts for his big donors.

I have no use for the hysterical hyperbole of Michael Moore's Far Left. But the
cooly articulated distortions of Mr. Hanson's Far Right are equally specious,
and only confirm that the reason nothing changes is that, "The only thing that
we learn from history is that we learn nothing from history."

Steve Johnson, Portola Valley

I was shocked, completely shocked, that that an employee of the United States
Government, while on duty no less, dared to mention the word "God" in a
prayerful way for all of the world to hear and/or read. This blasphemous
utterance was reported in the San Jose Mercury News of July 27, 2005. It seems
Discovery Commander Eileen Collins, reflecting on the space ship Columbia, dared
to say "God bless them tonight. And God bless their families." Whatever happened
to separation of church and state? I'm sure the ACLU is planning their strategy
as I write this and will have an army of lawyers dogging the crew and NASA
management to make certain that such a grievous error such as this never happens
again! Oh yes, don't forget to go after our President who is obviously
responsible for this whole nefarious scheme!

George Beck, San Jose

The San Jose Water Company, a public utility, plans to have Big Creek Lumber
Company log their pristine forest lands. Few of us have seen this property as
there is no public access. It is between Lexington Reservoir and Summit Road in
the Santa Cruz Mountains. It is in the Los Gatos Creek Watershed that supplies
Lexington Reservoir and Vasona.

I have spoken to Mr. Andrew Gere, director of operations and water quality, at
the SJ Water Company and have listened to Big Creek's presentations several
times.

The fear of fire is great in these mountains. The 1985 fire terrified me, and as
a home owner in the area, I have supported keeping the California Department of
Forestry Fire Station at Alma Bridge in operation.

This fear of fire is what the San Jose Water Company and Big Creek Lumber are
using to ensure that the public will go along with their plan.

The SJ Water Company and Big Creek Lumber also stand to make a lot of money.

Here are some of the points Mr. Gere discussed with me on the phone. A formal
timber harvesting plan has not yet been filed.

1. The forest will be "thinned" by taking large healthy trees to let scrawny
ones grow.

2. Roads will be cut into the wilderness to allow large timber harvesting
equipment to gain access.

3. Helicopters and cables will be used to do some of the harvesting.

4. Timber harvesting will go on about every two years for at least 18 years.

5. Lumber trucks will go Summit Road to Hwy. 17 to Hwy. 1.

San Jose Water District and Big Creek plan to eliminate opposition by appealing
to the fear of fire we all have. If there is no forest, there is no fire. But
the loss may be as great. There are other less invasive measures that can be
taken for fire control, like clearing invasive species and cutting fire breaks.
I have seen what Big Creek Lumber did when they harvested lumber in the Bear
Creek area. Many trees were cut, there was brush piled 10 and 15 feet high,
there was devastation everywhere. It did not look like a healthy forest at all.
It was not the same damage you would see in a fire. It was different kind of
disaster.

Rea Freedom, Los Gatos

In Wednesday July 27th's story entitles "Our Kids need to move from Harry to
history,' David S. Broder argues that todays history instruction is much worse
than the instruction of previous generations. His very examples, however, show
that what he learned as a child is flawed.

He says that "the majority of 12th graders did know know...how government
spending during the Great Depression affected the economy." US 12th graders
should not know this because government spending during the depression did not
affect the economy. John Maynard Keynes, the economist whose writings have
shaped economic policy since the first World War, said that Rosevelt New Deal
spending program "were not sums which by themselves could conceivably elevated
to prosperity as large and as depressed an economy as the United State's in the
1930's." The reason that the US was recovering from the Depression during the
New Deal was because of Roosevelt massive press campaign, including his fireside
chats, boosted consumer confidence, stimulated spending, and thus got the US out
of it's slump.

It seems that Broder needs to reopen his history textbook and join in with the
rest of us 12th graders in learning history.

Tom Williamson, Cupertino

Roberts claimed that he didn't "recall" paying for the Federalist Society's
membership dues, while record shows that he's on the Society's steering
committee. It shows that he is disingenuous, dishonest, unreliable, and
untrustworthy, as he did not have to pay for his membership to be a member.
Somebody else could have paid for it, as many law firms pay for their lawyers'
bar membership dues, as well as membership in many other organizations. Roberts
is hiding his right wing philosophy behind his mask of a charming and
accomplished persona. We cannot afford another dishonest right winger on the
Supreme Court.

Eva Levine, San Jose

A recent editorial in the Mercury News (Editorial, July 25th), expressing
support for same sex marriage legislation in California, does not take into
consideration the real differences between unions between heterosexual and same
sex couples. At the core of marriage is the ability to raise a family. If same
sex marriage is legalized in California, and ultimately in all 50 states, all
forms of "discrimination" will be outlawed. But is it "discrimination" to favor
heterosexual couples in adoption proceedings? Such favoritism appears to me to
be sound public policy, rathe than an act of discrimination. Don't children have
some kind of "civil right" to be raised by a heterosexual couple, if at all
possible?

While same sex couples have shown love and commitment in raising children in
many instances, such family arrangements should perhaps be viewed as a necessary
"war measure" in difficult times, rather than as an enduring basis for family.
Douglas Hawes, San Jose

Victor Hanson's recent screed ("The past will teach us -- if we listen" 7/28/05)
sure got the wrong headline. His main point is the exact opposite.

I'm always amused when the right winds up arguing moral relativism, something
they generally accuse the left of doing. Mr. Hanson excuses the Patriot Act (and
conveniently forgets to mention Guantanamo Bay or Abu Grayib) with Lincoln's
suspension of Habeas Corpus and FDR's Japanese internment camps
(euphemistically, he renames them "relocation camps"). Remember, if you're
against moral relativism, things are supposed to be universally right or wrong,
not according to context.

Hanson gets some jabs in at the left for false war analogies, and then goes on
to make a whopper of his own, comparing Bush's lying about WMDs in Iraq with
Wilson entering WWI "without being attacked" so "should we conclude Wilson lied,
thousands died?" Well, we might have concluded that if Wilson had sent 15,000
troops to Europe and 150,000 to India, while telling Americans that India was
amassing an enormous army with advanced weaponry that was going to invade
California.

The operative words in the quote "those who cannot learn from history are doomed
to repeat it" are "learn from." Mr. Hanson, by excusing every mistake made in
the Iraq war by providing examples of mistakes made in previous wars, proves
that he has not learned from history at all. "Learning" means recognizing those
past mistakes and not making them in the future, not just excusing them when
they happen with platitudes like "history should offer us solace that we are
never really alone."

Chris Weigant, Brookdale

There is a professional sports team in San Jose that averages over 13,000 people
for 16 home games every year (not including the playoffs). These are actual
people paying money to see quality professional soccer, versus the delusion of
the A's moving to San Jose. The Earthquakes have won 2 championship cups in
their 10 years and play incredibly exciting soccer before dedicated fans. With
the quakes closer than ever to moving, it is time for the City council and
County board members to wake up and ask themselves, "Why do so many different
cities want our team?" A top 10 city, where many of its residents grow up
playing soccer, needs this team, for family fun, for the economy, and for its
identity.

Phil Noteware, San Jose

I recall Goddard's first rocket experiments when I was a child 70 years ago
reading science fiction pulps. From that time forward up to the space shuttle,
we knew that the propulsion module had to be underneath the passenger module.
The placement of the spaceship beside the propulsion module was insane for
exactly the reason our shuttle program is in trouble today.

Had the shuttlecraft been placed above the boosters, foam and other debris could
fall off without any effect on the shuttlecraft. And we would not have lost the
previous ship and crew two years ago. I suspect this was done to avoid building
a taller hanger to berth it in.

Charles Wilkes, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 1, 2005 Monday

Federal gang sweep nabs 13 in Bay Area

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

LENGTH: 185 words


Thirteen alleged gang members from the Bay Area, a majority of them from Mexico
and Nicaragua, are facing deportation after being arrested as part of a recent
nationwide anti-gang sweep by a federal immigration agency.

Members of the notorious Norteno and Sureno gangs in San Francisco and Sonoma
County were among 582 arrested in the past two weeks in 27 states around the
country in ''Operation Community Shield,'' an initiative by Immigration &
Customs Enforcement (ICE).

''It's a fairly serious problem,'' said ICE special agent Dan Lane. ''We have a
robust gang population.''

When the program started earlier this year, it had one target: the MS-13 gang,
or Mara Salvatrucha, a violent gang rooted in Central America. But since then,
the operation has grown to include all criminal street gangs and prison gangs
with foreign-born members.

ICE officials said a majority of the gang members arrested are being detained on
immigration violations. Some also have pending felony charges, both state and
federal, and prior felony convictions.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 2, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

U.S. anti-gang sweep nets 13 from Bay Area

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 554 words


Thirteen alleged gang members from the Bay Area, a majority of them from Mexico
and Nicaragua, are facing deportation after being arrested as part of a recent
nationwide anti-gang sweep by a federal immigration agency.

Members of the notorious Norteno and Sureno gangs in San Francisco and Sonoma
County were among 582 arrested in the past two weeks in 27 states in Operation
Community Shield, an initiative by U.S. Immigration & Customs Enforcement (ICE).

''It's a fairly serious problem,'' said Dan Lane, an ICE special agent in San
Francisco. ''We have a robust gang population.''

When the program started earlier this year, it had one target: the MS-13 gang,
or Mara Salvatrucha, a violent gang rooted in Central America and reported to be
operating across the country, including in California. But since then, the
operation has grown to include all criminal street gangs and prison gangs with
foreign-born members.

''We have a message for violent street-gang members in America: Stopping your
violence and criminal activities is high on ICE's list of priorities,'' said
Marcy Forman, director of investigations for the agency, during a Monday press
conference in Washington, D.C.

ICE agents, working with local and state police, federal agents and local
anti-gang task forces, targeted 54 violent street gangs. Since February, the
operation has resulted in the arrests of 1,050 gang leaders, members and
associates, including arrests made last month.

Lane said teaming up with local law enforcement ''has worked well,'' because ICE
has broad immigration authority that other agencies do not.

''Local gang task forces are often very frustrated,'' Lane said. ''They know who
the people are. They have very strong suspicions. But so often they're stymied.

''What ICE brings to the table is the unique authority to remove somebody on
immigration violations. It's a very good marriage.''

Eleven of the 13 arrested from the Bay Area are members of Sureno. One is a
Norteno member, and another, a member of a gang called Arab Pride, officials
said. Three are U.S. citizens. All of them are men, ranging in age from 18 to
33.

ICE officials said a majority of the gang members arrested are being detained in
San Francisco and Sonoma County on immigration violations. Some also have
pending state and federal felony charges of drug and weapons possession and
previous felony convictions.

Operation Community Shield is continuing, and although the latest sweep did not
include arrests in the South Bay, Lane said, ''It doesn't mean we won't be
making our way down there.''

San Jose has a gang prevention task force, chaired by the mayor and comprised of
representatives from the community and the police department. But it does not
have a partnership with ICE on Operation Community Shield. A spokesman for San
Jose police did not return telephone messages.

Henry Nguyen, a member of the task force and a truancy case manager for the
Crosscultural Community Services Agency in San Jose, said every effort to
prevent gang involvement in young people helps.

''We try our best to reduce kids' participation in gangs,'' said Nguyen, who
track kids who are truants. ''We do that by getting them off the streets and
back into schools.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 7, 2005 Sunday PS1 EDITION

More steps to follow before visa available

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 675 words


QMy mother is a legal resident and I am a naturalized citizen. We both
petitioned for a residency visa for my sister, who lives in Nicaragua, in
November 2001. A week ago I received a letter from immigration saying her visa
number had become current. How long will my sister have to wait until she's able
to enter the United States?

Mirna Sanchez
San Jose

AThe National Visa Center will send you a bill for the visa fee, and after it's
paid, you will have to fill out some more documents to update the file, said
Raquel Brown, an accredited representative with Catholic Charities in San Jose.

Once you turn in the paperwork, your sister will have to wait about six to nine
months to be called to an interview in the U.S. consulate or embassy, Brown
said. If her visa is approved at that interview, she can travel the same day,
Brown said.

Sibling Petitions, LIFE and 241 (i): A number of immigrants who are now
naturalized U.S. citizens have received some good news in the mail recently:
Their family-based petitions for visas for siblings, also called I-130s, have
been approved by the federal immigration agency, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

Many of those immigrants have turned to SIREN -- the Services, Immigrant Rights
and Education Network, based in San Jose -- to inquire about the approval
letters from USCIS. Immigration program workers at Catholic Charities in San
Jose also received queries.

Those who received notices are immigrants who filed petitions on behalf of their
siblings under 2000 legislation called the LIFE Act, or Legal Immigration Family
Equity Act, which was aimed at thousands of undocumented immigrants denied the
chance to legalize their status under the 1986 Immigration Reform Act.

One other provision of LIFE Act, 241 (i) allows an immigrant who qualifies for
family-based visas to remain in the United States instead of applying in the
home countries.

But don't be fooled, federally accredited immigration experts say. The notices
bring good news, but you'll have to wait a very long time -- 18 years in some
cases -- for it to turn into even better news.

''What is confusing about these notices now is that individuals have waited such
a long time to hear about their applications, four years for most people,'' said
Martha Campos, director of immigrant services at SIREN.

''The wait has been so long that people think this is it, it's time to apply,''
Campos said. ''But in reality, the waiting game will only continue.''

Robert Yabes, immigration program director for Catholic Charities in San Jose,
said the notices do not mean that an immigrant may now apply for permanent
residency or a green card. Yabes likened the process to ''an individual getting
a place in line to waitto apply for a visa.''

The availability of those visas -- based on government quotas for countries --
depend on when the application was first filed. This priority date marks your
place in the line.

The approval notices do notchange the status of immigrants waiting for visas,
Yabes said, and do not mean they can apply for a work permit.

Immigrants calling SIREN have also asked if they can now leave the country and
vacation or visit family abroad. Simply, the answer is no, Casillas said.

Immigrants who've received a notice can calculate the date when they will be
able to apply for permanent residency on the U.S. State Department Web site,
www.travel.state.gov/visa/frvi/bulletin/bulletin_2573.html

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.
Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News, Newsroom, 750
Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You MUST include your name, daytime
phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 7, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

More steps to follow before visa available

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 675 words


QMy mother is a legal resident and I am a naturalized citizen. We both
petitioned for a residency visa for my sister, who lives in Nicaragua, in
November 2001. A week ago I received a letter from immigration saying her visa
number had become current. How long will my sister have to wait until she's able
to enter the United States?

Mirna Sanchez
San Jose

AThe National Visa Center will send you a bill for the visa fee, and after it's
paid, you will have to fill out some more documents to update the file, said
Raquel Brown, an accredited representative with Catholic Charities in San Jose.

Once you turn in the paperwork, your sister will have to wait about six to nine
months to be called to an interview in the U.S. consulate or embassy, Brown
said. If her visa is approved at that interview, she can travel the same day,
Brown said.

Sibling Petitions, LIFE and 241 (i): A number of immigrants who are now
naturalized U.S. citizens have received some good news in the mail recently:
Their family-based petitions for visas for siblings, also called I-130s, have
been approved by the federal immigration agency, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services.

Many of those immigrants have turned to SIREN -- the Services, Immigrant Rights
and Education Network, based in San Jose -- to inquire about the approval
letters from USCIS. Immigration program workers at Catholic Charities in San
Jose also received queries.

Those who received notices are immigrants who filed petitions on behalf of their
siblings under 2000 legislation called the LIFE Act, or Legal Immigration Family
Equity Act, which was aimed at thousands of undocumented immigrants denied the
chance to legalize their status under the 1986 Immigration Reform Act.

One other provision of LIFE Act, 241 (i) allows an immigrant who qualifies for
family-based visas to remain in the United States instead of applying in the
home countries.

But don't be fooled, federally accredited immigration experts say. The notices
bring good news, but you'll have to wait a very long time -- 18 years in some
cases -- for it to turn into even better news.

''What is confusing about these notices now is that individuals have waited such
a long time to hear about their applications, four years for most people,'' said
Martha Campos, director of immigrant services at SIREN.

''The wait has been so long that people think this is it, it's time to apply,''
Campos said. ''But in reality, the waiting game will only continue.''

Robert Yabes, immigration program director for Catholic Charities in San Jose,
said the notices do not mean that an immigrant may now apply for permanent
residency or a green card. Yabes likened the process to ''an individual getting
a place in line to waitto apply for a visa.''

The availability of those visas -- based on government quotas for countries --
depend on when the application was first filed. This priority date marks your
place in the line.

The approval notices do notchange the status of immigrants waiting for visas,
Yabes said, and do not mean they can apply for a work permit.

Immigrants calling SIREN have also asked if they can now leave the country and
vacation or visit family abroad. Simply, the answer is no, Casillas said.

Immigrants who've received a notice can calculate the date when they will be
able to apply for permanent residency on the U.S. State Department Web site,
www.travel.state.gov/visa/frvi/bulletin/bulletin_2573.html

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.
Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News, Newsroom, 750
Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You MUST include your name, daytime
phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 16, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Cleric ordered deported;
PAKISTANI MAN DECIDES AGAINST FIGHTING CHARGE

BYLINE: By David Kravets; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 359 words


A Pakistani cleric facing immigration charges agreed Monday to be deported to
his home country, a week after being accused of plotting to open a terrorism
camp in Lodi to train followers to kill Americans.

Shabbir Ahmed, 39, will be deported on charges unrelated to terrorism:
overstaying his religious-work visa while heading a mosque in Lodi, an
agricultural city of 62,000 about 30 miles south of Sacramento.

Defense lawyer Saad Ahmad said there was no connection between Ahmed and
terrorism and that his client decided not to contest the immigration charge
because he could have been incarcerated for years fighting the allegations.

Ahmed was one of five men from the mosque who were arrested in June after
federal authorities infiltrated the Pakistani community in Lodi and secretly
recorded dozens of conversations over three years. None of the detainees has
been charged with crimes of terrorism.

The announcement in a tiny San Francisco courtroom came a week after immigration
judge Anthony Murry called Ahmed a ''danger to the community'' and refused to
set bail.

On Monday, the judge said, ''Mr. Ahmed is ordered removed to Pakistan.''

While Ahmed faced only the immigration charge, federal authorities were able to
use the witness stand to level much stronger allegations against him.

An FBI agent testified last week that Ahmed was acting as an intermediary for
Osama bin Laden and other terrorists. The agent refused to testify whether Ahmed
was a member of a terror group, saying that information was classified.

With Ahmed's decision, three of the five men detained are headed home to
Pakistan. Muhammad Adil Khan, another Lodi religious leader, and his son,
Muhammad Hassan Adil Khan, quit contesting immigration charges and were deported
Monday.

The other men arrested, Hamid Hayat and his father, Umer, are charged in
criminal court with lying to government authorities.

The son is charged with lying to the FBI about attending a terrorism camp in
Pakistan in 2003 and 2004. His father is charged with lying when he denied his
son had attended such a camp. Both have pleaded not guilty in Sacramento federal
court.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 16, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Muslim cleric will be deported;
PAKISTANI ACCUSED OF TERRORISM PLOTS

BYLINE: By David Kravets; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 557 words


A Pakistani cleric facing immigration charges agreed Monday to be deported to
his home country, a week after being accused of plotting to open a terrorism
camp in Lodi to train followers to kill Americans.

Shabbir Ahmed, 39, will be deported on charges unrelated to terrorism:
overstaying his religious-work visa while heading a mosque in Lodi, an
agricultural city of 62,000 about 30 miles south of Sacramento.

Defense lawyer Saad Ahmad said there was no connection between Ahmed and
terrorism and that his client decided not to contest the immigration charge
because he could have been incarcerated for years fighting the allegations.

Ahmed was one of five men from the mosque who were arrested in June after
federal authorities infiltrated the Pakistani community in Lodi and secretly
recorded dozens of conversations over three years. None of the detainees has
been charged with crimes of terrorism.

The announcement in a tiny San Francisco courtroom came a week after immigration
judge Anthony Murry called Ahmed a ''danger to the community'' and refused to
set bail.

On Monday, the judge said, ''Mr. Ahmed is ordered removed to Pakistan.''

While Ahmed faced only the immigration charge, federal authorities were able to
use the witness stand to level much stronger allegations against him.

An FBI agent testified last week that Ahmed was acting as an intermediary for
Osama bin Laden and other terrorists. The agent refused to testify whether Ahmed
was a member of a terror group, saying that information was classified.

Ronald LeFevre, chief counsel for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement in San Francisco, said it served America's interest to have him
deported, rather than charged criminally.

''We have a range of tools at our disposal to protect the citizens of the United
States. Prosecution is one of those tools,'' he said. ''We have chosen to use
another tool that we believe effective and efficient -- that is to remove Mr.
Ahmed.''

With Ahmed's decision, three of the five men detained are headed home to
Pakistan. Muhammad Adil Khan, another Lodi religious leader, and his son,
Muhammad Hassan Adil Khan, quit contesting immigration charges and were deported
Monday.

FBI agent Gary Schaaf testified last week that Muhammad Adil Khan got orders
from Jalaluddin Hoqqani, a Taliban commander tied to bin Laden, and passed them
to Ahmed.

Schaaf provided few details of the training camp that was alleged to be part of
a planned religious school in Lodi, but said ''individuals would be taught . . .
to commit acts of violence against the U.S.''

The other men arrested, Hamid Hayat and his father, Umer, are charged in
criminal court with lying to government authorities.

The son is charged with lying to the FBI about attending a terrorism camp in
Pakistan in 2003 and 2004. His father is charged with lying when he denied his
son had attended such a camp. Both have pleaded not guilty in Sacramento federal
court.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement attorney Paul Nishiie also accused
Ahmed of inciting violence against the /United States while he was a cleric in
Islamabad immediately following the 2001 terror attacks.

Ahmed acknowledged he had preached violence, but said his view of the /United
States changed after he arrived in January 2002 on a three-year religious work
visa.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           August 17, 2005 Wednesday

We should be attracting world's top talent to America

BYLINE: By William T. Archey

LENGTH: 783 words


In the swirling debate over immigration, one of its most essential components is
often overlooked in Washington, D.C., despite being of critical importance to
Silicon Valley and other high-tech regions.

For all the editorials that argue for or against granting amnesty to low-wage
workers, very few address the issue of high-wage, high-skilled immigration. For
all the television pundits who link illegal immigration to national security,
none discusses the implications to our economic security of keeping the best and
brightest minds on the planet out of the United States.

Since Sept. 11, the United States has understandably increased the barriers for
foreign nationals to enter and remain in this country. But the unfortunate and
largely unintended side effect of these barriers is that many of the people
being kept out are talented individuals who would have come here to study, work,
conduct research, start companies, and create wealth and American jobs.

Many who are here face bureaucratic barriers in renewing their visas and are
returning to their home countries. And many of the ones in the pipeline are no
longer even considering the United States.

If this had happened 20 years ago, the United States would have suffered, but
the individual would have lost even more. Going back to or staying in China,
India or Eastern Europe at that time meant living in a country where your skills
and creativity would wither on the vine.

But today, in a world that has become increasingly flat, as Thomas Friedman puts
it, the only loser in this equation is the United States. With the global spread
of free markets and virtually free telecommunications, a bright individual can
choose any number of countries in which to earn a degree, found a company or
apply for a patent. Losing them means we lose their contributions to our
economic vitality and national security.

America's dirty little secret is that it has rarely produced enough
American-born workers with the requisite science and engineering background to
support its knowledge economy. Foreign-born talent has been our workforce safety
valve for as long as this country has existed, and particularly over the past 60
years. Given the paucity of American youth currently pursuing science and
engineering careers, the problem is becoming even more acute.

One of every five U.S. scientists and engineers is foreign-born. Over half of
all doctoral engineering and math degrees awarded in the United States go to
foreign nationals whose financial support helps make these programs economically
viable. Yet for two consecutive years, foreign applications to American graduate
engineering programs have declined, by 36 percent in 2004 and an additional 7
percent in 2005, according to the Council of Graduate Schools.

They can't get the visas. They get the feeling they aren't wanted here anymore.
And frankly, they have plenty of alternatives in Europe, Canada, Australia or
their home countries. Even historically xenophobic Japan has loosened the rules
to allow in more high-skilled foreign nationals.

The United States has taken a step in the opposite direction, and the cumulative
effect of visa restrictions against the world's most highly skilled talent is
taking its toll. H-1B visas are reserved for high-skilled workers entering the
United States on a temporary basis. They are subject to a congressionally
mandated cap. On Aug. 12, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
announced that the cap had already been reached for fiscal year 2006. This means
that no new visas will be made available until October 2006.

When the cap is hit, and companies cannot find the specialized skills they need
from American workers, the only viable alternative is to move to where the
workers are, to relocate operations abroad. We can accuse these companies of
being greedy and treacherous, or we can support public policy that encourages
the best and brightest to come to us instead of forcing us to go to them.

America prides itself on being a nation of immigrants, and rightly so. Over our
entire history, and especially in the last 60 years, the United States has
benefited from an influx of the brightest minds on the planet. We cannot afford
to restrict access to such talented people at precisely the time when they have
tremendous opportunities elsewhere.

So let's resolve the issue of low-skilled immigration and move on with equal
urgency to the separate issue of high-skilled immigration, the source of so much
of our technological pre-eminence and economic prosperity.

WILLIAM T. ARCHEY is president and CEO of AeA, formerly the American Electronics
Association, a trade group representing technology firms.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     August 17, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

We should be attracting world's top talent to America

BYLINE: By William T. Archey

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 783 words


In the swirling debate over immigration, one of its most essential components is
often overlooked in Washington, D.C., despite being of critical importance to
Silicon Valley and other high-tech regions.

For all the editorials that argue for or against granting amnesty to low-wage
workers, very few address the issue of high-wage, high-skilled immigration. For
all the television pundits who link illegal immigration to national security,
none discusses the implications to our economic security of keeping the best and
brightest minds on the planet out of the United States.

Since Sept. 11, the United States has understandably increased the barriers for
foreign nationals to enter and remain in this country. But the unfortunate and
largely unintended side effect of these barriers is that many of the people
being kept out are talented individuals who would have come here to study, work,
conduct research, start companies, and create wealth and American jobs.

Many who are here face bureaucratic barriers in renewing their visas and are
returning to their home countries. And many of the ones in the pipeline are no
longer even considering the United States.

If this had happened 20 years ago, the United States would have suffered, but
the individual would have lost even more. Going back to or staying in China,
India or Eastern Europe at that time meant living in a country where your skills
and creativity would wither on the vine.

But today, in a world that has become increasingly flat, as Thomas Friedman puts
it, the only loser in this equation is the United States. With the global spread
of free markets and virtually free telecommunications, a bright individual can
choose any number of countries in which to earn a degree, found a company or
apply for a patent. Losing them means we lose their contributions to our
economic vitality and national security.

America's dirty little secret is that it has rarely produced enough
American-born workers with the requisite science and engineering background to
support its knowledge economy. Foreign-born talent has been our workforce safety
valve for as long as this country has existed, and particularly over the past 60
years. Given the paucity of American youth currently pursuing science and
engineering careers, the problem is becoming even more acute.

One of every five U.S. scientists and engineers is foreign-born. Over half of
all doctoral engineering and math degrees awarded in the United States go to
foreign nationals whose financial support helps make these programs economically
viable. Yet for two consecutive years, foreign applications to American graduate
engineering programs have declined, by 36 percent in 2004 and an additional 7
percent in 2005, according to the Council of Graduate Schools.

They can't get the visas. They get the feeling they aren't wanted here anymore.
And frankly, they have plenty of alternatives in Europe, Canada, Australia or
their home countries. Even historically xenophobic Japan has loosened the rules
to allow in more high-skilled foreign nationals.

The United States has taken a step in the opposite direction, and the cumulative
effect of visa restrictions against the world's most highly skilled talent is
taking its toll. H-1B visas are reserved for high-skilled workers entering the
United States on a temporary basis. They are subject to a congressionally
mandated cap. On Aug. 12, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
announced that the cap had already been reached for fiscal year 2006. This means
that no new visas will be made available until October 2006.

When the cap is hit, and companies cannot find the specialized skills they need
from American workers, the only viable alternative is to move to where the
workers are, to relocate operations abroad. We can accuse these companies of
being greedy and treacherous, or we can support public policy that encourages
the best and brightest to come to us instead of forcing us to go to them.

America prides itself on being a nation of immigrants, and rightly so. Over our
entire history, and especially in the last 60 years, the United States has
benefited from an influx of the brightest minds on the planet. We cannot afford
to restrict access to such talented people at precisely the time when they have
tremendous opportunities elsewhere.

So let's resolve the issue of low-skilled immigration and move on with equal
urgency to the separate issue of high-skilled immigration, the source of so much
of our technological pre-eminence and economic prosperity.

WILLIAM T. ARCHEY is president and CEO of AeA, formerly the American Electronics
Association, a trade group representing technology firms.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 18, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Deported Muslim cleric, son arrive in Pakistan

BYLINE: By the Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 332 words


A Muslim cleric from Lodi and his son, held on immigration violations since they
were questioned during an investigation of another Lodi man's alleged
participation at an Al-Qaida training camp, arrived in Pakistan late Tuesday,
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Wednesday.

Mohammad Adil Khan, 47, and his son Mohammad Hasan Adil, 19 -- who the FBI
alleged were part of a communications link to deliver terrorist assignments to a
sleeper agent in Lodi -- were voluntarily deported and left the United States on
Monday, according to a statement released by ICE.

''Mr. Khan's removal from the United States is another victory for ICE in its
continuing effort to restore integrity to the nation's immigration system and to
protect those who might attempt to do us harm,'' San Francisco ICE Chief Counsel
Ronald Le Fevre said in the prepared statement.

Khan arrived in the United States in 2001 on a religious visa, invited by the
Lodi Muslim Mosque to open a school in the area. His son, then a minor, joined
him two years later. Khan's hope was to teach a moderate interpretation of
Islam, said his lawyer, Saad Ahmad.

In June, Khan and his son were arrested by federal agents as part of a sweep of
an alleged terror cell based in Lodi. Another father and son, Umer Hayat, 47,
and his son Hamid, 22, were arrested by the FBI. Investigators said the Hayats
lied about the son's training at a terrorist camp in Pakistan.

A second cleric, Shabbir Ahmed, 32, also of Pakistan, was arrested in the same
investigation, also accused of overstaying his visa. When Khan left the Lodi
mosque to work in Sacramento, Ahmed replaced him.

Ahmed denied the accusation, and contested the deportation order at his hearing
Aug. 10. But on Monday, he also agreed to leave the country voluntarily and
return to Pakistan.

Meanwhile, the Hayats remain in federal custody, charged with lying to federal
agents who questioned them about their connection with the terrorist training
camp.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 4, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

New citizen wants to reopen visa petition for now-married daughter

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words


QI petitioned for my daughter's visa in August 1995 and the application was
approved in September the same year. On April 12, 2003, I received a letter from
the National Visa Center requesting $65, the fee for the Affidavit of Support. I
paid immediately. On June 14, 2003, I received a letter from the immigration
service and I enclosed all pertinent papers, including the Affidavit of Support
forms. Unfortunately, I was laid off from my job at the time and I had no money
to pay the required fee for the petition.

By this time my daughter was already married and had one child. So, I decided
not to pursue the petition. I did not reply to the last letter that I received
from the immigration service. I became a citizen on May 22, 2003, and now have a
permanent job, and can afford to pay all the required fees.

My question is, do you think my case is still active? If so, is it possible to
reopen it? Also, if they open this again, can I include my daughter's husband
and her child?

Herminio O. Anchoriz
San Jose

AUnder the second preference immigrant visa classification, immigrants in the
United States can petition only for unmarried children, according to Robert
Yabes, immigration program director for Catholic Charities in San Jose.

For this reason, the immigrant visa petition you filed for your daughter was
effectively terminated when she married, Yabes said. It is no longer active and
cannot be reopened. Now that you are a U.S. citizen, you can file a new petition
under the third preference immigrant visa classification, or an I-130 Relative
Petition.

You can include your daughter's husband and child in this new petition, Yabes
said. The wait for a visa under the third preference could take many years.

QI became a citizen two years ago, and my wife also is a citizen. Our minor son
recently became a permanent legal resident. What does it take for my son to
become a citizen? What kind of paperwork do we need to fill out? What would it
cost? How long does it take?

Ignacio Ortega
South San Francisco

AUnder the Child Citizenship Act of 2000, your child is a U.S. citizen by
derivation, Yabes said. If you live in Santa Clara County, he can immediately
apply for a passport at the following locations:



 Santa Clara County Recorder's Office at 70 W. Hedding St., San Jose; (408)
299-5669.



 Willow Glen Station Passport Office at 1750 Meridian Ave., San Jose; (408)
723-6190.



 Or by calling the U.S. Postal Service at (800) 275-8777 for locations of the
local passport-issuing stations.

It's a good idea to call to ask about the requirements before you go, Yabes
said.

In addition, you can request information from the U.S. State Department Web
site: http://travel.state.gov/pass

You may also submit an application for a Certificate of Citizenship with the
local USCIS office at 1887 Monterey Road in San Jose, Yabes said. Applications
are accepted only by mail or through the drop box in front of the building. The
application form is N-600 and the fee is $240. The form can be downloaded at
www.uscis.gov

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.
 Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408)
288-8060. You can also write to us at Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury
News, Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You must include
your name, daytime phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 8, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Forum canceled on border project

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 648 words


A public forum scheduled next week at the Mexican Heritage Plaza in San Jose on
the controversial Minuteman Project was canceled Wednesday, after angry Latino
community leaders and immigrant advocates objected to the planned appearance of
Chris Simcox, Minuteman's organizer.

Calling the self-appointed, citizen border patrol a ''racist hate group,''
valley Mexican-American leaders said they took offense to Minuteman in the
community's cultural home, on Sept. 16, Mexican Independence Day.

The event, sponsored by the Commonwealth Club, was to feature Simcox and a
Minuteman volunteer; Art Torres, chairman of the California Democratic Party;
and Hans Johnson, a research analyst at the Public Policy Institute of
California.

It was billed as a public forum on an important issue of the day -- immigration
and the growing number of armed U.S. citizens patrolling the U.S.-Mexico border
in Arizona. The Minuteman Project, based in Tombstone, is recruiting volunteers
for border patrols in New Mexico, Texas and California. The Commonwealth Club
said the forum will be rescheduled and held in San Francisco.

''This vigilante group is openly racist particularly to Latinos,'' said Lucy
Hernandez, a member of Comite de Cesar Chavez, a San Jose civil rights group,
and one of 14 people who met last week with Marcela Davison Aviles, the plaza's
executive director.

Said Hernandez, ''Knowing the background of this group and have them come to our
community home, especially on our day of celebration, was offensive and
hurtful.''

But Aviles said the event was canceled at the plaza because of ''strong safety
concerns'' raised by the group she met with last Thursday. Aviles said she
received at least a dozen anonymous phone calls since then that threatened
disruption to the plaza.

During her meeting with Hernandez and others, Aviles said, ''They indicated that
if the plaza proceeded with the event, it was highly likely -- I'm paraphrasing
here -- there would be a large crowd and they wouldn't be able to guarantee the
consequences of their behavior.''

Aviles said she worried about the safety of people participating in the forum.

Alberto Carillo, a long-time community activist and an official of the League of
United Latin American Citizens, a national civil-rights group, said emotions ran
high during the meeting.

Carillo said he disagrees with Aviles' characterization. ''We were not
hostile,'' he said. ''We were angry. We felt insulted.''

''I said we would picket the event and I'd get close to 100 people,'' Carillo
said. ''Threaten? Nobody said that.''

Martha Campos, a program director at Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network, a San Jose non-profit group, said the forum's panel failed to include
immigrants and advocates, and legal experts who can talk about the implications
of the Minuteman Project on U.S. civil rights.

Simcox, who has appeared in debates with Latino leaders and immigrant advocates
in Arizona, did not reply to an e-mail request for an interview. A spokeswoman
for Minuteman, Connie Hair, also did not respond to an e-mail.

''Perhaps we were misunderstood as endorsing Mr. Simcox,'' said Gloria Duffy,
president and CEO of the Commonwealth Club of California, which sponsors 500
public forums a year.

Said Duffy, ''We see this as a service to the community.''

Aviles said she shared Duffy's view that a public dialogue on Minuteman would be
a good way to engage the community in a discussion of a subject that, although
it draws strong emotions, affects many people's lives.

''That's really where we were coming from,'' she said. ''By no stretch of the
imagination was the plaza supporting or advocating the position of the
Minuteman.''

In a Field Poll released today, a majority of California voters rejected the use
of citizen patrol.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      September 9, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Education levels rise for immigrants' kids;
THIRD-GENERATION MEXICAN-AMERICANS LAG IN COLLEGE GRADUATION RATES

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 377 words


The children and grandchildren of California's immigrants are achieving higher
levels of education than their parents and grandparents, according to a study
released Thursday by the Public Policy Institute of California.

''The main finding is a clear, positive message,'' said Deborah Reed, a PPIC
economist and one of the study's authors. ''It says that immigrants are making
strong progress from grandparents to parents to grandchildren.''

About 86 percent of second-generation children of immigrants earned high school
diplomas, compared with 25 percent among their parents, the study said. From the
first to the second generation, college completion rates rose to 12 percent from
3 percent.

But compared with other population and immigrant groups, third generation
Mexican-Americans have low college graduation rates, 11 percent, compared with
38 percent among whites and 46 percent among East and South Asians.

''When you think about what happens from the first to the second generation,
that's the story of the future of California,'' Reed said. ''This matters
because education is key to opportunity and progress.''

Using data from the 2000 U.S. census and the Current Population Survey, the
study found that more than half of California's young people -- the PPIC study
defines this group as ages 13-24 -- are first or second generation, with at
least one foreign-born parent. In this demographic group, more than two out of
five are Latino youths.

Reed said the low graduation rate among third-generation Mexican-Americans
raises policy concerns.

''They're not going to be prepared for the jobs of the future,'' she said.
''It's an issue for the state, it's an issue for them.''

San Jose's Almaden Elementary School Principal Miguel Montes said the
educational attainment improvements from one generation to the next are no
surprise.

But among young children of immigrants he sees -- many of whom are learning
English as a second language -- language development is the biggest challenge.

San Jose does better than most districts in the state in emphasizing classes in
language development, Montes said, but ''obviously we can do more,'' across
California.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury- news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 11, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

S.J. should denounce suppression of debate;
MINUTEMEN: LET MARKETPLACE OF IDEAS PREVAIL OVER MISGUIDED GROUP, NOT ANGRY
BACKLASH

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 631 words


Last week, San Jose's Mexican Heritage Plaza was poised to shine a spotlight on
the increasingly emotional debate over U.S. immigration policy -- specifically
over whether the Minutemen, a kind of vigilante border patrol operating in
Arizona, has a legitimate role in curbing illegal immigration.

The debate on Mexican Independence Day would have been historic for the plaza,
pitting Minuteman organizer Chris Simcox against an ardent critic, Art Torres, a
former state senator and chairman of the California Democratic Party.

But it has been silenced.

A group of Latino community leaders bullied the Plaza to cancel it, warning that
hundreds of protesters would show up and implying that there could be violence.

San Jose's leaders, Latino and otherwise, should denounce this suppression of
public debate and condemn the pattern of anonymous threats that leaders of both
sponsoring organizations have received. They'll have the perfect opportunity to
speak out later this month at the Plaza, whose leaders don't intend to let this
matter drop.

The immigration forum was exactly the kind of politically and culturally
relevant event the Plaza should be convening as a regional center of art and
learning. It was to be co-sponsored by the Commonwealth Club, whose programs
always are thoughtful and enlightening, and it would have been recorded for
broadcast later on a number of radio stations around the country.

Before scheduling the event, the Plaza and Commonwealth Club consulted Latino
public officials and were encouraged to proceed. But after announcing the plan,
plaza executive director Marcela Davison Aviles got wind of an e-mail string
critical of the event and called one of the participants to set up a meeting. To
Aviles' amazement, at least a dozen angry people showed up to demand that the
debate be canceled.

Jaime Alvarado, a leader of that group, says there was no intent to threaten.
(He offers his viewpoint elsewhere on this page.) But he does not dispute the
group's aim to suppress this particular debate. He says the presence of a
Minuteman at the Plaza would have been insulting to the community, likening the
group to the Ku Klux Klan.

The Minutemen watch the border and, if they see someone crossing illegally, call
the Border Patrol. They claim they don't apprehend anyone. But their presence
terrifies Mexican immigrant communities, where tales of abuse at their hands are
rampant, even though evidence is sparse.

We deplore the vigilante spirit of the Minutemen, some of whom are armed. We
hope to see them disbanded.

But they are not the Klan. They represent a point of view shared by many
Californians, including some Mexican-Americans, that immigration laws should be
better enforced and our borders secured. There has been talk of extending their
reach to other states, including California, although the governor fortunately
has said they aren't needed here.

This is a topic that won't go away, even if it's ignored. It cries out for
public debate. What better place than San Jose, a city known for its diversity
and tolerance?

Friday's event would have been an opportunity for leaders from the community,
the region and the state to confront Simcox's ideas and to counter his message
of militancy. It would have brought credit to the Mexican Heritage Plaza.

Later this month, the board and staff of the Plaza will schedule a press
conference to publicly restate their mission, which at least indirectly has been
challenged by this narrow-minded revolt. They hope elected officials and other
leaders, as well as community residents, will join them in a resolve to make the
Plaza a center of culture, a forum for political debate and a source of pride
not only for San Jose but for Latinos everywhere.

Who will stand with them?

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 16, 2005 Friday PS1 EDITION

Volunteers along border denounced;
RALLY HELD IN SAN JOSE

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 458 words


Anticipating the arrival next month of citizen militias at California's border
with Mexico, immigrants joined with religious, labor and community leaders
Thursday in vigils and rallies in San Jose and Oakland, to denounce the growing
number of armed volunteers conducting patrols.

The news conference outside the Santa Clara County government center in San Jose
was part of a statewide action to support California's immigrants, said the Rev.
Jon Pedigo, a San Jose pastor, ''and reject the racist-tinged'' rhetoric of
Minuteman, the group patrolling the Arizona border and preparing to start in
California in October.

Rallies also were held in Sacramento and San Diego.

''We believe there's no place in our community for people who terrorize people
because of their immigration status,'' said Salvador Bustamante, regional vice
president for the Service Employees International Union, Local 1877. ''We don't
need and want vigilante groups to take the law into their hands.''

Members of Local 1877 held placards that said, ''Vigilantism is a thing of the
past.''

San Jose community leaders urged the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors to
adopt a resolution against the Minuteman patrol and in support of immigrants.

Pedigo, a member of People Acting in Community Together, a faith-based group,
announced that next week he will deliver 3,000 letters from immigrants and their
families to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, urging him to renounce the civilian
border patrols.

''What we are advocating for is immigration reform that's comprehensive,
sensible, legal and safe,'' Pedigo said. ''The issues of immigration can't be
solved in an atmosphere in which there's nothing but racial profiling and
xenophobic attitudes.''

A county resolution, recommended this summer by the Santa Clara County Human
Relations Commission, is pending in committee and waiting recommendation for a
vote later by the board of supervisors. If it is approved by the board, Santa
Clara County could be the first municipal government in the state to take a
formal stand against the Minuteman Project.

''It really speaks well of Santa Clara County's long history of welcoming
immigrants,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network, a San Jose non-profit group. ''The resolutions
says they're not just talking the talk but also investing in services.''

In East Oakland, about 60 people, many of them immigrants, held a vigil in front
of Centro Legal de la Raza, an immigrant legal advocacy organization. The group
expressed solidarity with immigrants and attacked citizen border patrols as
''hate-filled, white supremacists.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 16, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Rallies denounce civilian border patrol

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman; Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647 words


Anticipating the arrival next month of citizen militias at California's border
with Mexico, immigrants joined with religious, labor and community leaders
Thursday in vigils and rallies in San Jose and Oakland, to denounce the growing
number of armed volunteers conducting patrols.

The news conference outside the Santa Clara County government center in San Jose
was part of a statewide action to support California's immigrants, said the Rev.
Jon Pedigo, a San Jose pastor, ''and reject the racist-tinged'' rhetoric of
Minuteman, the group patrolling the Arizona border and preparing to start in
California in October.

Rallies also were held in Sacramento and San Diego.

''We believe there's no place in our community for people who terrorize people
because of their immigration status,'' said Salvador Bustamante, regional vice
president for the Service Employees International Union, Local 1877. ''We don't
need and want vigilante groups to take the law into their hands.''

Members of Local 1877 held placards that said, ''Vigilantism is a thing of the
past.''

San Jose community leaders urged the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors to
adopt a resolution against the Minuteman patrol and in support of immigrants.

Pedigo, a member of a People Acting in Community Together, a faith-based local
group, announced that next week he will deliver 3,000 letters from immigrants
and their families to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, urging him to renounce the
civilian border patrols.

''What we are advocating for is immigration reform that's comprehensive,
sensible, legal, and safe,'' Pedigo said. ''The issues of immigration can't be
solved in an atmosphere in which there's nothing but racial profiling and
xenophobic attitudes.''

A county resolution, recommended this summer by the county's Santa Clara County
Human Relations Commission, is pending in committee and waiting recommendation
for a vote later by the board of supervisors. If it is approved by the board,
Santa Clara County could be the first municipal government in the state to take
a formal stand against the Minuteman Project.

''It really speaks well of Santa Clara County's long history of welcoming
immigrants,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant
Rights and Education Network, a San Jose non-profit group. ''The resolutions
says they're not just talking the talk but also investing in services.''

In East Oakland, about 60 people, many of them immigrants, held a vigil in front
of Centro Legal de la Raza, an immigrant legal advocacy organization. The group
expressed solidarity with immigrants and attacked citizen border patrols as
''hate-filled, white supremacists.''

''We're here to denounce the invasion of vigilantes on the border,'' said Maria
Jimenez, director Mujeres Unidad e y Activas, a Latina women's group in Oakland.
''The vigilantes are bringing terror and division to our communities.''

The Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition cited research by the national
faith-based organization, Center for New Communities and the Anti-Defamation
League, showing links between Minuteman and white supremacy groups.

In a previous interview, Tim Donnelly, Minuteman leader of recruitment in
California, dismissed the ''extremists'' characterizations.

''It's an incendiary accusation,'' said Donnelly, a San Bernardino businessman.
''It's utterly ridiculous. I'm organizing a group down here, and you'd be
astounded by the caliber and array of people volunteering.''

A public forum on the Minuteman originally scheduled for today at the Mexican
Heritage Plaza was canceled last week after Latino community leaders objected to
one of the panelists, Chris Simcox, the founder of the Minuteman.

The forum will be rescheduled at the plaza, but Simcox has not signed on to
participate.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 18, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Cooperation, not civilian patrols, the best way to solve border woes

BYLINE: By Bruno Figueroa

SECTION: PE; BRIEF; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 726 words


Mexico acknowledges that it is a sovereign faculty of any state to protect its
borders and to enforce its migratory legislation. As recognized by national and
international law, we are convinced that this task should be addressed
exclusively by the proper authorities.

That is precisely why the government of Mexico has condemned the activities of
civilians guarding the border and stopping undocumented migrants from entering
the United States.

While the United States government has already warned that it will act against
civilians participating in the arrest of other individuals, armed militias, who
proclaim that their mission is to ''spot and report'' immigrants, have brought
tension along the border, and may even trigger violence. In our view, actions of
this kind do not contribute to a long-term solution to the immigration issue and
could even endanger the security of our common border.

Serious concern

Border security is a very serious concern for the Mexican government. Drug
smugglers and human traffickers abuse honest people whose only desire is to find
jobs across the border. Moreover, laundered money and powerful weapons also flow
illegally from north to south, hence hampering law enforcement efforts in
Mexico.

The Mexican government has emphasized that the only way to address the economic,
social and security issues on our border is to frame all efforts on the basis of
shared responsibility. This explains why, during the past few years, cooperation
between Mexico and the United States has been actively and successfully pursued.
Presidents Vicente Fox and George W. Bush have agreed on the principle of shared
responsibility and declared that migration between our two countries should be
safe, orderly, legal and respectful of human rights.

Today, Mexico and the United States share an unprecedented level of cooperation
on security issues, based on information sharing agreements, frequent joint
undertakings and fluent intergovernmental communication. The launching of
''OASISS'' (Operation Against Smugglers Initiative on Safety and Security) a
month ago is the most recent example of that bilateral approach. This program
also includes campaigns in Mexico alerting would-be migrants about the dangers
of crossing into the United States by land, and training of migrant rescue crews
on both sides of the border.

Other excellent examples of this level of cooperation are the Border Alliance
set in motion by Mexico and the United States in 2002, aimed at the creation of
a modern and smart border, and the Security and Prosperity Partnership of North
America (SPP), launched last March by Fox, Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Paul
Martin.

This program sets an encompassing path for cooperation on economic and security
issues. The SPP entails an achievable set of goals addressing security against
external threats in North America, security of movements, and the prevention and
response to threats stemming from within the region, such as terrorism,
organized crime and human smuggling.

The SPP rests on the acknowledgment that security and competitiveness in the
region are intertwined.

Close neighbors

As friendly neighbors and partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement,
we see our ties growing stronger year after year. Twenty years ago, on Sept. 19,
1985, Mexico City experienced its deadliest earthquake. U.S. aid and assistance
arrived immediately and helped to save many lives, and the relief efforts from
Silicon Valley residents were substantial. More recently, in the aftermath of
Hurricane Katrina, Mexico extended a friendly and effective hand.

The Mexican government follows closely the different initiatives in Congress
that try to amend present immigration regulations, and believes that any program
or initiative should also take into consideration the fate of Mexican immigrants
already living in the United States.

Mexico is concerned that patrolling activities not undertaken by the proper
authorities, such as the so-called vigilantes, spark emotional responses
precisely at a time when dispassionate discourse and broad perspectives are
needed. The real debate should be focused on designing new, realistic,
longstanding immigration policies.

BRUNO FIGUEROA is consul general of the Mexican Consulate in San Jose. He wrote
this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     September 30, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Relief efforts slow to reach immigrants;
ILLEGAL STATUS, LACK OF TRANSLATORS HAMPER DELIVERY

BYLINE: By Jim Puzzanghera; Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Many Vietnamese-Americans and other Asian immigrants whose lives were shattered
by Hurricane Katrina aren't getting the help they need because of a lack of
translators and outreach, community leaders said at a congressional forum
Thursday.

''The government has failed to take into account the language barriers,'' said
Nguyen Dinh Thang, executive director of Boat People SOS, a Vietnamese-American
organization that is assisting hurricane evacuees in Houston.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency has few Vietnamese speakers in Houston
and rarely translates news releases and other information into Vietnamese, Thang
said. The American Red Cross has similar problems, others said.

The forum was organized by Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, head of the
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, who said he would seek a meeting
with top FEMA and Red Cross officials.

''FEMA and the Red Cross need to come into the 21st century in terms of the
kinds of communities we have in the United States,'' said Honda, who will visit
Houston next week.

FEMA and American Red Cross officials attending the forum said they were trying
to address the problems. Melissa Janssen, a congressional liaison from FEMA,
said the agency is working ''quite diligently'' to improve its foreign-language
outreach and encouraged non-profit organizations to apply for reimbursement
through their state governments, which are eligible for federal disaster aid.

And Rick Pogue, the interim chief diversity officer at the Red Cross, said his
organization is trying to address the lack of translators at shelters and call
centers with help from the American Translators Association. They have created a
new position called community client advocate and are recruiting and deploying
them. The first was a Korean-American who recruited 12 other Korean speakers in
Houston.

Gulf Coast areas devastated by the hurricane are home to about 53,000
Asian-Americans, including about 24,000 Vietnamese-Americans, according to the
2000 census. Biloxi, Miss., for example, is home to about 5,000
Vietnamese-Americans, many who work on shrimp boats in the Gulf of Mexico. More
than 1,000 Vietnamese-Americans were trapped on fishing boats during the storm.

Many Asian-Americans in the region are living in poverty and speak limited
English, census figures show, compounding the problems.

Thang and others working with Asian-American hurricane evacuees told stories of
people not getting relief benefits because they were unaware of programs or were
unable to properly fill out forms. Community organizations like the Vietnamese
Martyrs Church in Houston, which had about 289 people sleeping on its classroom
floors at one point, have stepped in to house evacuees and help them apply for
aid, but have been unable to get reimbursement for their efforts from the
government.

Michael Luu, an immigration lawyer from San Jose, has been to the region twice.
He organized 10 Vietnamese-speaking volunteers from Boat People SOS in Virginia
to go to Biloxi to help the Red Cross' one Vietnamese-speaking staffer there.
Seven more Vietnamese speakers from Oakland are heading to Biloxi this weekend.

''There's an outpouring of community members,'' Honda said.

Filipino immigrants in the region have learned of relief efforts through word of
mouth, said Jon Melegrito of the National Federation of Filipino American
Associations. Like other Asian-Americans, many of the immigrants sought shelter
and assistance from family members instead of looking to the government, he
said.

''We know these people have been living in the shadows, and these storms have
blown away the shadows,'' he said.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       October 2, 2005 Sunday PS1 EDITION

Green card application needs employer sponsor

BYLINE: By Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia; Mercury News

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words


QI am on an L-1 visa. I'd like to know whether it is possible to apply for
permanent residency status or a green card by myself, without going through the
employer.

David Levi
Palo Alto

AIn general, workers in the United States on L-1 visas may not sponsor
themselves for permanent residency, according to San Francisco lawyer Anja
Freudenthal. This type of visa always requires an employer sponsor, she said.

However, one exception applies to the green card applicants who have
''extraordinary ability,'' immigrants who have national and international
acclaim in science, arts, business, education or athletics. There is a lengthy
list of other criteria, but another way to view this is as a group of people who
are at the very top of their field, Freudenthal said.

One good example: If you have a Nobel Prize, you'd be considered to be of
''extraordinary ability.''

Freudenthal said one other option is investing in the United States. If you
invest $1 million in a business -- not real estate -- you can qualify for an
''investor green card,'' she said. In some cases, you may invest only $500,000
and qualify for one of these green cards, Freudenthal said, if you invest in a
rural area in the United States, or a place where there is high unemployment.

QI've been putting off becoming a citizen, but I'm soon going to fill out the
naturalization forms. How much will it cost me? What is involved?

Susana Flores
Sunnyvale

AIt costs $320 to submit the N-400 form, plus $70 for fingerprinting, for a
total of $390. However, beginning Oct. 26, the total fee increases to $400 ($330
for the form, $70 for fingerprinting), said Adriana Gonzalez, director of the
Immigration and Citizenship Program at the Center for Employment Training in San
Jose.

You can download the form from: http://uscis.gov/

graphics/formsfee/forms

/n-400.htm.

The $390 payment, and two identical 2-inch by 2-inch color photographs (passport
style), are due with the application. Once your application begins to be
processed, which could take a few months, CIS will send you to a fingerprint
center.

It's taking about six to eight months to become a citizen, Gonzalez said.

USCIS informational workshop: A workshop on ''Overview of Naturalization'' will
be held in Cupertino today from 2 to 4 p.m. It will be in English with Chinese
translation at Good Samaritan United Methodist Church, 19624 Homestead Road,
Cupertino.

A second workshop, in English, will be held Oct. 15 from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. at
the King Library, Suites A&B, 150 E. San Fernando St., in San Jose.

The workshop is free, but call the reservation line, (408) 918-3986 to save a
seat.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 24, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A LITTLE SURPRISE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 407 words

[Caption only]
LATE SALSA SUPERSTAR WAS SUSPECTED OF BEING A COMMUNIST IN THE 1950S
Salsa queen Celia Cruz was removed from a U.S. list of suspected communists in
1965 after she performed and raised money for groups trying to overthrow Cuban
President Fidel Castro, according to newly released immigration documents.

U.S. officials suspected in the 1950s that Cruz, who died last year of a brain
tumor, supported Castro's communist government. She was refused a visa at least
twice starting in 1952 because U.S. law at the time forbade entry to foreigners
affiliated with communists. Documents obtained by the Miami Herald for a story
Thursday show she was finally granted permission to stay permanently in the
United States in 1965.

"The record indicates that in July 1960 she fled as a defector from the
Communist regime of Cuba," according to an Oct. 28, 1965, immigration service
memorandum. "Since that time she has actively cooperated with anti-Communist,
anti-Castro organizations through artistic performances and by campaigning for
funds for those organizations."

Cruz kept her blacklisting a secret, and her husband, trumpeter Pedro Knight,
has said she never mentioned it to him.

Photographers as pigs: When Sir Elton John has a snit fit, he has one befitting
royalty. Take Thursday's incident in Taipei. John, who performed Thursday night
in Taiwan's capital city, arrived at the airport only to be ambushed by a mob of
photographers and TV crews, creating a scene of medieval mayhem in which John
was surrounded. The singer said he was angry that the police did not protect him
"from the ensuing chaos." Later, at his show, he said the airport photogs were
the rudest people he's ever met during his travels. So rude were they that they
pushed the erstwhile gentle John to get all porcine, calling them, "rude, vile
pigs."

Trouble in paradise?: In troubling, nay, potentially apocalyptic news, the New
York Post says there may be trouble in the most super-duper household in
America. Apparently there is tension inside the paradise known as the Jessica
Simpson-Nick Lachey marriage -- which may lead the "Newlyweds" stars to become
Newly Divorced. (Would MTV film that, too?) It's said that Lachey doesn't get
enough respect and support for his own career from Simpson and her parents, who
aren't even that nice to him. Lachey's rep denies it all. We counsel folks to
light a candle and send them happy thoughts.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: People in the News

GRAPHIC: Photos (5);
PHOTO: STEVE FENN -- ABC
A LITTLE SURPRISE: "The View" co-host Elisabeth Hasselbeck, center, is saluted
by co-hosts, from left, Meredith Vieira, Star Jones, Joy Behar and Barbara
Walters after she revealed on the show Thursday that she and her husband,
Washington Redskins quarterback Tim Hasselbeck, are expecting a child in April.
The former "Survivor: The Australian Outback" competitor said they don't want to
know the child's sex.
PHOTO: Cruz
PHOTO: John
PHOTO: Simpson
PHOTO: Lachey

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 24, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' ROLES PUT IN SPOTLIGHT

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 317 words


A day after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed a bill that would have allowed
undocumented immigrants to obtain driver's licenses, immigrant advocates
released a new report Thursday touting the contributions of immigrants to
Silicon Valley's economy.

Many kicked off the news conference in San Jose by denouncing the governor and
his decision.

"We need to educate him," said Assemblyman Manny Diaz, D-San Jose. "By vetoing
the bill, he showed he does not understand the immigrant community."

The report, commissioned by Working Partnerships USA, a San Jose collaborative
of labor unions, religious groups and community organizations, makes no new
findings on the economic impact of immigration.

Rather, it distills and gleans from a number of similar studies done in recent
years and makes similar conclusions: Immigrants are major contributors to
innovation and development of high technology in Silicon Valley, and they play
an important role in sustaining the economy.

"It's ludicrous that we are having a conversation about whether a group of
people who pay taxes and contribute to the state economy should have a right to
a driver's license," said Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, executive director of Working
Partnerships.

Marta Donayre, an emigrant from Brazil, said the report can help spotlight the
role that immigrants play in the state and Silicon Valley in public policy
discussions such as the driver's license bill.

"There's fear mongering when it comes to issues about immigration, and the
driver's license issue was no exception," said Donayre of Sunnyvale.

Louise Auerhahn, co-author of the report, "Economic Effects of Immigration,"
said giving all California residents the right to a driver's license "would have
been a positive step," not just for immigrants but also for public safety.

"People still need to get to work and take their children to schools, " she
said.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 1, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNDOCUMENTED NEED A LICENSE NOT A BLACKLIST;
DRIVING TO JOBS THAT AMERICANS DON'T WANT

BYLINE: JOE RODRIGUEZ column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 633 words


After reading the headlines, I called Soledad, an illegal Mexican immigrant I
know who drives without a driver's license in San Jose. Educated and articulate,
she lives with her two children, ages 12 and 16, in the city's working-class
Arbuckle neighborhood. We spoke in Spanish.

Hola, Sol! Como esta?

"Good, Joe, gracias. I just moved into a studio apartment. I was staying at my
sister's place for a while, but having one of your own is so much better."

Listen, did you hear the news? Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger rejected the latest
bill to grant drivers' licenses to undocumented immigrants.

"No, I hadn't heard, but I'm not surprised."

Let me fill you in. This bill included a lot of security precautions the
governor demanded from Latino legislators and the Democratic leadership. You
would have been checked out by the FBI first. You would have been fingerprinted.
But the governor insisted the licenses be a different color or have a
distinguishing mark.

"Like the Star of David," Soledad said. "I heard about that one."

Well, it was actually a bunch of liberal Latinos and American Jews who said the
governor's idea reminded them of the patches the Germans forced Jews to wear
during World War II. They hurt the governor's feelings.

"It doesn't matter," she said. "It would still be discrimination. Listen, I work
just like everyone else. I need a license so I can drive to work without fear of
getting stopped and losing my car."

You still have that little Toyota?

"Yes, and it's the cleanest car on the road," she said. "I can't risk getting
stopped for any reason."

OK, so about the licenses.

"All I need is a license, a simple permit to drive without fear," she said. "A
California driver's license is not supposed to be an identification card. It's a
permit! I have another ID that says who I am. It's a national ID card from the
Mexican consulate here in San Jose."

You're right about all that. America doesn't have, or want, a national ID card.
The Constitution doesn't mention one. But tell me, what's so bad about having an
FBI file on you and a driver's license that looks a little different?

Soledad didn't hesitate to answer.

"Why would any sane, normal person put themselves on a government blacklist?"

Well. OK. But you'd at least be able to buy auto insurance and take driver's ed
classes.

"I already have insurance," she said. "And I'm already a good driver."

Yes, I remember the day we drove around town last July. Never felt safer on the
road. I even wrote a column about it. But you didn't have car insurance back
then.

"I bought it through a relative, same one who registered the car in his name,"
she said.

(By now I was becoming a little exasperated. Geez, these undocumented Mexicans
are resourceful. I wish American and Mexican politicians were as determined to
negotiate a new immigration deal for filling jobs Americans truly don't want.)

Sol, I have to tell you, I was hoping that illegal immigrant drivers would agree
to anything, anything short of numbers tattooed on their forearms. Just to call
the governor's bluff, you know.

"I think a lot of undocumented people would agree to anything just to get the
licenses," she said. "It's something to think about. But I really think he's
made up his mind -- no licenses."

I guess you're right. So tell me, what's new in your life? Are you still working
the two fast-food restaurant jobs?

"Yes, that struggle continues," she said. "But the good news is that my daughter
is one of the top students at her high school. They're taking her to Boston,
Washington and New York to visit colleges. The problem is, she's also
undocumented and might have to go to college in Mexico."

Soledad, I wouldn't worry about that. For some reason, I think that kid will
wind up at Harvard.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 2, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHOOTING FALLOUT;
BOSNIAN EMIGRES: KILLING OF COMMUNITY MEMBER BY SAN JOSE OFFICER SPOTLIGHTS
MYRIAD PROBLEMS FACING IMMIGRANTS TO SILICON VALLEY

BYLINE: YOMI S. WRONGE, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 891 words


Inside the cozy Adriatic Cafe on Bascom Avenue, a feeling of the old is
replicated.

Croatian chocolate shares shelf space with coffee, newspapers and movies from
various Balkan republics. A grand painting of Sveti Stefan, an exclusive resort
on the coast of Serbia and Montenegro, hangs next to -- but doesn't overshadow
-- a T-shirt bearing the ethnic Bosnian flag.

"This cafe represents old Yugoslavia, not divided by religion or ethnicity,"
says Steve Smith, a former Scotts Valley police officer who spent a year keeping
peace with an international police force in southeast Bosnia-Herzegovina, scene
of some of the worst atrocities committed during theBalkan wars.

Smith finishes his potent Turkish coffee and heads out to the enclosed patio,
where five Bosnian refugees sit round a table. Smith asks if he may join the
group. The middle-aged men trade skeptical glances until Smith explains that
he's been where they've been, seen what they've seen.

"Ljubinje? Stolac and Berkovici?" the former police officer says, rattling off
cities, landmarks and experiences until their eyes smile in recognition. When
Smith says "I know Dretelj," the Croatian-run concentration camp where the men
were condemned during the war, the dreaded memory brings to mind Zaim Bojcic,
their friend and camp survivor who was killed Sunday at a Starbucks in San Jose
after he fought with a San Jose police officer.

"He was a good guy," 40-year-old Ilijaz Penava said of Bojcic, his high school
friend.

As those affected mourn Bojcic's death, a spotlight has turned on Santa Clara
County's Bosnian refugee community, a relatively small population that
immigrated here fleeing "ethnic cleansing" and warfare in the former Yugoslavia.

When the Balkan conflict ended in 1995, more than a quarter-million people had
been killed. Those refugees who resettled in the Bay Area have spent the last
decade or so trying to build new lives despite myriad obstacles.

Like immigrant groups before them, Bosnian refugees have had to navigate a
complex web of social, legal and governmental systems to make it here. And for
many, finding and keeping jobs, learning English and dealing with the trauma of
war are challenges that persist today.

"This is a community under stress," said Sonja Cvitanich, deputy director of the
Eastern European Service Agency, which was formed in response to the wave of
Bosnians that began immigrating to the Bay Area in 1992 and 1993.

"The challenge for this community is that because of the kind of war that it
was, it has divided the people," Cvitanich said. "The war itself divided people
so it's a challenge to educate, to bring them together here as a community."

Cvitanich estimates there are as many as 10,000 Bosnians living in Santa Clara
County, although a recent second migration to Sacramento and other less
expensive areas has made it difficult to keep track of everyone.

The death of one of their own could change that.

Today, hundreds are expected to gather at the Starbucks on Winchester Boulevard
where police say officer Donald Guess shot Bojcic after he attacked the police
officer who had asked the immigrant to leave the premises. Witnesses say Bojcic
and friends had been smoking at an outside patio area when the store's manager
complained. Guess, who had gone there on a break, was asked to intervene.

To local Bosnians, for which drinking coffee and smoking cigarettes together is
a national pastime, Bojcic's death is senseless.

A day after his killing, during a vigil at Starbucks, even non-smoking Bosnians
lit one up in defiance.

"We need to go and talk to police," said Ramajana Hidic-Demirovic, 29, of
Saratoga. "It seems to me that San Jose Police Department simply doesn't
understand this is a multicultural and multiethnic community, and they have to
take this into account when they are dealing with people."

But then the young mother acknowledges that her own community has a lot of work
to do. While some have found decent jobs, started families and bought homes
here, too many languish in tenuous, low-income situations. An untold number have
post-traumatic stress.

"It's something that the community in general simply failed to deal with," she
said. "And it's not that we didn't think about it or anything. It's that we were
a brand-new community trying really hard to establish ourselves, busy with our
own lives and simply ignored all these very important emotional and
psychological things.

"I think now is the time for us to start working on that. I think we failed to
communicate with the county and San Jose Police Department, maybe, in explaining
these issues."

The 40-year-old Bojcic, who came to the United States 10 years ago, rarely spoke
about the war in the early 1990s that killed his father and landed him in the
Dretelj camp for six months. But lately, friends say, he showed signs of being
deeply troubled.

"He was very scared of police," Penava, his childhood friend, said. And in his
own quiet way, Penava suffers, too.

Recently he went to see a doctor for chest pain, only to be told it was anxiety
resulting from his wartime experience. Instead of taking medication, Penava said
he chooses to deal with his problems the traditional way at home, with his loved
ones and outside, with friends he trusts over Turkish coffee and cigarettes.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A community forum to discuss the Bojcic case will be held Oct. 14 by the
independent police auditor. The forum will take place from 6 to 8 p.m. at 70 W.
Hedding St. in San Jose.

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Boris Pavcec from Croatia sips coffee and shares tales of his homeland during a
Friday visit to the Adriatic Cafe. The cafe has become a gathering spot for
emigres from Balkan countries.
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Semso Gurda from Bosnia, left, and Boris Pavcec from Croatia are among those who
gather at the Adriatic Cafe in Campbell to drink coffee and smoke.
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Strong coffee and food from their homeland are some of the attractions that
bring natives of the Balkans to the Adriatic Cafe.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTED;
IN A BOXCAR;
A CIVIL RIGHTS NIGHTMARE

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 550 words


I don't believe for a minute that Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is anti-Latino, not
with a Kennedy wife and his own immigrant experience to remind him he's not in
Central Europe anymore. Then again, this Mexican-American wasn't picked up one
day and herded into a boxcar.

But Ignacio Pina was, and he has a legitimate gripe against the rookie governor.

Schwarzenegger recently vetoed two bills that would have offered hope for an
apology and symbolic bucks to Mexican-Americans like Pina who were illegally
deported during the 1930s. If you were educated in America, chances are you
never heard about one of the worst civil rights nightmares in our history.

Pina was only 6 years old when U.S. immigration officers showed up at his
Montana home, jailed his family for a week, then put them on a train to Mexico.
It was 1931. As the Great Depression settled in, America once more succumbed to
anti-immigrant hysteria. President Hoover ordered the mass deportation of
illegal Mexican immigrants. A lot of state and local authorities gladly lent a
hand to Hoover's "repatriation program."

Nobody has solid numbers, but historians believe 500,000 to 2 million were
shipped out, including tens of thousands of legal immigrants and children like
Pina who were born in the United States. Pina eventually made it back after his
family struggled to survive in Mexico. Who knows how many did not? He's 80 now
and lives in Bakersfield, Calif.

"It's a feeling I will have until I die," he told the Associated Press. "This
government did a very wrong thing."

The retired railroad worker will have to live a while longer with thatfeeling.
So will others who lost their rights, property and livelihood.

In all fairness to Schwarzenegger, he wasn't the only historically challenged
politician to reject justice for the "repatriados." So did former Gov. Gray
Davis, and for the same reason. It would cost the state millions in legal fees
and payments, and we just can't afford it after writing fat paychecks for state
prison guards.

I wrote first about the plight of the repatriados last year, when civil rights
groups filed a class-action lawsuit against Los Angeles and California. The
lawyers didn't go after the feds because President Franklin Delano Roosevelt
stopped the federal deportations in 1932. Most of the damage was done by zealous
local and state authorities who kept the deportation boxcars loaded and
southbound for most of the 1930s. That's why the state legislation was crucial.
It would have allowed the repatriados to sue the state after the statute of
limitations had expired.

If you want a full explanation of the deportations, and a better understanding
of Mexican American sensibilities today, I recommend the 1995 book "Decade of
Betrayal" by scholars Francisco Balderrama and Raymond Rodriguez.

For now, anyone who stands for correcting this ugly, buried history should take
heart in the example set by Japanese-Americans interned during World War II.
They won an official apology and reparations after repeated rejections convinced
them to take their story to the American people.

Maybe it's a script lost on California's actor-turned-governor, but politicians
who reject justice that is long overdue often end up pushing it into the
headlines and history books.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 7, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IT'S THE CANDIDATE, NOT BIRTHPLACE;
IMMIGRANTS HAVE PROVEN THEY CAN LEAD
WHY NOT A FOREIGN-BORN PRESIDENT?

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 319 words


The debate over a constitutional amendment to permit foreign-born citizens to
become president has been too much about Arnold Schwarzenegger and too little
about a simple question: What is there to fear from giving American voters a
wider choice of presidential candidates?

Amendments have been introduced in Congress to change the Constitution's
requirement that "No Person except a natural born Citizen" be eligible to be
president. One version, by Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, would require 20 years of
citizenship; another proposal, 35.

In the United States today, one in eight residents was born abroad. In Santa
Clara County, it is one in three.

Immigrants ineligible to be president have skillfully led America's best
companies, Andy Grove from Hungary at Intel; its foremost universities,
Chang-lin Tien from Taiwan at the University of California at Berkeley; and the
U.S. military, Gen. John Shalikashvili, from Poland, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, who presumably was entrusted with at least a couple of national
security secrets.

Schwarzenegger is not the only foreign-born governor. Michigan's Jennifer
Granholm, a Democrat, is a native of Canada.

Hatch's amendment is suspected of being especially friendly to fellow Republican
Schwarzenegger, who has been a citizen for 21 years. But one year as governor
has hardly put him on a glide path to the White House.

Whatever the need for American-born when the Constitution was written, those
days are long gone. The provision is an anomaly in today's multicultural
society.

Besides, voters can be trusted to make the judgment about the reliability of a
potential president. It's hard enough to get elected to a city council without
having lived in town for a while. Americans are not going to elect a president
who doesn't understand the country and whose loyalty they suspect -- whether
that person is from Alabama or Albania.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: Granholm
PHOTO: Grove
PHOTO: Schwarzenegger
PHOTO: Shalikashvili

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 15, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AN OVERFLOW PRESIDENTIAL TALENT POOL;
IMMIGRANTS HAVE WHAT IT TAKES

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9C

LENGTH: 489 words


If I wasn't ready for Governor Arnold, why should I be open to President
Schwarzenegger?

Because there is more talent and intelligence in the great pool of immigrants in
America than in the fishbowl of Hollywood and the gene pool of famous political
families combined. We're cheating our democracy by not letting immigrants become
president.

Amending the U.S. Constitution would be great, but the current movement to
change the requirement is nothing more than a slick power grab for the White
House in 2008 or the following presidential election.

Republican Party honchos are looking down the road to the end of President
Bush's second term, or President Kerry's first term, and they don't see any
U.S.- born Republican with star quality or presidential pedigree. They see
Arnold.

The problem is, the governor of California is an immigrant. Sure, he's been a
citizen for 21 years. And by then Schwarzenegger will have five whole years of
political experience, which is what John Edwards, the Democrats' vice
presidential candidate this year, has under his belt right now.

Schwarzenegger would be a cinch for president if it weren't for Article II of
the Constitution. The Founding Fathers wrote it in because they were afraid a
foreign monarch might use his influence and money to get elected and sabotage
the young democracy. They did the right thing, but that was then.

Seeing as how the British royal family has become a joke, and young blue bloods
elsewhere seem more interested in sports cars than in running things, we have no
reason to expect any of them to run for president. The job doesn't pay enough.

What scares me more is our penchant for electing movie stars and the sons and
daughters of famous political families to high political office.

It's an old American tradition dating back to the Adamses, Roosevelts and
Kennedys to the current Bushes in the White House and in Florida. California
Republicans have been particularly good at tapping Hollywood, having launched
the political careers of Sen. George Murphy, Ronald Reagan and
nowSchwarzenegger.

I can't prove this trend hampers democracy, but I'd feel a lot better if it
leaned the other way. I'm waiting for the day voters favor presidents who had
grown up poor or middle class and didn't become famous first by blowing up
things on film or riding into public office on daddy's coattails.

We can create a better field of candidates by adding immigrants to the list of
presidential hopefuls. After all, they come from a group that knows hardship and
hard work as well as any other. Of course, the amendment might backfire. Given
the power of the Hollywood political machine, we could end up with a rising
batch of immigrant, show business-politicians like Gov. Muscle Pump.

Still, I like the democratic ideal of someone from the unwashed masses leading
the nation, even if it happens only once a century. What do we have to lose?

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 23, 2004 Saturday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

PAIR SENTENCED IN VISA FRAUD THAT BILKED IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 237 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Two former U.S. State Department employees were sentenced to federal prison
Friday for accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to let
immigrants enter the country illegally.

Long N. Lee, 52, who was chief administrative officer at the U.S. Embassy in
Colombo, Sri Lanka, was sentenced to five years. Her husband, Acey R. Johnson,
34, who had worked in the consular section of the embassy, was given a term of
five years and three months.

Federal prosecutors said the pair masterminded a scheme in which they illegally
issued about 200 visas from the U.S. embassies in Sri Lanka, Fiji and Vietnam in
return for bribes.

The pair forfeited $750,000 in cash and property the government alleged was
purchased with the bribe money, and each was fined $12,500. They previously
forfeited another $13,000 in cash.

Lee admitted accepting bribes for visas as early as 1995 and continuing until
her arrest in April 2003.

Johnson, who allegedly was part of the scheme since 1997, was arrested the same
month at the couple's seaside home in Port Orford, Ore.

Visa brokers operating in the Northern Virginia, Sacramento and Los Angeles
areas allegedly would collect bribes, mostly from Indian or Vietnamese
nationals, then send the individuals to the embassies where Lee and Johnson
worked to get their visas.

Ten people have been convicted in the case, while an 11th remains a fugitive.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area Briefing

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               October 27, 2004 Wednesday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

VOTERS GUIDE FOR IMMIGRANTS STIRS DEBATE;
ORGANIZERS CLAIM TO BE NON-PARTISAN, BUT SUGGESTIONS SIDE WITH DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 871 words


Hoping to decipher the state's perplexing ballot propositions, a coalition of
advocacy groups has published an unprecedented "immigrant voters guide" for tens
of thousands of foreign-born citizens across California.

But while the coalition claims to be non-partisan, its guide might create a
different impression: The recommendations side 100 percent with the official
position of the state Democratic Party.

"It's ridiculous," said Nhut Ho, an alternate member of the Santa Clara County
Republican Central Committee, and Vietnam native. He said the guide incorrectly
characterizes all immigrants as Democrats.

Some local and state Republican leaders are questioning how the coalition came
to its conclusions.

"It sounds more like a coordinated campaign with the Democrats," said
Assemblywoman Bonnie Garcia, a Republican who represents Imperial County along
the border with Mexico.

A spokeswoman for the coalition that produced the guide in six languages
strongly denies any such connection to the Democratic Party.

"Our tax-exempt status prohibits us from doing any partisan work," said Larisa
Casillas, who oversaw the guide's development for the Northern California
Citizenship Project, based in San Francisco. "We're able to take positions on
issues, but we can't take positions on particular parties or candidates," she
said.

The guide focuses on eight of the state's 16 measures on Tuesday's ballot.

It recommends a "yes" vote on Proposition 66, the measure to ease sentencing
requirements for "three strikes" criminals, because "immigrants and people of
color are disproportionately sentenced." The guide suggests "yes" on Proposition
72, which seeks to order more businesses to provide health care for workers.

The state Republican Party recommends a "no" vote on both.

While the guide's recommendations are identical to the platform promoted by the
Democrats, three of its positions are shared by both parties.

Casillas said the recommendations were made by groups of immigrants meeting at
different advocacy organizations, including San Jose-based Services, Immigrant
Rights, and Education Network.

Each group reviewed the measures and learned which companies, organizations and
individuals supported the initiatives. The groups were not told which side the
political parties took, though many members did their own research,Casillas
said.

Casillas, an emigrant from Mexico City, said she wasn't surprised that the
foreign-born voters involved in the effort sided with the Democratic Party.
Democrats, she said, have a better reputation among immigrants who care deeply
about issues such as civil rights and education. Republicans, of course, dispute
that.

Some Republicans said they were surprised by the recommendations, given that a
significant number of Vietnamese and Filipino immigrants are aligned with the
GOP.

Nhut Ho, who also is a member of Vietnamese-American Republicans of Northern
California, said an analysis he conducted showed that Republicans make up 62
percent of Santa Clara County's registered voters who have recognizable
Vietnamese surnames.

Literature that promotes the guide to about 125 groups states that the
coalition's effort, a campaign known as Mobilize the Immigrant Vote 2004, is
committed to "supporting the full inclusion of immigrant communities in the
political process."

The guide -- available in Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, Korean, Tagalog and
English -- is being distributed at a time when the so-called immigrant vote is
becoming increasingly important.

A recent national study concluded that new citizens who are registered to vote
are more likely to turn out at the polls than non-immigrant registered voters.
The American Immigration Law Foundation study also found that immigrants were an
estimated 13.3 percent of California's voters in 2000, the nation's highest
share, according to the study.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
HOW IMMIGRANT VOTERS GUIDE COMPARES
A look at how ballot recommendations in the first-ever statewide immigrant
voters guide stack up next to positions of the state Republican and Democratic
parties.
MEASURE
SUMMARY
VOTERS GUIDE
DEMOCRATS
REPUBLICANS
Prop. 59
Amend constitution to include public right of access to government meetings and
documents.
Yes
Yes
Yes
Prop. 60
Retain closed primary election system
Yes
Yes
Yes
Prop. 62
Allow voters to select any candidate in primary elections, regardless of their
political affiliation
No
No
No
Prop. 63
1 percent tax on the wealthy to increase mental health services
Yes
Yes
No
Prop. 64
Allow "unfair business" lawsuits only if actual loss is suffered
No
No
Yes
Prop. 66
Soften "three strikes" law, the toughest sentencing law in the nation
Yes
Yes
No
Prop. 69
Require DNA samples from all felons and others arrested for or charged with
specific crimes
No
No
Yes
Prop. 72
Uphold a state law requiring many employers to provide health insurance to
employees
Yes
Yes
No
Source: Mobilize the Immigrant Vote 2004, California Democratic and Republican
parties

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ELECTION 2004
SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The immigrant voters guide can be downloaded from www.immigrantvoice.org:
miv2004.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 5, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-TERROR EFFORTS PRODUCE 700 ARRESTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 151 words


More than 700 people were arrested on immigration violations and thousands more
were subjected to FBI interviews in an intense government effort to avert a
terrorist attack aimed at disrupting the election.

As with past unrealized Al-Qaida threats, law enforcement officials said
Thursday that they don't know for sure whether any of those arrests or
interviews foiled an attack.

"It's very hard to prove a negative," Michael Garcia, chief of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, said in an interview Thursday.

Although the election season passed without an attack, officials say Al-Qaida
remains a dangerous foe intent on striking the United States again. The Jan. 20
presidential inauguration heads the list of upcoming high-profile events that
officials say could draw terrorist interest. Others include the Feb. 6 Super
Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla., and the December holiday travel season.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CAMPAIGN '04 IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 12, 2004 Friday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

NEGLECTED GROUP RECEIVING HONORS FOR THE FIRST TIME

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 394 words


Bay Area gay and lesbian immigrants will be honored at a reception today in
Burlingame by a national immigrant-advocacy group for their "contributions that
greatly enriched our nation."

"It's a group that doesn't get much honoring, and recognizing is one of the
things that we do, to promote the rights of immigrants and promote the rights of
immigrants who are in the minority," said Kirsten Schlenger, an immigration
attorney in San Francisco and trustee of the American Immigration Law
Foundation, the non-profit education group that's hosting the reception at the
San Francisco Airport Marriott Hotel in Burlingame.

Every year, the foundation pays tribute to an ethnic group for its contributions
to the United States. This is the first time that lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender immigrants are being honored.

"I'm thrilled because it's an important award, the fact that a mainstream
organization is starting to focus on issues that affect the gay, lesbian,
bisexual, transgender community," said Mihail Lari, one of the honorees and an
immigrant from Pakistan and founder of the Palo Alto start-up www.blogit.com, a
community of bloggers.

The other honorees include Dusty Araujo, an immigrant from Panama who helps gays
and lesbians document their asylum cases for the group International Gay and
Lesbian Human Rights; David Campos, born in Panama, former San Francisco city
attorney and now counsel for San Francisco Unified School District; Marta
Donayre, who emigrated from Brazil and co-founded Sunnyvale-based Love Sees No
Borders, a group working to secure legislation that will allow gay and lesbian
U.S. citizens to legally petition immigration for their foreign-born partners;
and JoAnne Keatley, an immigrant from Mexico who is director of a University of
California-San Francisco program for transgendered people.

The foundation also is presenting a community-service award to Immigration
Equality, a national non-profit group with a chapter in San Francisco that
advocates for legislation and policies for gays and lesbians.

The group holds a monthly clinic for gay and lesbian couples working on legal
immigration.

"Oftentimes we don't get our stories told, and to be recognized by a national
organization brings our stories forward," said Belinda Ryan, co-chair of the San
Francisco chapter of Immigration Equality.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 1C, Morning Final edition
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information about the American Immigration Law Foundation, go to
www.ailf.org . For more information about today's honors reception, click on the
"Salute to LGBT Immigrants" link in the Calendar section of the page.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 23, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION TO U.S. SHOWS NO SIGN OF SLOWING

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C.


More than 34 million U.S. residents were born outside the United States, with
arrivals from Mexico driving much of the growth in the foreign-born population
since 2000, a private research group says.

The foreign-born population grew at a clip of more than 1 million a year between
2000 and 2004, even though the U.S. economy was suffering, according to the
analysis being released today by the Center for Immigration Studies, which
favors stricter immigration policies.

That pace was roughly equal to the growth rate between 1996 and 2000.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 26, 2004 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAKE VISA PROGRAMS WORK FOR AMERICA;
OVERSIGHT NEEDED TO STOP ABUSE OF H-1B, L-1 PROGRAMS BY EMPLOYERS SEEKING LOWER
WAGE COSTS

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10C

LENGTH: 462 words


Mercury News Editorial

The decision by Congress to allow 20,000 additional highly skilled immigrants
into the Untied States this year is an important step toward shoring up
America's competitiveness.

But equally important was Congress' acknowledgment that the two programs for
skilled workers, the H-1B and L-1 visas, are broken.

A bill to fix the programs, which passed Saturday, is a good first step. But
it's unclear whether it will be sufficient to stamp out the abuse of the
programs, which hurts both the companies who attempt to make legitimate use of
the visas and the American workers who end up unfairly displaced by immigrant
workers.

The two programs are different. The L-1 visa was designed to allow multinational
companies to temporarily transfer to the United States workers who have specific
knowledge of company products, services or operations. The H-1B is meant to
bring in highly skilled foreigners for jobs that cannot be filled by American
workers.

The worst abuse occurs with the L-1 visa, which some companies use to turn
themselves into international temp agencies. These companies import tech workers
with generic skills, pay them below-market wages and outsource them to other
companies for specific projects.

At a time when American tech workers are being displaced by offshoring, this
"onshoring" of low-wage workers is unconscionable. The bill seeks to remedy the
problem mainly by restricting the outsourcing of L-1 visa holders to third
parties.

The situation with the H-1B visa is more murky. Many tech companies use the visa
legitimately, hiring highly skilled workers whose presence here has helped build
America's technology leadership.

But there's mounting evidence that some employers misuse the visa to cut labor
costs. They bring in workers whose skills are commonplace and pay them
below-market wages. The government has done little to enforce a requirement that
H-1B workers be paid a "prevailing wage."

Every time an undeserving worker gets a visa, a deserving immigrant is shut out.
That's because only 65,000 H-1B visas are issued each year. This year, the visa
cap was reached on the first day of the fiscal year.

The bill permitted an additional 20,000 foreigners with post-graduate degrees
from American universities to stay in the country. Forcing these talented
individuals -- many of whom have been educated at taxpayers' expense -- to go
home makes no sense.

Two other measures in the bill should help. One forces the government to collect
more data on how the visas are used, while the other strengthens its power to
police abuse.

But Congress cannot consider its work done. It must use its oversight authority
to closely monitor the visa programs and be ready to act if abuses persist.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Foreign workers

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 30, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SPOUSE'S SEX CHANGE CLOUDS RESIDENCY STATUS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 167 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A lawsuit filed Monday against the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
alleges the agency discriminated against a Filipino couple when it denied the
husband's legal residency because his wife had a sex-change operation nearly 24
years ago.

Jiffy Javenella, 27, entered the country as a legal resident in 2001 as Donita
Ganzon's fiance and applied for permanent resident status after marrying Ganzon
later that year. But in interviews with immigration agents earlier this year,
Ganzon, 58, revealed that she had undergone a male-to-female sex-change
operation in 1981.

Within three weeks, the agency denied Javenella's application for permanent
residency and revoked his working papers, according to the couple's lawsuit
filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles.

The Department of Homeland Security said in a letter to Javenella that "no
federal statute or regulation addresses specifically the question whether
someone born a man or a woman can surgically change his or her sex."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMFORTABLE NICHE;
COMING TO REGION, COUPLE FOLLOWED GROUP OF EARLIER IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 594 words


Rudy and Flor Nasol moved to Mountain View in 1970 with only $50 to their name.
But the young couple had good reason to be more optimistic about their future
here than in the Philippines, where President Ferdinand Marcos was soon to
declare martial law.

More than 600,000 Filipinos immigrated to the United States during the two
decades of the Marcos regime, starting in 1965 when the American restrictions on
Asian immigration were lifted -- the same year Marcos took power.

Like many who left, the Nasols chose the Bay Area because it had an existing
Filipino community, ranging from the descendants of farmworkers to a budding
group of medical professionals. Flor Nasol was a nurse and her husband was a
mechanical engineer. Her aunt, a secretary at the Veterans Affairs Medical
Center in Palo Alto, offered them free lodging.

Today, there are more than 321,000 Filipinos in the Bay Area, which does not
include 54,000 who report on census forms that they are part Filipino. They make
up a quarter of the Bay Area's Asian population, the largest groupafter Chinese.

Though the Nasols struggled at first, they have achieved the American dream --
and more. Rudy Nasol was recently re-elected to the board of the Berryessa Union
School District, a rare political victory that he said he owes in part to his
diverse ethnic background. Like many Filipinos, he's part Spanish and part
Chinese.

"People think I'm Latino," he said. "It's a plus for me because I get the
Filipino, Asian and Latino vote."

Unlike other Asians, Filipinos stand out for their ability to blend in, so much
so that sociologists have called them the "Invisible Asians." It's a
characteristic born of their diverse multicultural heritage and history of being
colonized by the United States and Spain. The Philippines is the only
predominantly Catholic country in Asia; the education system is based on the
American model; and English is the language of instruction in schools.

All Filipinos in the Mercury News/Kaiser poll said they spoke English well, and
seven in 10 described themselves as American, the most in both cases of any
Asian subgroup. They are the most likely to say they have a lot or a fair amount
in common with Latinos and whites, and to approve of intermarriage.

The household income of the Bay Area's Filipino community makes it solidly
middle class, though families tend to be larger. Filipinos have a smaller
percentage of low-income households than Chinese, but they also have a smaller
percentage of households earning $200,000 or more, according to the 2000 census.

Still, more than eight in 10 Filipinos say they are successful, the
second-highest of any Asian ethnic group after Indians, belying their national
image as a disadvantaged minority group. Rudy Nasol started out as an elementary
school janitor because no one would hire him as an engineer after he arrived. He
is now the facilities project manager at the San Jose/Evergreen Community
College District. His wife easily found a job in a hospital.

In the Bay Area, and even more so nationally, Filipinos make up a
disproportionately large share of health care workers. In San Mateo County,
Filipinos make up 8 percent of all workers 16 and older, but 20 percent of
health care workers, according to the 2000 census. That may have helped insulate
the community from the brunt of the economic downturn.

"Here, we were able to give the kids a better life with lots of choices," Flor
Nasol said. "In the Philippines, you don't have the same opportunity to spread
your wings."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: ASIAN INFLUENCE: A MERCURY NEWS/KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATIONSPECIAL
REPORTFIRST IN A THREE-PART SERIES

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 20-21A
FILIPINOS: 321,000 IN BAY AREA

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS
Rudy and Flor Nasol go over voter registration lists while canvassing a San Jose
neighborhood in October. Rudy Nasol won re-election to Berryessa Union school
board and was later voted president by his peers.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASIAN INFLUENCE;
GROWING GROUP CHANGES BAY AREA
FORTY YEARS OF IMMIGRATION HAS PROFOUNDLY ALTERED THE BAY AREA. A SURVEY OF
ASIANS OFFERS INSIGHT INTO A GROUP THAT NOW ACCOUNTS FOR NEARLY ONE-FIFTH OF THE
POPULATION IN THE NINE-COUNTY REGION.

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2547 words


Hong Vuong spent her last five gold bars to flee Vietnam in a crowded fishing
boat, eventually arriving in San Jose so broke that she couldn't afford to buy
her hungry daughter a snack at the airport. Twenty-two years later, Vuong owns a
restaurant in downtown San Jose and both of her daughters have graduated from
college.

Anil Godhwani's parents pulled him out of private school in India two decades
ago to finish his education in the United States. Today, the profits he made
from his Sunnyvale start-up have allowed him to become a millionaire
philanthropist for the Bay Area Indian community.

As different as their experiences have been, Vuong and Godhwani are both part of
a powerful trend. A mere 40 years after the United States reopened its doors to
widespread immigration from Asia, natives of that continent and their families
are changing the face of the Bay Area and upending traditional notions of what
it means to be an immigrant.

Now home to the single largest concentration of people of Asian descent in the
continental United States, the Bay Area is a place where these new residents are
achieving the American dream in record time and eclipsing more established
immigrant groups. The pattern is even more striking because until 1956, nearly
all Asian immigrants were not allowed to own land in California.

A Mercury News/Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation poll of Asian adults in the
nine-county Bay Area offers a detailed picture of why they came, what they think
of life here and how they feel about their success, which 81 percent of those
polled say they have found to varying degrees. The poll also illustrates the
complexities of a community drawn from countries as diverse as largely Hindu
India to the predominantly Catholic Philippines with much more variations than
the word Asian suggests.

Conducted in Mandarin, Cantonese, Tagalog, Vietnamese and English, the poll
reveals a common element behind their achievements -- a passion for education --
as well as sharp contrasts in attitudes and preferences among the region's four
largest Asian subgroups: Chinese, Filipinos, Indians and Vietnamese. Together,
they make up 84 percent of the Bay Area's Asian population, according to the
2000 census.

"In the rest of California, Latinos grew very fast, but in the Bay Area it's a
different story -- it's Asians," said L. Ling-chi Wang, professor of
Asian-American studies at the University of California-Berkeley. "Even though
most of the anti-Asian legislation in the past began here, the Bay Area is still
known in Asia as the land of opportunity because of our historical roots here,
the weather, the universities and the new Gold Rush in high tech."

Nearly 70 percent of those surveyed were born overseas. The desire to do better
economically or get an education were the top reasons they cited for coming to
the United States. And though most Asian immigrants maintain close ties to their
native countries, the majority view the United States as their true home and
have no intention of returning to live in Asia.

DEEPER LOOK
EFFECTS ARE FELT THROUGHOUT REGION

Even this poll -- one of the most comprehensive of its kind -- offers only a
glimpse of the impact that the Bay Area's 1.3 million Asianshave had on
neighborhoods, schools and businesses. The fuller picture, depicted in census
data and academic studies, is stunning.

From assemblers to engineers, nearly 40 percent of all high-tech workers in the
region were Asian, according to the 2000 census. While many were concentrated in
production or mid-level jobs, high-profile Silicon Valley companies such as
Yahoo, BEA Systems, Informatica, Cirrus Logic, Webex Communications, Juniper
Networks and Nvidia were all founded or co-founded by Asians.

The Bay Area's KTSF-TV is the only station in the country that broadcasts
nightly news programs in Cantonese and Mandarin, as well as entertainment shows
in 12 other Asian languages.

In Fremont, home to the largest Indo-American festival in the nation, the
nation's first multi-cultural cineplex -- the Naz 8 -- shows only films from
Asia. In Cupertino, a Chinese immigrant is rehabilitating the struggling Vallco
Fashion Park into an internationally themed mall including a 1,000-seat Chinese
restaurant. And from Daly City to East San Jose, more than 200 organizations
offer Filipinos everything from social clubs based on hometown affiliation to
San Jose's annual Filipino Heritage Festival.

The result, according to Henry Yu, professor of Asian-American history at the
University of California-Los Angeles, is that "San Francisco looks a lot like
Los Angeles, Vancouver, Shanghai and Taipei, where a lot of people are
comfortable being with other types of people," he said.

The Bay Area has had a relatively substantial Asian population since the
mid-19th century, when railroad construction and the Gold Rush drew Chinese
immigrant laborers. But those newcomers quickly faced withering discrimination
and exclusionary laws, which all but banned further immigration and, eventually,
citizenship.

It was not until 1965, when the United States reopened its borders to extensive
immigration from Asia for the first time in nearly half a century, that the Bay
Area's transformation truly began to take shape.

Initially, only small numbers of immigrants from Asia were allowed. As recently
as 1980, there were slightly more than 400,000 Asians in the Bay Area -- 8
percent of the total population. Since then, the number has tripled to account
for about 20 percent of the region's population, a remarkable figure considering
Asians make up just 4 percent of the nation's population and 11 percent of the
state's.

In a mere two decades, the ethnic composition and demographic geography of the
Bay Area's Asian population was entirely reshaped. Today, one of five Bay Area
residents is Asian, a higher proportion than in either Los Angeles or Orange
counties.

With new immigrants from throughout Asia, the region's once-robust Japanese
population fell to the fifth-largest group of Asians, just ahead of Koreans. But
the Bay Area's Chinese community remains one of the largest in the nation and
its Filipino and Indian populations are larger than those of either Los Angeles
or Orange counties.

The growth of the Asian population has had a profound demographic impact on San
Francisco. Though it remains an important center of Asian culture, only 20
percent of Bay Area Asians now live in San Francisco. Just 20 years ago, one
third of Asians lived there.

The "capitals" of the Filipino community are Daly City, Milpitas and Union City,
where residents line up at a branch of the Philippine National Bank to send
money home. Fremont and Milpitas are important centers for Indians. And 70
percent of the region's Vietnamese live in Santa Clara County, where a
Vietnamese mall on Story Road replaced a former Price Club.

San Francisco's Asian Art Museum recognized the magnitude of the demographic
shift when it began raising money in the 1990s for a major expansion. The panel
turned to Silicon Valley entrepreneurs for funds, including the lead benefactor,
Korean-born Portola Valley resident Chong-Moon Lee, for whom the museum is now
named.

FAVORED PLACE
WITH LIMITS LIFTED, MOVEMENT BEGINS
Asians, who now make up roughly the same percentage of the Bay Area's population
as Latinos, became the region's fastest-growing minority group for three main
reasons once immigration caps were lifted.

The high-tech industry was a major draw, particularly for educated
professionals. So were ties to family members who had settled here. And
theliberal Bay Area's reputation for racial tolerance became a third lure, one
that has grown even stronger as the number and diversity of immigrants have
increased.

The majority of Bay Area Asians were born overseas, according to the poll, with
Vietnamese and Indians far more likely to be foreign-born than Chinese and
Filipinos, whose communities have a longer history in the Bay Area. Most
foreign-born Asians have already become citizens. The majority are bilingual,
and about eight in 10 surveyed say they speak English very well -- something
most Asians think is important to succeeding here.

The reasons Asians left their countries of origin vary by ethnic group, as does
the timing of their arrival and their experiences here. After 1965, nurses and
other professionals from the Philippines fled dictator Ferdinand Marcos'
government seeking better economic opportunities. They joined other Filipinos,
mostly working-class immigrants, who arrived years earlier. The fall of Saigon
in 1975 drove many Vietnamese to flee their homeland, often with little money or
possessions. In contrast, many Chinese came to the United States on student
visas or to work in high tech, as did Indians, the area's newest group.

Those varied experiences help explain why most of those surveyed prefer to
identify themselves by country of origin rather than as Asians or
Asian-Americans. In fact, the differences are so sharp that just about half of
those polled say discrimination by Asians against other Asians from different
countries is a problem.

One of the most striking findings of the poll is the degree of success and
acceptance these immigrants have found in so short a time. Nearly three-fourths
said Asian immigrants are more likely to succeed in the Bay Area than other
immigrants. Seventy-eight percent of non-Asians agree.

But not all Asians feel equally successful. Indians are most likely to say
they've been successful (96 percent), followed by Filipinos (83 percent),
Chinese (73 percent) and Vietnamese (68 percent).

Those perceptions are reflected in census data, with one exception: Despite the
existence of an urban underclass in San Francisco, Chinese rank second, not
third, in terms of per capita income. Indians, with a per capita income of
$35,385, were the most successful; Vietnamese, with a per capita income of
$19,044, were fourth, though the figures do not take into account the
underground cash economies common in immigrant communities.

Dennis Arguelles, of the Asian American Studies Center at the University of
California-Los Angeles, notes that Asians have "battled against the concept of
being the model minority -- that all Asians are doing well and advancing. But
what people fail to understand is that the Asian community in the Bay Area is
bifurcated with a large number of folks who are educated and doing well and a
large segment that is disadvantaged."

Nevertheless, census data shows that all four of the largest Asian groups
outpaced Latinos. But none was on par with the per capita income of whites.

"There's no ocean to cross for Latino immigrants, so more low-skilled immigrants
can come here," said Manuel Pastor, director of the Center for Justice,
Tolerance and Community at the University of California-Santa Cruz. "If China
was next door, we'd get a different kind of immigrant from China."

POLITICAL FRONT
SOME VICTORIES AT BALLOT BOX
Translating economic success into significant political muscle has been a
challenge, though Asians have made some strides locally in recent years. Ethnic
fragmentation is one impediment: While about half of Asians surveyed say they'd
be more likely to vote for an Asian candidate than a non-Asian with the same
qualifications, about half said they would choose a candidate from their native
country over another Asian.

In addition, Asians compete with California's less fragmented Latino community
-- particularly in San Jose, where redistricting wiped out a potentially Asian
seat in the state Legislature. By 2020, the growth of the Bay Area's Latino
population is expected to exceed the Asian population, principally because of
higher birth rates. That suggests that Asians will have to work even harder to
gain political power.

The poll did not pick up much overt racial tension between Asians and
non-Asians. Just 13 percent of Asians surveyed said discrimination is a major
problem preventing Asians from succeeding in the United States. But about half
said they have less opportunity in life than whites and slightly more thanhalf
of Asians believe their achievements are underrated.

Most of those surveyed said Asians have had a positive impact on the region,
from enhancing the high-tech industry to improving the economy, public schools
and property values. But most non-Asians, while acknowledging the contribution
Asians have made to high tech, said Asians have had no impact on schools or
property values.

One possible explanation for the difference in perceptions is that there is
still relatively little mixing between non-Asians and the mostly foreign-born
Asian population in the Bay Area. Fifty-five percent of Asians said all or most
of their friends are Asian, and about one in four of those employed said all or
most of the people they associate with at work are Asian. However, Asian parents
said their children's friends are mostly non-Asian, a sign that this next
generation is mingling more. That's been typical of most immigrant groups: Each
successive generation assimilates and the culture of native countries becomes
diluted.

PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL POPULATION
The vast majority of Bay Area Asians are concentrated in four of the region's
nine counties. The percentage of the total population that is Asian in those
counties:
31 percent: San Francisco County
26 percent: Santa Clara County
20 percent: Alameda County
20 percent: San Mateo County
Source: 2000 census

CHART:  ANDREA MASCHIETTO AND GRIFF PALMER -- MERCURY NEWS
GROUPS BY COUNTIES
Percentages show each group's share of total Asian population
NATIONALITY               CHINESE        FILIPINO         INDIAN VIETNAMESE
ALAMEDA COUNTY              38%            23%              15%             8%
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY        64%            17%              2%              4%
SAN MATEO COUNTY            35%            42%              7%              2%
SANTA CLARA COUNTY          27%            18%             16%             23%
SOURCE:  2000 census; shaded areas based on U.S. Census Bureau boundaries
CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
REASONS FOR COMING TO THE UNITED STATES
Among foreign-born Asians
MAJOR REASON         MINOR REASON        NOT A REASON
To do better economically         47%                  18%                 32%
To get an education               46%                  12%                 39%
To be with family members
already in the United States      41%                  13%                 43%
To give your children             41%                  11%                 45%
a better future
Conditions are bad in the
country you are from              19%                  20%                 59%
To flee political or
religious persecution             11%                   9%                 77%
To get social services
and health care                    9%                  16%                 73%
To get married                     8%                   7%                 83%
Source:  Mercury News/Kaiser Family Foundation Survey
CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
INCOME
Per capita income by group, age 16 and older
GROUP             POPULATION       PER CAPITA INCOME
Non-Hispanic White       3,392,204           $40,787
Indian                     143,306           $35,385
Chinese                    468,736           $28,789
Filipino                   321,333           $22,086
Vietnamese                 146,253           $19,044
Hispanic                 1,315,175           $15,724
Source:  2000 Census

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: ASIAN INFLUENCE: A MERCURY NEWS/KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATIONSPECIAL
REPORTFIRST IN A THREE-PART SERIES

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 20-21A
Mercury News Database Editor Griff Palmer and Staff Writer Cecilia Kang
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map, Charts (3);
MAP: ANDREA MASCHIETTO AND GRIFF PALMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Asians in the Bay Area
People of Asian descent make up 19 percent of the Bay Area population, numbering
about 1.3 million, according to the 2000 census. About 86 percent are
concentrated in four of the nine counties: San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara
and Alameda. Four major subgroups -- Chinese, Filipinos, Vietnamese and Indians
-- make up 84 percent of all Bay Area Asians.
PHOTO CONGLOMERATE: PAULINE LUBENS, GARY REYES AND MERI SIMON
[Bay area immigrants from China, the Philippines, India and Vietnam]

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 12, 2004 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FROM "GOLD MOUNTAIN" TO SILICON VALLEY

BYLINE: ANDREA MASCHIETTO AND DIANA STICKLER -- MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 804 words


1820: A federal commission reports arrival of first Chinese in U.S.
1848: Discovery of gold at Sutter's Mill draws Chinese immigrants to West Coast;
U.S. becomes known in China as 'Gold Mountain."
1858: California law prevents further immigration of Chinese.
1868: Japanese contract workers arrive in Hawaii to work sugar plantations.
1869: The Transcontinental Railroad is completed. Chinese labor constitutes 90
percent of workforce on the Central Pacific side during last stage of
construction. With a rapid influx of white immigrants to West Coast, Chinese
become unwanted. They are mistreated and excluded.
1869: The first Japanese colony on U.S. mainland, the Wakamatsu colony,
established as a tea and silk farm near Gold Hill, Calif.
1870: Asians barred from U.S. citizenship by Naturalization Act.
1870: San Jose's Chinatown burns in accidental fire and is rebuilt, only to be
burned again in anti-Asian violence in 1887.
1876: Headquarters at Smith Creek for the Chinese road building crew on Mount
Hamilton Road.
1882-83: Congress passes the Chinese Exclusion Act, prohibiting admission of
Chinese laborers for 10 years initially. Act was extended and not repealed until
1943. Japanese replace Chinese as a source of cheap labor.
1898: The Philippines and Guam ceded to U.S. after Spanish-American War; their
inhabitants are declared U.S. nationals, but not citizens.
1906: San Francisco's school board requires Japanese and Korean children to
attend segregated 'Oriental" public schools with Chinese.
1907: Workers from India begin arriving on West Coast. They are initially
classified as white, allowed to intermarry and become citizens. But a 1923
ruling bars further Indian immigration and naturalization.
1907: President Theodore Roosevelt enters into 'Gentlemen's Agreement" with
Japan to limitJapanese immigration. It also bans immigration of Korean laborers,
which opens Hawaiian farming jobs for Filipinos.
1913: California's Alien Land Law prevents Japanese and Chinese immigrants from
owning land or leasing it for more than three years. It is not repealed until
1956.
1925-1929: Filipinos are not eligible for U.S. citizenship unless they have
served in the U.S. Navy for three years; Japanese are not eligible even if they
have served in the military; and Chinese wives of American citizens are not
allowed to come to America.
1939: The Filipino Agricultural Laborers Association has a significant victory
witha strike against California asparagus industry. After a one-day stoppage,
all 258 growers guarantee unprecedented worker rights. This prompts similar
victories in other fields. By 1940, the association has nearly 30,000 members.
1941: Congress passes law enabling Filipinos to serve in the U.S. Army;
one-third of the Filipino men in U.S. sign up.
1942: President Franklin Roosevelt signs Executive Order 9066 authorizing
internment of 120,000 persons of Japanese ancestry. Three-fourths of the
internees are American citizens.
1943: Repeal of Chinese Exclusion Act. Because China is an ally during World War
II, U.S. restores Chinese immigration, allowing 105 people per year, and
naturalization for Chinese immigrants.
1946: Filipinos born in the U.S. now eligible for citizenship; the 442nd
Regimental Combat Team, right, all Japanese-Americans, becomes most decorated
unit in World War II; all internment camps are closed.
1965: New immigration law eliminates race, creed and nationality as basis for
immigration and allows 20,000 immigrants per year from each independent nation,
Asian or European. Immigrationfrom India grows 2,000 percent from 1966 to 1974.
1975: Fall of Saigon. The first wave of Southeast Asian refugees arrive,
primarily educated, professional Vietnamese.
1978: Second wave of more rural, less educated Vietnamese refugees begin to
arrive, known as 'boat people" for escaping refugee camps in fishing boats.
1980: Congress establishes commission to determine if any wrongs were committed
by W.W. II internment of Japanese-Americans.
1980: Congress passes Refugee Act, enabling more refugees to enter U.S.
1983: Redress Commission calls for official apology for internment camps and
payment of $20,000 to each surviving former internee.
1988: President Ronald Reagan signs into law an entitlement program to pay
surviving Japanese-American internees; payments are delayed.
1988: U.S. agrees with Vietnam allowing political prisoners to immigrate to U.S.

1998: Chinese-or Indian-run companies make up 29 percent of total Silicon Valley
high techstart-ups.
1990: Third and smallest wave of Vietnamese immigration begins, mostly
middle-age former prisoners of re-education camps.
Timeline source: Mercury News research
Photographs: History San Jose, National Archives, Mercury News archives

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: ASIAN INFLUENCE: A MERCURY NEWS/KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATIONSPECIAL REPORT.
FIRST IN A THREE-PART SERIES.

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Pages 1A, 20-21A

GRAPHIC: Photos (9);
PHOTO: San Jose's Chinatown 1877.
PHOTO: Headquarters at Smith Creek for the Chinese road building crew on Mount
Hamilton Road.
PHOTO: [Chinese railroad workers in snow]
PHOTO: Poster advertising Transcontinental Railroad.
PHOTO: At the turn of the 20th century, the population in San Francisco's
chinatown was predominantly male because U.S. policies made it difficult for
Chinese women to enter the country.
PHOTO: 442nd Regimental Combat Team, right, all Japanese- Americans
PHOTO: Young girl waits for transport to internment camp.
PHOTO: Group of Japanese protest for reparations in San Jose in 1989.
PHOTO: Thousands of Vietnamese refugees wait in Hong Kong for transportation to
temporary camps in 1979.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 18, 2004 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FISCHER WELCOMES ICELAND AS HAVEN;
CHESS LEGEND WAITS IN JAPANESE CUSTODY, FIGHTING U.S. CHARGE

BYLINE: YURI KAGEYAMA, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 517 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Iceland's offer to let former chess champion Bobby Fischer live there could be
the answer he has been seeking to his international immigration problems.

Fischer has been sitting in detention in Japan for six months, fighting
deportation orders and fleeing criminal charges in the United States.

Fischer said through his attorneys and a supporter Friday that he would be more
than happy to go to Iceland -- the scene of his greatest chess triumph --
although he is unlikely to ever go back to playing chess professionally.

"Bobby Fischer is naturally very pleased with the decision. And he sees his
freedom now directly in front of him," said John Bosnitch, a Fischer supporter
who spoke with him by phone earlier in the day. "He feels vindicated in having
stuck to his principles and not at any time having bent to the pressure that was
being put on him."

Fischer -- praised as a genius by many -- was caught trying to board a flight
for the Philippines with an invalid passport in July after the United States
revoked his passport.

Fischer is fighting a deportation order to the United States, where he is wanted
on charges of violating international sanctions against Yugoslavia for playing
in a 1992 rematch there against Boris Spassky. His 1972 match in Iceland against
Spassky propelled Fischer to stardom.

It is still unclear if and when Fischer, 61, may be released.

Immigration officials have said it is difficult for Fischer to be released to go
to Iceland even with the latest offer. Japanese officials have said he could go
to a third country only if the United States refuses to take him.

In Washington, State Department press secretary Richard Boucher said it would be
up to Iceland to decide whether to admit Fischer.

"We would note that he is indicted in the United States and wanted in the United
States," he said.

Fischer technically does not have a passport, but Iceland has agreed to let him
enter without one, Bosnitch said, showing a copy of a document from Iceland's
immigration authorities.

Masako Suzuki, Fischer's attorney, said the release could come as soon as a
month from now because she foresaw no legal problems in having Tokyo change the
destination of the deportation order to Iceland.

Fischer had applied for safe haven in Iceland and other nations, Bosnitch said.
Word that Iceland had approved Fischer's application came Thursday from that
country's embassy.

Even if he wins his freedom and goes to Iceland, Fischer probably will not be
playing any more chess. He believes that international chess has grown corrupt
and lacks sportsmanship, Bosnitch said.

Fischer, who has baffled the public with his tendency for reclusiveness and odd
behavior, has also applied to marry a Japanese chess official.

Friday, his fiancee, Miyoko Watai, said she had no comment on the marriage
plans. But she said she would like to go to Iceland.

"Bobby is very interested in mineral spas and fish, more than eating meat. So
Iceland is very similar to Japan," she said softly in English. "If he goes to
Iceland, I would like to go there, too."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KOJI SASAHARA -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Miyoko Watai, Bobby Fischer's fiancee, seen with supporter John Bosnitch, says
she would go to Iceland with Fischer.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 23, 2004 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEAF FILIPINO BEGS TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 425 words


A deaf Filipino immigrant, the son of a World War II veteran, is pleading with
the federal government to drop deportation proceedings against him, based on
humanitarian grounds.

Gerardo Dulalia, 39, who works as an interpreter at Ohlone College in Fremont,
lost his last chance to become a legal, permanent resident in the United States
after his parents died a year apart, in 2000 and 2001. He has a deportation
hearing before an immigration judge in San Francisco on Jan. 11.

Dulalia's father, Pablo Zuniga Dulalia, served alongside U.S. troops during
World War II battles in the Philippines and was promised citizenship by the U.S.
government. It wasn't until 1990, when such veterans were in their 70s and 80s,
that the U.S. government made good on its 44-year-old promise, granting
Dulalia's father citizenship. The Dulalias moved to the United States in 1992.

"By birthright, Gerry Dulalia is an American citizen," said Marcia Perez,
Dulalia's attorney, during a news conference Wednesday in San Francisco.

"Had the U.S. government kept its promise, Gerry would have been born a U.S.
citizen and not facing removal from the U.S," she said.

But because Dulalia, who was born in the Philippines, was already an adult when
his father was granted citizenship, he did not automatically derive immigration
benefits. His father, then his mother, who was a green-card holder, filed
applications on his behalf for permanent resident status in the United States,
Perez said.

Dulalia first came to the United States in 1987, on a student visa, to study at
the school for the deaf at Ohlone College. His student visa has expired.

Dulalia's brother, who is a U.S. citizen, can file an application, but Dulalia
would be required to leave the country and wait 22 years for his application to
be processed, Perez said.

"We would all be senior citizens at that point," Perez said.

Dulalia, who signs onto the hands of blind students at Ohlone College, is a
contributing member of society who has "had such a raw deal in life," Perez
said. It would be within the power of the Department of Homeland Security, which
oversees immigration, to abandon deportation proceedings against Dulalia, she
said.

Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
declined comment.

Dulalia, who lives in the Union City home where his parents used to live, told
Perez that being deported to the Philippines would be devastating.

"I'd feel angry and hurt, and my life would crumble," Dulalia told Perez in sign
language.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SMUGGLERS ROUTE HUMAN CLIENTS THROUGH MEXICALI;
ALREADY HOME TO MANY CHINESE, TOWN'S ROLE EXPOSED IN HOAX

BYLINE: ELLIOT SPAGAT, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 875 words

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico


About two dozen Chinese immigrants take Spanish class five mornings a week
before going to work at one of the hundreds of Chinese restaurants scattered
throughout the city. The classroom -- at the offices of the 86-year-old Chinese
Association of Mexicali -- is in the heart of a quiet, decaying downtown where
Cantonese is heard on narrow sidewalks.

Patricio Gamez says 28 of his 31 neighbors in a graffiti-covered building speak
Chinese. "They never have birthday parties, never get drunk, never make noise,"
the retired wrestler says.

That quiet life was jolted last month when a phony tipster in Mexicali said he
smuggled Chinese nationals across the border who were preparing a terrorist
attack in Boston. The FBI declared a false alarm, but the episode led the
Department of Homeland Security to begin an investigation of networks that sneak
Chinese immigrants into the United States.

Mexicali -- a sprawling industrial city of about 800,000 people 120 miles east
of San Diego -- may seem like an unlikely stop for Chinese border crossers. It
lies across the brackish Colorado River from Calexico, a California border town
of 30,000 people in a sparsely populated agricultural region. Tree-covered
mountains rise 4,000 feet to the west; hundreds of miles of desert lie east.

But Mexicali is part of an elaborate smuggling route that starts in China and
ends in U.S. coastal cities, where Chinese find work at restaurants, garment
shops and other places where they blend in easily, U.S. law enforcement
officials say. Calexico is one of the largest points of entry for Chinese
immigrant smugglers, along with Los Angeles, New York and Seattle.

Chinese have been drawn to Mexicali since around 1900, after the United States
halted Chinese immigration and cotton growers began looking for cheap labor.
Eduardo Auyon Gerardo, president of the Chinese Association, estimates the city
has 35,000 people of Chinese descent today. About two dozen community groups
help new arrivals get settled.

The absence of language barriers and the ease of finding work and new
acquaintances explains Mexicali's appeal, said Michael Unzueta, acting special
agent in charge of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement
bureau in San Diego.

The trip from China to the United States typically costs $30,000 to $50,000,
though one woman said she agreed to pay $67,000 to a Beijing smuggling ring,
U.S. law enforcement officials say. Flights stop in Milan or Paris, then Mexico
City, then Tijuana or Mexicali on the U.S. border.

A recent case offers a window into how the smuggling networks operate. In June,
federal agents were tipped that a Cessna ferrying illegal immigrants was about
to leave Imperial Valley Airport, 15 miles north of the Mexicali border
crossing. They found five Chinese nationals -- ranging in age from a 17-year-old
girl to a 51-year-old man -- after the plane landed at El Monte Airport, near
Los Angeles.

The Border Patrol refuses to say how many Chinese are arrested, but the number
is small. Mexicans accounted for 94 percent of the 1.1 million arrests last
year, and much of the rest are Central Americans. Mexicans accounted for 99
percent of the 75,000 arrests in the Border Patrol's El Centro sector, which
includes Calexico.

But the Chinese gained attention after a Mexicali man warned of a terrorist plot
in Boston Jan. 17. A week later, Jose Ernesto Beltran Quinones admitted calling
911 from a cell phone to report the fake threat, Mexico's federal attorney
general's office said.

One of 13 Chinese nationals who were briefly sought for questioning about the
alleged plot has been in a federal immigration jail in San Diego since Nov. 11
after being arrested in Calexico. Investigators said Mei Xia Dong, 21, paid a
smuggler to enter the United States through Mexico and that she came for
economic reasons.

An orange, gold and green pagoda -- a gift of its sister city Nanjing --
decorates a tiny downtown Mexicali plaza at one of the city's two border
crossings.

Chinatown -- called "La Chinesqua" -- has been losing its luster to
air-conditioned malls but the downtown cluster of one- and two-story buildings
still boasts a few dozen Chinese restaurants. Cantonese is spoken at the Monte
Alban apartments, four cinder-block buildings surrounded by a dirt road and
abandoned cars.

Writing on the gravestones of a downtown cemetery is Chinese.

The Chinese Association's two-story building occupies nearly a half-block of
Chinatown. On weekends, 90 children learn Chinese there. During the week, about
two dozen new arrivals learn basic Spanish to survive at their jobs, typically
at restaurants or shoe repair shops.

Mexicali has more than 300 Chinese restaurants, according to Maricela Gonzalez,
a historian at Universidad Autonoma de Baja California. The largest can seat
around 2,000 people.

Luis Wong, who teaches Spanish to new Chinese arrivals, says most of his
students come to Mexicali because they already have family here. Wong, 80, was
once one of them.

He left southern China's Guangdong province in 1940 to meet his father, a miner
who moved to Mexicali from the northern Mexican state of Sinaloa in the 1930s to
escape anti-Chinese sentiment there.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Map;
PHOTO: DAVID MAUNG -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Patricio Gamez, left, a retired wrestler, stands outside his apartment in
Mexicali, Mexico, as one of his Chinese neighbors walks by in January. An
estimated 35,000 residents of this border city of about 800,000 are of Chinese
descent. A fake terrorism tip brought attention to the community and the city's
role in a global smuggling route.
MAP: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A SMUGGLING ROUTE: CHINA TO U.S.
The long journey from China to the United States typically costs $30,000 to
$50,000
1) Immigrants leave from China
2) Fly to Paris or Milan
3) Take another flight to Mexico City
4) Reach Tijuana or Mexicali on the U.S. border
5) Inside the U.S., they go from Los Angeles to Seattle, San Francisco or
eastern U.S. coastal cities.
Source: U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 17, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEAF FILIPINO IMMIGRANT MAY BE ALLOWED TO STAY IN COUNTRY

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 285 words


Federal immigration officials have apparently agreed to drop deportation
proceedings against Gerardo Dulalia, a deaf Filipino immigrant, son of a World
War II veteran, who pleaded to stay in the United States based on humanitarian
grounds, the Mercury News has learned.

Last year, the Mercury News reported the plight of Dulalia, 39, who works as an
interpreter at Ohlone College in Fremont signing onto the hands of blind
students.

The Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement began deportation proceedings
against Dulalia after he lost a bid to become a permanent resident. Dulalia's
father, Pablo Zuniga Dulalia, who served with U.S. troops during W.W. II battles
in the Philippines, became a U.S. citizen in 1990. He died in 2000, and a year
later, his mother, a green card holder, also died.

Dulalia, who was born in the Philippines, came to Fremont in 1987 to study at
Ohlone College. His student visa has long expired, and without his parents'
help, he had no immediate recourse to make his immigration status permanent.

Marcia Perez, the San Francisco attorney representing Dulalia, declined to
discuss specifics of the case on Wednesday but confirmed that since the Mercury
News ran the story of Dulalia's case, she has been in discussions with
immigration officials.

"It appears there will be a positive solution to this situation," Perez said
Wednesday. "Humanitarian factors have been considered by ICE and they've
expressed a willingness to possibly allow him to stay."

Perez and Dulalia will appear in immigration court in San Francisco on April 1.

Lori Haley, a spokeswoman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement
in Laguna Niguel, declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               February 23, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE NEW ENTREPRENEUR;
'A NEW ERA': FREMONT'S MARINA AMERZADA IS ONE OF A QUICKLY RISING NUMBER OF
IMMIGRANT FEMALE BUSINESS OWNERS IN BAY AREA

BYLINE: STEVE JOHNSON, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1158 words


Outside of Fremont's Little Kabul neighborhood, few people probably took notice
of the tiny shop that opened recently with a vivid array of garara, shalwar
kamis and other clothing aimed at the area's sizable Afghan community.

Immigrant businesses have become common in the Bay Area. But what's interesting
about Nilare, the new shop on Fremont Boulevard, is that it's owned by a
foreign-born woman, 31-year-old Marina Amerzada. And that makes it part of a
trend that's catching the attention of demographers.

"Immigrant women entrepreneurs are rapidly making their mark in the U.S.
business sector, in every region of the country and across a large range of
industries," according to a new study by the Immigration Policy Center in
Washington, D.C. "The growing presence of these women in the ranks of the
self-employed suggests that we are in the midst of a new era."

Like many immigrant business operators, Amerzada, who opened her shop in
September, is struggling. She figures it will take her a year to become
profitable, and says she may take out a loan to make ends meet. Moreover, she
works long hours.

"I'm here seven days a week," she said, but quickly added, "I enjoy it. I've
always wanted to have my own boutique."

A lot of other foreign-born women share her entrepreneurial spirit. They are
starting businesses at a brisk clip.

More than 32,000 women-run enterprises were located in the Bay Area as of 2000,
the most recent data analyzed for the study. That was nearly 6 percent of the
563,814 such businesses nationwide.

From 1980 to 2000, the number of immigrant female business owners surged by 468
percent, significantly outpacing the 300 percent increase in immigrant male
business owners and 244 percent growth in U.S.-born female entrepreneurs.

The Policy Center study excluded those who worked less than 15 hours a week at
their businesses as well as businesses run by illegal immigrants. As a result,
it said the actual number of firms owned by foreign-born women nationally could
be well over 600,000.

Much of the growth in such businesses stems from the increasing numbers of
immigrants, most of them women lately. In 2003, for example, 287,958 women
immigrated to the United States, compared with 219,882 men.

Why women are coming here in greater numbers than men isn't clear. The trend has
become evident only in recent years and has been little studied,said the Policy
Center's director, Benjamin Johnson.

Jeanne Batalova, data analyst for the Migration Policy Institute in Washington,
said it probably results from two factors.

One is the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act, which made it easier for wives
and other family members to join men who came here earlier in search of jobs. In
addition, she said, the U.S. economy is shifting away from male-dominated
manufacturing toward service-related businesses that disproportionately attract
women.

The most popular businesses among immigrant women involve working for private
households, a category that includes providing cleaning services. But the Policy
Center study also found foreign-born women in a wide range of other enterprises,
from running restaurants and medical offices to technical consulting firms and
construction companies.

In many cases, the study said, immigrant women start businesses after becoming
disenchanted working for someone else. But their reasons vary widely.

"My father was a businessman and we have always had businesses in the family,"
said Amerzada, who estimates that Afghans comprise 80 percent of her customers.

She had several years of business experience under her belt of running a pizza
parlor with her former husband. When she needs help, she often calls on her
three sisters living nearby.

Other women have little or no experience in commerce, which makes it hard for
them to start businesses here. Even if they owned one in their native country,
they must learn U.S. laws and business customs.

"They don't have any idea of what is going on here," said Constanza Nieto, a
Colombian native who has her own consulting firm and works with the Enterprise
Network, a local non-profit group, helping immigrants start businesses.

Even so, Nieto added, "In this country you have more opportunity" because of the
availability of venture capital and other resources for women.

Josephine Hughes, who was 29 when she came to this country in 1983 from the
Philippines, said she has found a lot of help here, too. She credits affirmative
action programs for helping her Josephine's Personnel Services land work with
the city of San Jose, among other places.

But it's still largely a man's world and that's a difficult hurdle to overcome,
especially when the economy has been so weak lately, she added.

"Right now, we're OK," Hughes said. But "it will take me two to three years to
recoup the losses from the last four years."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
468    Rise in immigrant female business owners from 1980 to 2000
300    Rise in immigrant male business owners
244    Rise in U.S.-born female business owners
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
TOP 10 COUNTRIES OF BIRTH FOR IMMIGRANT FEMALE ENTREPRENEURS
Mexico       93,122   16.5%
S. Korea     34,437    6.1%
Vietnam      27,712    4.9%
Philippines  22,742    4.0%
El Salvador  21,039    3.7%
Germany      20,149    3.6%
Canada       18,414    3.3%
Cuba         16,563    2.9%
China*       16,313    2.9%
India        16,187    2.9%
Total       286,687   50.8%
*Does not include Taiwan or Hong Kong
..........................................................
TOP U.S. METROPOLITAN AREAS FOR IMMIGRANT WOMEN BUSINESS OWNERS
Los Angeles - Riverside - Orange County
Number of immigrant female owners
74,134
Percent of immigrant female owners
13.1%
Latino %
41.4%
Asian %
37.6%
...................................
New York - New Jersey - Long Island
Number of immigrant female owners
66,903
Percent of immigrant female owners
11.9%
Latino %
30.1%
Asian %
21.8%
.....................................
San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose
Number of immigrant female owners
32,129
Percent of immigrant female owners
5.72%
Latino %
6.3%
Asian %
45.4%
.....................................
Washington D.C.- Baltimore
Number of immigrant female owners
19,407
Percent of immigrant female owners
3.4%
Latino %
32.3%
Asian %
30.7%
.....................................
Chicago - Gary - Kenosha
Number of immigrant female owners
17,630
Percent of immigrant female owners
30.1%
Latino %
21.7%
Asian %
23.1%
.....................................
San Diego
Number of immigrant female owners
13,663
Percent of immigrant female owners
2.4%
Latino %
48.8%
Asian %
21.9%
Source U.S. Decennial Census 2000

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Charts (2);
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Marina Amerzada, who opened her shop in Fremont in September, says she figures
it will take her a year to become profitable, but says she enjoys owning her own
business.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Marina Amerzada, left, helps customers Naina Patel, center, and Nila Vikram
Patider shop for earrings.
PHOTO: SUSANNA FROHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
Marina Amerzada ran a pizza parlor with her former husband for several years
before opening her boutique, Nilare, in Fremont.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 12, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAWMAKERS AIM TO HELP IMMIGRANTS NATURALIZE;
STATE MEASURE WOULD COORDINATE AID

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 481 words


About half of California's immigrants who are eligible to become U.S. citizens
don't bother applying for naturalization, due in part, say advocates, to a
shortage of services that guide them through the complicated immigration
process.

Hoping to boost the citizenship rate, some lawmakers want state government to
take a more direct role in coordinating hundreds of community-based
organizations that provide programs such as civics classes, English instruction
and assistance with filling out immigration forms.

Details of a supportive state Assembly measure will be presented today at the
annual Citizenship and Immigrant Pride Day program in San Jose. The free event,
which provides citizenship orientation in 19 languages, will be from 9 a.m. to 2
p.m. at the Center for Employment Training, 701 Vine St.

The measure introduced in the Assembly last month by Hector De La Torre, D-South
Gate, and co-sponsored by Alberto Torrico, D-Fremont, would require the
Department of Community Services and Development to administer a "naturalization
services program," which would fund local governments and non-profit groups to
help legal permanent residents become citizens.

"We want to make sure the process is easier," said Torrico on Friday, "and that
there is no information barrier for people to become citizens."

AB 930 would cost an estimated $5 million to help 33,000 immigrants per year
move through the naturalization process.

To become a naturalized citizen, applicants must be legal permanent residents,
also known as green-card holders; read, write and speak English; and know about
U.S. history and government, among other requirements.

Hundreds of non-profit groups provide services and programs for citizens-to-be,
but the organizations work independently. Under the proposed law, known as the
New Californians Initiative, the state would require regional coordination of
the agencies. That way, immigrants will have better access to information that
will help them apply for citizenship, such as a list of adult schools that teach
English as a Second Language, or referrals to immigration attorneys.

"There's a big push for immigrants to be integrated into society, and yet we're
providing them with piecemeal services," said Larisa Casillas, policy director
for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose advocacy group.
"We know that when immigrants become citizens, that's the first step of their
journey to be involved in our community."

The proposal was partly modeled after a smaller but successful program sponsored
by Santa Clara County's Office of Human Relations. For eight years, the program
has coordinated a collaborative of non-profit agencies that help immigrants
become citizens.

The state measure was introduced in the Assembly on Feb. 18 and qualifies for
its first committee hearing as early as March 22.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 25, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SOLDIER DENIED ASYLUM IN CANADA;
OTHER WAR DESERTERS FEAR RETURN TO U.S.

BYLINE: BETH DUFF-BROWN, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


A U.S. Army paratrooper who fled to Canada to avoid serving in Iraq was denied
political asylum Thursday, dealing a blow to other deserters here who argue such
duty would force them to commit atrocities against civilians.

An immigration board ruled that Jeremy Hinzman had not convinced its members he
would face persecution or cruel and unusual punishment if returned to the United
States.

Seven other U.S. military personnel have applied for refugee status, and
Hinzman's attorney estimated dozens more are in hiding in Canada, waiting to see
how the government will rule. The attorney, Jeffry House, said Hinzman would
appeal the ruling.

"He is disappointed," House told CBC TV.

Immigration and Refugee Board member Brian Goodman, who wrote the ruling, said
Hinzman might face some employment and social discrimination. But "the treatment
does not amount to a violation of a fundamental human right, and the harm is not
serious," he wrote.

Canada opposed the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, and the decision could help ease
strained relations between the two governments.

Hinzman could face charges of desertion if sent home and would face up to five
years in prison. He and seven other U.S. military deserters are being
represented by House, a Wisconsin native who came to Canada in 1970 to avoid the
draft during the Vietnam War.

The Pentagon has urged the deserters to return to the United States and take up
their concerns at their respective military bases.

"We are an Army serving a nation at war," the Army said in a statement after
Thursday's ruling. "Each of us volunteered to serve, and the vast majority serve
honorably. AWOL and desertion are crimes that go against Army values, degrade
unit readiness and, in a time of war, may put the lives of other soldiers at
risk."

Hinzman, 26, lives with his wife and young son in Toronto, where Quakers and the
War Resisters coalition of anti-war groups have taken on his cause and provided
some shelter. Coalition supporters planned to demonstrate Thursday in front of
the U.S. Consulate in Toronto.

Hinzman fled Fort Bragg, N.C., in January 2004, weeks before his 82nd Airborne
Division was due to go to Iraq. He had served three years in the Army, but had
applied for conscientious objector status before his unit wassent to Afghanistan
in 2002.

Hinzman argued to the Immigration and Refugee Board in December that he would
have had to take part in war crimes if he went to Iraq, saying the war there is
illegal. He said he would be persecuted if forced to return to the United
States.

Hinzman also testified he had been willing to fulfill his full four-year
obligation to the Army, but not to participate in combat.

Hinzman's attorney estimated that as many as 100 American war resisters are
hiding in Canada, waiting to see how Hinzman's case plays out before coming
forward. He said 30,000 to 50,000 Americans fled to Canada during the Vietnam
War and were allowed to settle here, but Hinzman would have become the first
U.S. soldier to be granted political asylum in Canada.

Pfc. Joshua Key, 26, of Oklahoma City is the latest war resister to flee to
Toronto, arriving two weeks ago with his wife and four children.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: AMERICA IN IRAQ

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM ROSS -- GLOBE AND MAIL ARCHIVES
Canada denied asylum Thursday to U.S. soldier Jeremy Hinzman, shown in Toronto
in December.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 2, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE GIVES S.J. COUPLE PRISON FOR VISA FRAUD

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 555 words


A San Jose couple accused of stealing more than half a million dollars from
undocumented immigrants by falsely promising visas, jobs and work permits were
sentenced Friday to state prison.

Noel Ramayrat, 52, who was convicted last year of 60 counts of grand theft and
tax fraud, in one of the Bay Area's largest immigration fraud operations, was
sentenced to six years in prison plus three years of probation. His companion
and business partner, Mercedes Alcantara, 46, was sentenced to two years in
prison and three years' probation with credit for time served, for a conviction
on 28 counts of grand theft and tax fraud.

Before pronouncing his sentence, Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Kevin
J. Murphy excoriated Ramayrat.

"I don't believe for one minute that you didn't know you were practicing law
without a license," Murphy said. "You took the stand and you lied. You didn't
show any remorse whatsoever."

Ramayrat, visibly stunned, slumped in his chair and lowered his head.

On Friday, Ramayrat took the witness stand for the first time since his arrest
in late 2002 to ask for a lenient sentence. He offered an explanation, however,
that contradicted the testimony of dozens of witnesses during a 5 1/2-week
preliminary hearing last year. Ramayrat declared that he never presented himself
as a licensed lawyer in California and that he was helping immigrants; and that
his tax fraud convictions involved an accounting and management error.

Arguing that the information on certain immigration processes that he shared
with his clients was freely available in public, Ramayrat said, "I did not
intend to misrepresent myself or intentionally defraud these people."

A licensed lawyer in the Philippines, Ramayrat immigrated to the United States
in 1996 and began working as a paralegal with a local lawyer. Along with other
attorneys, he opened a business, advising immigrants on their applications for
visas and work permits. He and Alcantara also operated a job placement agency
for immigrants.

Family members of the couple were in the courtroom during sentencing, and some
broke down after Murphy imposed prison time.

According to court testimony of dozens of victims, the couple filed fraudulent
immigration applications for work permits and visas for busboys, kitchen workers
and others who were not qualified to receive them. Investigators said there were
hundreds of victims who fell prey to the schemes.

Deputy District Attorney Dale Lohman said the couple caused "devastating,
irreparable harm" to vulnerable victims. Lohman told the judge, "I think six
years is an absolute gift" for Ramayrat.

Lohman had asked the judge to sentence Alcantara to three years.

Anna Lissa Manuel, a funds analyst for Philippine Airlines, came to the United
States in the summer of 2001. On Friday, she testified she and her husband were
promised jobs and work visas by Empbase, the agency operated by Ramayrat and
Alcantara.

Manuel said they paid the couple $7,000, but neither the jobs, nor the work
visas, ever materialized.

With their immigration status in question, Manuel testified she and her husband
have been unable to work to provide for their two children.

Said Manuel, "Our family is suffering."

Murphy also ordered restitution for victims ranging from $500 to $5,000.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 5, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL SEEKS APOLOGY FOR DEPORTATION

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 399 words


A national immigration crackdown during the Great Depression forced hundreds of
thousands of people onto crowded trains to Mexico, and now a state senator wants
California to apologize for its role in those mass deportations.

Most of those deported were U.S. citizens and legal residents.

Sen. Joseph Dunn, D-Garden Grove, will present his so-called Apology Act at a
hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee today. His bill, SB 670, would require
the state government to acknowledge the illegal deportations took place,
apologize to the victims and their families, and construct a small plaque in
memory of the deportees -- most of whom are elderly or dead.

A second bill, SB 645, which could lead to reparations, is set for a hearing in
a separate committee Wednesday.

"There are many injustices that have occurred in the history of this nation and
this state, but only a few that rise to the level of illegal deportation," Dunn
said Monday.

This isn't the first time he proposed legislation related to the deportations,
which were authorized by President Hoover and occurred from 1929 to 1944 during
a wave of anti-immigrant sentiment. A bill to create a privately funded
commission to investigate the deportations, and another to allow victims to file
claims for reparation beyond the statute of limitations were vetoed by Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger last year.

And before him, Gov. Gray Davis also had vetoed a reparations bill.

During the federal government's Mexican Repatriation program, according to
Dunn's office, as many as 2 million people of Mexican descent were rounded up in
large groups at parks, hospitals and workplaces, forced onto locked traincars
and taken across the border. The deportations were carried out with the help of
local and state authorities, with many of the raids taking place in Southern
California.

Latino advocates back the new legislation because the deportations are "a very
core part of this state's history," said Steve Reyes, a staff attorney with the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

Very little has been printed in school textbooks about the deportations, part of
a program officially called Mexican Repatriation, he said.

"It is a very shameful part of California's history, and I think there's
sometimes a reluctance to dredge up old memories or feelings for a lot of people
that are alive today."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 7, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIRST, PLUG THE HOLES IN THE LAW;
WELL-THOUGHT REFORMS, NOT AMATEUR VIGILANTES, WILL BOOST BORDER SECURITY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS EDITORIAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 356 words


The self-appointed border guards who have descended on southern Arizona for a
middle-age, button-down spring break have made their point. Now they should pack
up, head home and leave the job of protecting the frontier to the pros.

Their point -- actually a valid half-point -- is that the underfunded U.S.
Border Patrol is doing a poor job of keeping illegal immigrants out.

There's no disputing that. Last year, half of the 1.1 million immigrants caught
trying to enter from Mexico were apprehended in Arizona -- many along the
23-mile stretch near Douglas that the Minuteman Project's troops chose for their
mobilization.

But what they won't acknowledge is that immigration reforms and a well-protected
border go together. Those reforms would let people in legally to do farm work
and other low-wage jobs they're now filling with winks and nods from their
employers. They would include a way, short of a blanket amnesty, for those
already in this country to earn permanent legal status.

Hundreds of Minutemen began their monthlong vigil this week. They're stationed
every quarter-mile. Some are carrying arms; others bear armchairs.

They're under orders to notify the Border Patrol when they see border crossers
and not to challenge them directly. So far, that's been the case. But border
protection is dangerous and volatile work and no place for vigilantes.

One reason there hasn't been a violent confrontation already is that the word
has spread in Mexico. The "coyotes" who traffic in human cargo are laying low;
fewer immigrants are trying to get across, for now.

But they'll return next month, when the Minutemen depart. Impoverished Mexicans
and Central Americans will continue to risk their lives in the desert for a
better life on the other side.

With Republican leaders conflicted over immigration, legislation remains stalled
in Congress. Even a bill to establish temporary visas for farmworkers, a
straightforward element of reform that has President Bush's backing, has gone
nowhere.

The nation needs secure borders, but it also need sane immigration laws.
Congress should fix the gaps in both.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: MATT YORK -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Linn Aitken of California, left, with Connie and Bill Foust of Arizona, scan the
U.S. border near Naco, Ariz., on Monday.
PHOTO: TOM HOOD -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Below, Chris King of Phoenix shows the badge he made before signing up for the
Minuteman Project on Friday.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 26, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB VOTES TO STAY NEUTRAL ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 95 words


Members of the Sierra Club voted overwhelmingly to stay out of the debate over
U.S. immigration policies and elected a new slate of board members that ensures
the venerable environmental group cannot face another takeover threat from
immigration-control advocates for at least two years.

Club election results released Monday showed the membership endorsed the Sierra
Club's established policy to remain out of the thorny issue by voting 102,455 to
19,898 against a proposed change to "recognize the need to adopt lower limits on
migration to the United States."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 16, 2005 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ARTWORK ANGERS GROUP OPPOSING IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: From Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 54 words

DATELINE: BALDWIN PARK


Members of a group that opposes illegal immigration protested a piece of public
art with inscriptions they claim are anti-American, sparking heated exchanges
with residents of this heavily Latino city.

Police in riot helmets separated the 40 members of Save Our State and scores of
residents during the rally Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: CALIFORNIA & THE WEST
IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 17, 2005 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN PRESIDENT SAYS HE 'REGRETTED' COMMENTS;
FOX TALKS WITH JACKSON AND SHARPTON

BYLINE: TRACI CARL, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 554 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


President Vicente Fox reversed course Monday and apologized for saying that
Mexicans in the United States do the work that blacks won't.

Despite growing criticism that included a stern U.S. response, Fox had
repeatedly refused to back away from the comments he made Friday, saying his
remark had been misinterpreted.

But in telephone conversations with the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Al
Sharpton, the president said he "regretted" the statement.

"The president regretted any hurt feelings his statements may have caused," the
Foreign Relations Department said in a press statement.

At a San Francisco press conference Monday, several Bay Area groups that aid
Latino immigrants called on Fox to issue an apology.

Mark Silverman, director of immigration policy for the Immigrant Legal Resource
Center called Fox's statements "inappropriate and insensitive," adding they
could "increase tensions instead of bringing about more understanding" between
African-Americans and Latinos."

Jackson told Fox that he was sure the president had no racist intent, and
suggested the two meet to discuss joint strategies between blacks and immigrant
groups in the United States, Fox's spokesman, Ruben Aguilar said.

Fox agreed to set up a visit to Mexico by Jackson, Sharpton and a group of
American black leaders.

Despite Fox's latest comment, many Mexicans -- stung by a new U.S. crackdown on
illegal immigrants -- didn't see the remark as offensive. Blackface comedy is
still considered funny in Mexico and many people hand out nicknames based on
skin color.

"The president was just telling the truth," said Celedonio Gonzalez, a
35-year-old carpenter who worked illegally in Dallas for six months in 2001.
"Mexicans go to the United States because they have to. Blacks want to earn
better wages, and the Mexican -- because he is illegal -- takes what they pay
him."

Earlier, Aguilar said Fox's comments were in defense of Mexican migrants as they
come under attack by new U.S. immigration measures that include a wall along the
Mexico-California border, and were not meant to offend anybody.

State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City
had raised the issue with the Mexican government. "That's a very insensitive and
inappropriate way to phrase this and we would hope" that the Mexicans "would
clarify the remarks," Boucher said.

Fox made the comment Friday during a public appearance in Puerto Vallarta,
saying: "There's no doubt that Mexican men and women -- full of dignity,
willpower and a capacity for work -- are doing the work that not even blacks
want to do in the United States."

The issue reflected Fox's growing frustration with U.S. immigration policy and
deteriorating relations between the two nations.

While Mexico has a few, isolated black communities, the population is dominated
by descendants of the country's Spanish colonizers and its native Indians.
Comments that would generally be considered openly racist in the United States
generate little attention in Mexico.

One afternoon television program regularly features a comedian in blackface
chasing actresses in skimpy outfits, while an advertisement for a small,
chocolate pastry called the "negrito" -- the little black man -- shows a white
boy sprouting an afro as he eats the sweet.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Mary Anne Ostrom contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EDUARDO VERDUGO -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
President Vicente Fox said he "regretted" a statement he made Friday in Puerto
Vallarta about black workers in the United States.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                May 29, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

CLASH ON IMMIGRATION IN LAS VEGAS;
GROUPS FAVORING TIGHTER BORDERS MEET AMID PROTESTS

BYLINE: CHRISTINA ALMEIDA, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS


Several anti-illegal-immigration groups convened Saturday in Las Vegas to
discuss efforts to tighten U.S. borders and to praise recent action by the
Minuteman Project, as a large group of Latino protesters denounced the
conference as racist.

The summit was hosted by the Las Vegas-based Wake Up America Foundation, whose
motto is "It's your country, take it back." Up to 1,000 people were expected to
attend the two-day meeting held at the Cashman Center in downtown Las Vegas.

Speakers from various groups addressed the crowd regarding problems with illegal
immigration.

"It's not just about poor immigrants coming to work," said Chris Simcox,
president of Minuteman Civil Defense and a co-organizer of the recent Minuteman
Project in Arizona. "It's about the world knowledge that our government can't
stop drug dealers. It doesn't give me a whole lot of confidence that they can
stop resourceful terrorists."

Simcox told the crowd that his group of 15,000 members is committed to securing
the nation's borders and will continue to plan actions in California and in
states along the Canadian border until the federal government begins military
patrols.

"We want the border secured. Nothing less will be accepted," Simcox said. "There
is no compromise."

Barbara Coe of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform called the border
situation a "very real threat to our sovereignty and our lives."

Coe mentioned several law enforcement officers, including Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Deputy David March, who were killed by Mexican nationals who later
fled to their country to avoid prosecution.

She blamed President Bush for refusing "to protect us from these foreign
invaders."

"He encourages more illegal immigrants to come here and take over, take our
money and our jobs," Coe said, drawing huge applause when she derided him as
"Senor Bush."

Outside, about 200 Latino protesters chanted "Racists go home" and waved U.S.
and Mexican flags. A small child carried a sign that read, "Racism is a deadly
plague."

"They're just trying to take a certain group, a certain ethnicity, and make them
the scapegoat," said Chelsie Campbell, a 25-year-old recent law school graduate
from Las Vegas. "Let's work together and find a solution."

Martha Moreno, 38, of Las Vegas carried a sign saying "Proud to be
Mexican-American." She said she braved the nearly 100-degree heat because she
believes all people have a right to make life better for their families.

"We all came to this country from other places in the world," Moreno said.
"We're all immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Capitol beat

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 16, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHORTER GREEN-CARD WAIT FOR REFUGEES WITH ASYLUM

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 689 words


As many as 180,000 political-asylum refugees in the Bay Area and across the
country who have been waiting a decade for green cards got some relief Wednesday
after a federal judge in Minnesota approved a court-ordered government plan to
reduce the backlog.

Under the terms of a court settlement finalized in Minneapolis, the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services will step up processing of
permanent-resident applications, or green cards, for tens of thousands of
immigrants in the United States who have been granted political asylum.

The agreement requires the government to reduce the backlog by more than
one-third in the next three years, which means processing 61,000 new green
cards. But the court-ordered reduction could be as much as half -- or more than
90,000 new green cards.

"It's in nobody's interest to have people sitting in limbo for a decade," said
Steve Baughman, a San Francisco attorney who represents hundreds of
political-asylum refugees in the Bay Area who have been waiting for years to get
their green cards.

"It was an absurd situation," Baughman said. "We were having to tell people to
come back in 10 years and we'll help you get your green card."

Lawyers, immigrants and their advocates in the Bay Area and the United States
praised the settlement, which stemmed from a 2002 lawsuit filed by the American
Immigration Law Foundation (AILF) against the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, the federal immigration agency now known as USCIS.

The class-action lawsuit was filed in Minnesota because one of the plaintiffs,
Venatius Nkafor Ngwanyia, a political refugee from Cameroon, lives in St. Paul.
The lawsuit alleged that the government failed to process the green-card
applications of Ngwanyia and other political-asylum refugees in a timely manner.
Ngwanyia has been waiting since 1996 for a green card.

Attorneys for Ngwanyia and the government agreed that part of the problem was a
yearly limit imposed by Congress of 10,000 green cards that can be issued to
those who have been granted asylum. Many more immigrants were granted political
asylum each year. The cap has now been removed.

"The delays have been so harmful," said Michele Garnett McKenzie, an attorney
with Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, a Minneapolis legal-aid group that
represents refugees seeking political asylum.

"These are people who fled terrible situations," McKenzie said. "They're trying
to build lives here and really can't do that until they're permanent residents."

They were unable to get school or home loans because of their temporary status,
were required to renew work permits every year and were turned away for good
jobs because employers preferred those with permanent status, McKenzie said.

It still will take years for many in the line for green cards, but the 10-year
wait they once faced has been reduced by at least three years.

"That's three years less," said Vladimir Ricaldi, who came from Peru in 1997 and
sought political asylum. "That's something!"

Ricaldi, 31, of San Mateo, was persecuted in Lima by the Maoist guerrillas
called Shining Path.

After a protracted court case, Ricaldi finally was granted asylum last year, and
recently his San Francisco attorney, Randall Caudle, filed green-card
applications on behalf of him and his wife.

"He's on the back end of the long wait list," Caudle said. "I can now get the
Ricaldis their U.S. citizenship before I retire, whereas before I could only
hope to get them green cards before retiring."

As part of the court settlement, Ricaldi and other political-asylum refugees
also will no longer be required to renew their work permits yearly. They will be
issued five-year work permits instead.

MORE INFORMATION
If you are refugee granted political asylum in the United States, and have a
pending application for permanent residency, or a green card, a settlement in a
federal immigrants' rights case could affect you and speed your application.

Details on the settlement are available on the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services Web site: http://uscis.gov/
graphics/lawsregs/
ngwanyia51005.pdf.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 25, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLERIC ADMITS ANTI-U.S. SPEECHES;
BUT HE SAYS HE CHANGED HIS VIEWS IN LODI

BYLINE: PETE CAREY, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 774 words


A Pakistani cleric admitted during a federal immigration hearing Friday that for
two months after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks he gave fiery speeches in
Islamabad against the United States and in support of Osama bin Laden and his
Taliban hosts in Afghanistan.

Then, in January 2002, he boarded a plane to California, where he replaced his
former teacher as imam of a Lodi mosque and had a change of heart.

"Here, there is respect for human values. Even animals are being taken care of,"
said Shabbir Ahmed, 32, who has been in Sacramento County Jail since his arrest
June 5 for overstaying his religious worker visa. "When I saw such a picture, my
mind changed."

Since then, he said, he has defended America on his regular trips to Pakistan,
where he was an imam in an Islamabad mosque for five years.

The cleric was swept up in an FBI investigation that led to the arrests of a
father and son who attended the Lodi mosque on charges of lying to the FBI about
the son's attendance at a terror training camp in Pakistan.

The case has sent a shock wave through the town of Lodi, where Ahmed is known as
a peaceful man who encouraged ecumenical activities with Jewish and Christian
congregations.

Clad in an orange Sacramento County Jail jumpsuit and testifying in a cramped
Immigration and Customs Enforcement courtroom in San Francisco, Ahmed said he
has no complaints about America, even about how he has been treated in jail.

Ahmed and Mohammad Adil Khan, 47, the imam whom he replaced, are fighting
deportation. Khan's hearing is Friday, and a hearing for Khan's 19-year-old son,
Mohammad Hassan Adil, is scheduled for Wednesday. Ahmed's hearing resumes Aug. 2
and will determine whether he can be released on bond.

The three were detained for violations of the terms of their visas after the
arrests of Umer Hayat, 47, and his 22-year-old son, Hamid, for allegedly lying
to the FBI about Hamid Hayat's alleged terror training in Pakistan.

Friday in Sacramento, a federal judge granted defense attorneys access to FBI
interviews with the Hayats. The FBI interviewed them June 3 and June 4 after
Hamid Hayat returned to Lodi after two years of living in Pakistan. The
government alleges he spent six months there learning how to kill Americans in
an Al-Qaida camp connected to a religious school he attended.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Peter Nowinski said he was acting "extraordinarily quick"
to provide "the most relevant" evidence to defense attorneys for the men who are
being held without bail at Sacramento County Jail.

At the San Francisco hearing, Ahmed's attorney painted a picture of his client
as a peaceful man who for the past 3 1/2 years has worked hard to bring people
together in Lodi, and who never belonged to a terrorist organization or
supported one, or had ever had any kind of military training. The lawyer,
SaadAhmad of Fremont, said the Lodi mosque applied for an extension of Ahmed's
visa last year before it expired.

Paul Nishiie, assistant chief counsel for U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, walked Ahmed methodically through some of the evidence gathered by
federal investigators.

Ahmed had studied at the Jamia Farooqia madrasah, or university, where Adil Khan
was his teacher and later his colleague when Ahmed joined the faculty. Khan's
father, Salimullah Khan, a prominent cleric and head of an association of
Pakistani madrasahs, founded and ran the Karachi school, which has about 2,000
students and teaches a conservative brand of Islam.

Nishiie described the Khans as close to the Taliban, and linked them to a group
the United States designated a foreign terrorist organization in 2004.

Nishiie said bin Laden had once thanked students at the Jamia Farooqia for their
support. Ahmed said it could have been for educating so many Afghan students.
Several former faculty members and students left to help the Taliban's
repressive regime, Nishiie said, one even becoming known as "the godfather of
the Taliban."

Ahmed left the Jamia Farooqia in 1996 or 1997 to become an imam in Islamabad.
Nishiie played a portion of an FBI interview with Ahmed in which he admitted
giving speeches in support of bin Laden and the Taliban and attacking Pakistan's
President Pervez Musharraf.

"You encouraged people to go to Afghanistan to defend the Taliban, defend Osama,
kill Americans?" asked Nishiie.

"I did not feel like that," Ahmed said. He said he wanted people to pressure the
United States not to bomb Afghanistan. "I was not the only one" making speeches.
"I may have said" such things, he conceded, but "sometimes you say something
when you are emotional."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Knight Ridder reporter Andrew LaMar contributed to this report from
Sacramento.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JOHN M. HARRIS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Attorney Saad Ahmad discusses the case of his client Shabbir Ahmed, 32 after a
hearing Friday in San Francisco.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 7, 2005 Thursday PENINSULA/S.F. EDITION

THREAT BY FORMER WORKER REPORTED;
TRIED TO EXTORT $25,000, BUSINESS OWNER SAYS

BYLINE: ELISE ACKERMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 175 words


The owner of a Palo Alto plumbing business has told police a former employee
tried to extort $25,000 from him.

David Bell said the employee quit last week, after working for about six months,
then called two days later claiming to have a video that proved Bell employed
undocumented workers.

Bell said all his employees have shown him working papers.

The employee who quit was surly and would arrive late and leave early, Bell
said. Bell tolerated him because he could do the job.

Bell said the former employee left a message on his cell phone last week, then
an unknown man called Monday and threatened his family and home. The second man
also mentioned the video, Bell said.

Sgt. Scott Wong said police are investigating the blackmail allegation but
aren't going to interview Bell's employees about their immigration status. "We
don't have a concern who he has working for him," Wong said.

Immigration laws are enforced by the federal Department of Homeland Security and
the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 9, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRYING TO CROSS BORDER, IMMIGRANT LOSES FAMILY;
SMUGGLER'S VAN CRASHED NEAR CHECKPOINT IN SAN DIEGO

BYLINE: ELLIOT SPAGAT, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Galdino Perez was crouched in the fetal position on the minivan floor when his
dream ended -- along with the lives of his pregnant wife and two children.

The family was crammed into a smuggler's van on what was supposed to be a trip
from the remote mountains along the California-Mexico border to Los Angeles and
a future of greater opportunity.

Confronted with a Border Patrol checkpoint, however, their driver swerved into
oncoming traffic, and Perez's life changed forever.

Perez remembers the van ceiling illuminated by a patrol car's flashing lights.
He clutched his wife and 11-year-old daughter as the driver "went faster,
passing more cars, passing more cars, passing." But when the lights went away,
the driver didn't slow, didn't stop his jerky weaving.

The van full of illegal immigrants slammed head-on into a pickup truck,
authorities say, killing Perez's 22-year-old wife of three years, his daughter
and 13-year-old son by another woman, and two other immigrants. Perez and five
others were injured in the June 30 crash.

The minivan driver -- identified as Fidel Wilfredo Gonzalez, 19, of Los Angeles
-- pleaded not guilty in his hospital room Wednesday to five charges of
second-degree murder.

Such crashes are a periodic feature of life near the border. Migrant rights
groups say the checkpoints endanger lives because smugglers try to evade them by
swerving into oncoming traffic, often at night, sometimes headlights off.

A Border Patrol spokesman said roadside checkpoints are a "critical enforcement
tool" in deterring human and weapons smuggling. Spokesman Mario Villarreal
wouldn't discuss any specifics of the crash or the survivors' future.

Perez, 32, had worked five years in the United States before he returned to
Mexico three months ago to fetch his children, hoping to provide them comforts
he could not in Mexico City.

"I wanted to be with them, to come here, to all be together," Perez said in
Spanish from his hospital bed at Scripps Mercy Hospital in San Diego.

He often cringed in apparent pain -- his ribs are injured and left hip required
an operation.

A native of Oaxaca state in southern Mexico who grew up in Mexico City, Perez
landed a $7.50-an-hour job washing dishes at a Mexican restaurant in Sacramento.
There he met his wife, Marta Alcala Estrada. Three years ago, they moved to
Dayton, Ohio, where Perez earned $8.50 an hour at a bacon processing plant.

About three months ago, the couple returned to Mexico City to pick up Perez's
children -- Nancy, 11, and Christian, 13. They were living with their
grandmother. He hadn't seen them in three years.

The family flew to the sprawling Mexican border city of Tijuana, just across
from San Diego, where they met a smuggler who promised passage to Los Angeles
for $1,500 each. They planned to resettle in Sacramento.

Perez recounted a journey that began June 30:

For about two hours, a pair of guides led them through wooded mountains east of
San Diego and across the border -- a stretch that became increasingly popular
when U.S. authorities beefed up enforcement in San Diego. The guides deposited
the groups at two-lane state Highway 94. About five minutes later, the 2005
Chrysler minivan arrived.

The driver ushered them in and said they were going to a hotel.

He was considerate at first, slowing down for a speed bump. Then things went
horribly wrong.

Perez couldn't see exactly what happened, but remembers the van picking up speed
and the lights flashing.

He clung to his wife and daughter, one stranger on each side of them. One row
back, his son was sandwiched between two cousins. The driver was silent.

After about two minutes, Perez said, the lights went out. The driver continued
mashing the engine. A minute more, the fatal crash.

The CHP identified the other driver as a 69-year-old San Diego woman who
suffered minor injuries. They said she had braked and tried to swerve her 2002
Ford truck out of the way.

Perez said he was anxious to learn the fate of his cousins.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SCOTT M. BOLLE -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rescuers scramble to aid victims of a crash between a minivan carrying illegal
immigrants from Mexico and a pickup truck near El Cajon on June 30. Five people
were killed and six were injured.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 13, 2005 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN FUGITIVE ARRESTED, DEPORTED

BYLINE: From the Associated Press and the Los Angeles Times

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 125 words

DATELINE: SOUTH GATE


A fugitive considered one of Mexico's most dangerous criminals was deported
Tuesday after being arrested nearly 19 years after a sensational armed escape
from a Mexican prison courtroom, immigration officials said.

Alfredo Rios Galeana was surprised by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents Monday afternoon at his home in South Gate, a Los Angeles suburb, said
agency official Virginia Kice.

Rios escaped from Mexico City's Southern Prison in 1986, one of a group of
inmates freed by armed assailants who burst in, tied up 20 people and used a
hand grenade to blast a hole in a wall, according to immigration agents and news
accounts.

He was returned to Mexico on Tuesday to face charges of robbery, homicide and
assault.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATE NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 15, 2005 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SALUTING A SOLDIER;
A MEXICAN IMMIGRANT WHO WAS INJURED WHILE FIGHTING IN IRAQ BECOMES A CITIZEN

BYLINE: KAREN DE SA, Mercury News

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 838 words


Nineteen-year-old Angel Gomez lost one-quarter of his skull in Iraq. His right
side is limp and, if he could recognize letters, he would read at a second-grade
level.

But on Thursday, the brain-injured Marine who survived an explosion outside
Baghdad had reason to celebrate. The sixth of Antonia and Paulino Gomez's eight
children became a U.S. citizen, in an expedited ceremony held in the
rehabilitation wing of Palo Alto's Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

A Mexican immigrant, Gomez joined 40,000 other non-citizens serving in the
military. Then, he became a more unfortunate statistic -- one of more than 8,000
service members injured by blasts in the Iraq war, typically from improvised
explosives.

Amid relatives, hospital staff and a tangle of reporters, the slight former
football star from Farmersville sat stoically in his wheelchair. He wore his
crisp dress blues adorned with a purple heart. A white plastic helmet completed
the outfit; Gomez needs protection until the top of his head can be surgically
repaired in a few months.

Meanwhile, he struggles to regain the basics: walking, talking, remembering.

Claude Laghi, a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services officer, prepped him
for the 10 a.m. ceremony. "You will be asked to raise your right hand -- or
whatever hand you can," Laghi quickly added, glancing down.

Gomez, sporting a neatly trimmed mustache and the passive face of a young man
who understands far more than he can express, didn't need to be told. He had
been practicing raising his right hand for weeks for just this moment. Gomez's
right arm and leg are weakened, not paralyzed, and he may one day regain full
function.

Shortly thereafter, David Still, deputy director of San Francisco's U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services office opened the ceremony: "Thousands of
immigrant troops are making extreme sacrifices for America," he said. "And
there's no more fitting way to recognize this than to expedite their
citizenship." Since 2002, service members have been eligible for expedited
citizenship if they speak English and have served for a year in the armed
forces. Hospital staff made sure Gomez's case got immediate attention.

When asked to take the oath for his new country, Gomez raised his left hand.
Even after all the rehearsing, it was too much of a struggle.

Gomez arrived at the Palo Alto VA hospital's "polytrauma" center -- one of four
in the nation -- after two tours of duty in Iraq. In these centers, severely
injured service members endure months of intensive rehabilitation and therapy.
Victims of traumatic brain injury are the most common. They often end up blind,
deaf and paralyzed. Many struggle to speak and face lifelong dependency. Their
heads are gravely deformed or carved up with scars.

Because of improved battlefield medicine and body armor, service members are
surviving blasts that once would have killed them. But they are livingwith the
consequences.

Gomez's large and loving family is trying to make the best of things. Paulino
Gomez, a 53-year-old landscaper who also is a U.S. citizen, brings recordings of
childhood favorites like "Los Dos Oros" to help his son's recovery. Antonia
Gomez, 52, posts herself bedside, gaining inspiration from the first time she
saw his right eye open -- a sign her child would survive.

She had been told Gomez might be deaf or have the intelligence of an infant,
"but we knew we hadn't lost him," she recalled. "He has a very strong spirit,
and we are a team."

Unable to speak when he arrived in Palo Alto on May 17, Gomez can now utter
short sentences in English and Spanish. He went from being bedridden to moving
freely in a wheelchair and hobbling on a walker.

His brain will continue healing for 18 months, said Harriet Zeiner, a clinical
psychologist who has cared for Gomez and almost 60 others like him since the
Iraq war began.

Zeiner is hopeful about Gomez's recovery, but worries about thousands of others
who may not get the intensive treatment they need. Blast victims who served as
reservists or in the National Guard often leave the war and return
unsuccessfully to civilian life.

Their spouses don't recognize them and their anger can be explosive. The
college-educated can't remember a simple shopping list. Often, blast victims are
misdiagnosed as having post-traumatic stress or psychiatric disorders, Zeiner
said.

Gomez still struggles to put his thoughts into words. But by all accounts, he
has made a remarkable recovery for a man who nearly died on the battlefield only
three months ago.

At age 17, he fought his parents' pleas to pursue business administration
studies instead of joining the Marines. He had a curiosity about arms, his
father said, and was determined to join the service.

But now, Angel Gomez said, he believes the war was not a good idea because so
many people are dying. "It's sad," he said. "I wish the war never started."

Gomez said his views changed when a friend died in the war. "That was it," he
said. "I was like, why?"

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
TEARS: Ernesto Rosales weeps as he congratulates his cousin Marine Lance Cpl.
Angel Gomez before Gomez was sworn in as a U.S. citizen Thursday in Palo Alto.
"I've been praying for him," Rosales said.
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
SIGNING: Marine Lance Cpl. Angel Gomez signs a document bearing his photograph
before being sworn in as a U.S. citizen. Gomez, a Mexican immigrant, lost a
quarter of his skull in Iraq.
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
HONOR: Marine Lance Cpl. Angel Gomez, who suffered a brain injury in Iraq and
wears a protective helmet, waits to be sworn in as a U.S. citizen Thursday in
Palo Alto. Since 2002, service members have been eligible for expedited
citizenship if they speak English and have served for a year in the armed
forces.
PHOTO: PAULINE LUBENS -- MERCURY NEWS PHOTOGRAPHS
WARMTH: Yeni Gomez kisses her brother Marine Lance Cpl. Angel Gomez after he was
sworn in Thursday.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 16, 2005 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LODI CLERIC, SON ABANDON EFFORTS TO STAY IN U.S.

BYLINE: JESSIE MANGALIMAN, Mercury News

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 588 words


A Lodi Muslim cleric and his son, caught up in a government investigation of
international terrorism, dropped their legal battle to remain in the United
States on Friday and agreed to return to Pakistan as soon as two weeks from now.

In a brief appearance in front of an immigration judge in San Francisco,
Mohammad Adil Khan, 47, and his son Mohammad Hassan Adil, 19, said through their
attorney that they had chosen to abandon their fight against deportation.

Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office (ICE) had
designated the father and son for deportation, accusing them of overstaying
their visas. Khan, who holds a doctorate in Islamic studies from the University
of Sindh in Pakistan, also was accused of lying on his religious visa about the
location of the mosque where he was to work.

Paul Nishiie, assistant chief counsel for ICE, said the government withdrew the
charge of lying as part of the agreement that Khan and his son will leave
voluntarily.

"This whole incident has caused a lot of turmoil in the family," saidSaad Ahmad,
a Fremont attorney representing the father and son. "In the interest of
everything, they've decided not to let this go on."

Khan and his son will return to Karachi, hoping to resume their religious work
at a mosque there.

Handcuffed and shackled, Khan, who wore a brown, jail-issue uniform, was
escorted out of the courtroom, smiling and saying "Thank you," to journalists.
He has a heart condition and the ordeal has worsened his health, Ahmad said.

Investigators and prosecutors have suggested that Khan and his son had links to
the Taliban, a terrorist group in Afghanistan, an allegation that their
attorney, Ahmad, vehemently denied.

"The government has no evidence of terrorism against my clients," Ahmad said.
"Because if it did, they would not be returning to Pakistan voluntarily. The
government would keep them here."

Virginia Kice, ICE spokeswoman in Laguna Niguel, said, "I think that's purely
speculative."

"Our goal all along was to remove these men from the United States," she said.
"This accomplishes this goal. It's a legal victory for the agency."

Khan arrived in the United States in 2001 on a religious visa, invited by the
Lodi Muslim Mosque to open a school in the area. His son, then a minor, joined
him two years later. Khan's hope was to teach a moderate interpretation of
Islam, Ahmad said.

But in June, Khan and his son were arrested by federal agents as part of a sweep
of an alleged terror cell based in Lodi. Another father and son, Umer Hayat, 47,
and his son Hamid, 22, were arrested by the FBI. Investigators said the Hayats
lied about the son's training at a terror camp in Pakistan.

Khan was the former imam of a mosque in Lodi where the Hayats worshiped.

A second cleric, Shabbir Ahmed, 32, also of Pakistan, was arrested in the same
investigation, also accused of overstaying his visa. When Khan left the Lodi
mosque to work in Sacramento, Ahmed replaced him.

Khan is a well-known cleric in Pakistan whose father, Salimullah Khan, head of
an association of Pakistani madrasahs, is a friend of Pakistan President Pervez
Musharraf, Ahmad said. Their relationship with the Hayats was purely
professional, and they had no knowledge of any terror activity, the lawyer said.

Ahmad said Khan and his son were innocent bystanders "caught at the wrong place
at the wrong time."

"Of course this is an injustice," he said. "These are people who came here to
spread peace and they're being deported."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: "These are people who came here to spread peace and they're being
deported."
Fremont attorney Saad Ahmad

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 13, 2005 Saturday MO1 EDITION

H-1B visa limits reached for '06;
BUSINESSES SEEK MORE POSITIONS

BYLINE: By Steve Johnson; Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 397 words


Federal officials said Friday that all 65,000 of next fiscal year's H-1B visas
for skilled foreign workers have been snapped up, the earliest that has ever
happened.

The announcement immediately prompted business interests to call for expanding
the number of visas offered, while opponents argued that the program should be
significantly scaled back.

The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service said it has received petitions for
all of the fiscal 2006 H-1B visas that become valid Oct. 1. Last year, the cap
for the visa program -- which is designed for foreigners with engineering,
computer science and other technical specialties -- wasn't hit until October.

Tracy Koon, director of corporate affairs for Intel of Santa Clara, said it is
seeking a number of highly educated computer engineers and others and can't find
them in this country.

''We don't have enough U.S. students going into these programs,'' she said.
''This is a competitiveness issue for us.''

A lot of other U.S. companies are in the same boat, according to Harris Miller,
president of the Virginia-based Information Technology Association of America.

''The H-1B visa program is important to U.S. competitiveness in high
technology,'' Miller said in a statement issued Friday. ''We believe a
significant increase is required to meet the need for specialized skills and
keep companies -- and, as a result, jobs for U.S. workers -- growing at a steady
pace.''

But Ira Mehlman, a spokesman with the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, said it's wrong for U.S. companies to be wooing foreigners when there
are so many skilled U.S. workers who have been laid off in recent years.

''Something is not right,'' Mehlman said. ''That's not the way the system ought
to work. Go find them, get them back, before you start looking all over the
world for workers.''

Congress has adjusted the annual limit on H-1B workers several times in recent
years in conjunction with the rise and fall of the economy. It boosted the cap
to 115,000 in 2000 and 195,000 in 2001, but then dropped it to 65,000 in 2004.

Under a law enacted last year, an additional 20,000 H-1B visas can be used for
foreign workers with master's or higher degrees from U.S. colleges and
universities. So far, 8,000 of those H-1B visas have been allocated for the 2006
fiscal year.

Contact Steve Johnson at sjohnson@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 23, 2004 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE FOREIGN WORKERS OK'D;
TECHIES WITH U.S. DEGREES CAN BE HIRED

BYLINE: SUZANNE GAMBOA, Associated Press

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress is letting employers hire an additional 20,000 foreign high-tech
workers under a special visa program after businesses reached the annual ceiling
on the first day of the government's fiscal year.

Businesses are limited to hiring no more than 65,000 workers annually through
the H1-B visa program.

They reached that figure in one day, Oct. 1, and immediately began complaining
they would lose talented university graduates and potential employees to
competitors overseas.

In response, as part of the $388 billion spending bill passed over the weekend
and awaiting President Bush's signature, Congress is exempting from the limit
20,000 foreign students with master's and above degrees from U.S. universities.

'Critical talent pool'

"This is a critical talent pool that American taxpayers have helped to educate,"
said Sandra Boyd, who chairs the Compete America coalition that lobbied for the
exemptions. "It's counterproductive to educate these students and then force
them abroad to compete against us."

The coalition includes companies such as Microsoft, Texas Instruments,
Hewlett-Packard and Motorola.

For example, of the 424 students who earned master's degrees in engineering at
the University of Texas-Austin last year, 228 were foreign students; of the 135
who earned doctorates in engineering, 81 were foreigners, Boyd said.

Dan Kane, a spokesman for the Homeland Security Department's Citizenship and
Immigration Service, said the exemptions for foreign students will be applicable
this year.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., led the effort to
include them in the spending bill.

Kane said his agency will release details on how employers can apply for visas
made available after Bush signs the bill, he said.

Specialty professions

The popular H1-B visas are granted to foreigners in specialty professions such
as architecture, engineering, medicine, biotechnology and computer programming.
Under the program, employers must pay foreign workers the prevailing wage for
their job fields and show that qualified U.S. workers are not being passed over.

Unions and other critics say the program allows businesses to fill jobs with
cheaper foreign labor.

Those who use the program say they can't find enough Americans with the
necessary math, science and engineering skills.

In addition, Congress doubled H1-B visa application fees from $1,000 to $2,000.
Small businesses with fewer than 25 employees pay fees totaling $1,250 for each
application. The legislation also expands the authority of the Department of
Labor to investigate employers.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 17, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EXPANDED H-1B VISA PROGRAM HITS SNAG;
REQUIREMENT FOR ADVANCED DEGREE DROPPED

BYLINE: KARL SCHOENBERGER, Mercury News

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1F

LENGTH: 995 words


Bureaucratic bungling has cast a cloud over implementation of federal
legislation intended to help Silicon Valley tech companies solve some of their
recruitment problems by expanding the controversial H-1B guest worker program.

Congress passed a measure in November allowing an additional 20,000 H-1B visas
above the annual 65,000-visa cap on the condition that the new visas be reserved
for applicants with master's or doctoral degrees from U.S. universities. The law
was a compromise between opponents of the H-1B program and businesses that
contend that U.S. industry suffers from a shortage of highly skilled labor.

But the federal agency in charge of issuing the visas shocked and confused both
sides in the debate by announcing on March 8 -- the day it was supposed to issue
rules on how to apply for the new visas -- that there would be a delay in
implementation. More important, it said applicants would not need advanced U.S.
degrees to qualify.

"It was mind-boggling," said Sandra Boyd, chair of Compete America, the lobbying
group that pushed hardest for the legislation's passage and has Intel, Oracle
and Sun Microsystems on its steering committee. "The agency changed the rules
for no apparent reason, and disrupted the recruitment planning of a lot of our
member companies."

Tracy Koon, a spokeswoman for Intel, said the company was very active in getting
the advanced degree requirements in the H-1B bill, and was disappointed with the
reversal.

"We were taken aback," Koon said "Our hiring strategy at this time is to look
for a high level of technical capability, and when we look at master's degree
programs we find fewer and fewer U.S. citizens. So we're waiting to getthis
clarified."

The U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services, the agency that administers the H-1B
program, has not issued a clarification of its March 8 bombshell. Chris Bentley,
spokesman for the agency, said officials at CIS, the Department of Homeland
Security and the White House Office of Management and Budget were meeting to
review implementation of the law.

"There have been issues of interpretation of the law involved here," Bentley
said. "But when it comes out, the guidance will be precise."

It seemed likely the requirements for advanced U.S. degrees will be reimposed,
at least temporarily, after Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas -- a key sponsor of the
original legislation -- held talks to sort things out with Michael Chertoff,
secretary of Homeland Security. CIS is an agency within the Homeland Security
Department.

"The secretary promised the congressman that the rules consistent with our
interpretation of the law will apply for 2005," Smith's office said in a
statement. "The secretary is currently reviewing how the law will pertain to
2006 and the congressman is looking forward to his reply."

Too many visas issued

Behind the snafu, critics of the agency say, is an administrative error that led
to issuing 10,000 too many H-1B visas for fiscal 2005, busting the legal cap of
65,000. CIS may have tried to conceal its mistake by using the new batch of
20,000 elite visas to absorb the ordinary applicants, critics charge.

CIS allegedly justified this sleight of hand after calculating that at least
20,000 of the applicants already admitted under the 65,000 visa quota were
believed to hold U.S. master's degrees.

Bentley acknowledged the extra 10,000 H-1B visas were a problem the agency was
dealing with. He said the error was the result of estimating the number of final
visa approvals generated out of a larger batch of applications.

Past experience, he said, led the agency to believe that if they approved
100,000 applications, there'd be a fallout and only 65,000 visas would be
issued.

Bentley had no comment on allegations the agency tried to fold the extras into
the new batch of 20,000 by voiding the education requirement.

"The USCIS has a fundamentally flawed control system," said Ron Hira, assistant
professor of public policy at Rochester Institute of Technology and co-author of
the book "Outsourcing America." "They shouldn't rely on guesswork when they
comply with the law that caps the number of H-1B visas, or try to cover their
tracks like this when they make mistakes. The cap is the only thing that really
protects the interests of American workers."

Cap exceeded in '99

Hira pointed out that the agency surpassed the cap at least once before, in
1999, and resolved the problem by moving the overflow into the quota for the
following year.

Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, scolded USCIS Director Eduardo Aguirre in a March
7 letter after learning about the agency breaking the H-1B cap.

"It discourages me to hear that Congress's limit may have been ignored" Grassley
wrote. "I expect a full explanation as to how the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Service approved more than the number of visas allowed, and what
plan is in place to make sure this doesn't happen again."

Grassley's staff said they haven't received a reply.

Demand for H-1B visas, especially by Indian software contractors, is so pent up
that the CIS stopped taking applications for the 65,000 quota on the first day
of the program year on Oct. 1. Lack of availability of H-1B visas has led the
so-called body shops to turn to the L-1 visa, which allows an employee
transferred within a multinational company to work in the United States.

The H-1B visa is used not only by high-tech companies but also in a variety of
fields such as health care. Hospitals, for example, use them to hire nurses in
the Philippines and other countries to fill a shortage in the United States.
University research laboratories use H-1Bs when they retain post-doctoral
fellows.

The additional 20,000 visas for applicants with U.S. advanced degrees
wasoriginally proposed in the H-1B Visa Reform Act of 2004, a House of
Representatives bill that was amended to the Omnibus Appropriations Act for
fiscal 2005, which President Bush signed on Dec. 8.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                       August 19, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

Ads target illegal crossings;
U.S. AIMS TO PREVENT MEXICANS FROM RISKING LIVES, INCLUDING KIDS'

BYLINE: By Elliot Spagat; Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 463 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Inspectors at the U.S.-Mexico border found one 14-year-old girl strapped under
the metal bars of a car seat, the vehicle's driver sitting on top of her.
Another time, they found a young boy hidden inside a gas tank, his jeans and
T-shirt soaked with fuel. On still another occasion, a 3-year-old girl had been
stuffed inside a pinata.

The cases illustrate what authorities say is an alarming practice of immigrant
smugglers stuffing children into all kinds of dangerous vehicle compartments,
including trunks, dashboards, engines and gas tanks.

In response, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is launching an unusual
Spanish-language radio and television campaign aimed at deterring Mexicans from
risking their lives and those of their children.

In one television spot, a young girl is shown gasping for air inside a car trunk
while her mother bangs desperately on the lid as the vehicle remains snarled in
heavy traffic.

In a radio spot, a smuggler assures a woman he has years of experience in hiding
people.

''Don't worry, everything will be OK,'' the mother tells her fearful daughter.
''This man will take care of you.''

The TV and radio spots were unveiled Thursday at a news conference at San
Diego's San Ysidro border crossing, the nation's busiest. Their release
coincides with the launch of another slickly produced, Spanish-language media
campaign by the U.S. Border Patrol to discourage illegal immigration and call
attention to the dangers of clandestine border crossings.

Those television spots -- which invoke images of a graveyard and funeral
procession -- began airing last week in the Mexican state of Michoacan and were
due to begin this week in U.S. cities, including Los Angeles, Chicago and
Houston. The campaign unveiled Thursday will target cities closer to
California's border with Mexico.

Nearly 6,500 children were arrested at California border crossings in the
12-month period ending Sept. 30, 2004, a 17 percent increase from the previous
year, according to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection bureau's San Diego
office, which is sponsoring the latest campaign. About 4,200 were arrested from
October through June.

So far, no one has died in California, but officials say it's only a matter of
time. In August 2003, authorities discovered a 12-year-old Mexican girl who had
spent nearly two days crammed in the side panel of a van that was seized and
stored in San Diego. She survived.

The Border Patrol's $1.5 million campaign, called No Mas Cruces en La Frontera,
or No More Border Crossings, marks the first time the agency has bought airtime,
said Gloria Chavez, one of the organizers. Customs' San Diego office had no
money to produce its ads or buy airtime so the spots were donated by Univision
Communications.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 4, 2004 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINOS STUNG AS GOVERNOR VETOES BILLS;
MOVES COULD COST HIM POLITICALLY

BYLINE: MICHELLE MORGANTE, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 639 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Last year, as he ran for governor criticizing the passage of a law that would
allow illegal immigrants, most of them Latino, to get driver's licenses, Arnold
Schwarzenegger was criticized for not being sensitive enough to Latino issues.

Now, after his round of bill signings and vetoes as governor, that criticism has
emerged again.

Bills championing causes important to many Latinos -- such as a revived driver's
license bill to replace the law repealed early in Schwarzenegger's
administration or reparations for Americans illegally deported to Mexico in the
1930s -- were vetoed by Schwarzenegger last month.

That's why some observers and legislators said the governor missed a chance to
win favor with the state's largest ethnic group, a move that could cost him
politically.

In addition to vetoing the driver's license bill, which Schwarzenegger said
would weaken national security, he vetoed bills to allow survivors of the forced
repatriation to Mexico the chance to file claims against the state.

Other vetoes prevented the creation of an advisory commission on Latino affairs;
a ban on grape growers requiring farmworkers to taste unwashed grapes in the
field; and required minimum rest periods for hotel maids in
temperature-controlled break rooms.

"It was very disappointing that so many of these bills were in fact vetoed,"
said Francisco Estrada, public-policy director for the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

Margita Thompson, Schwarzenegger's press secretary, disagreed with the
perception there was an anti-Latino cast to the governor's vetoes.

Schwarzenegger, she said, is addressing the needs of the state as a whole, with
his greatest attention going toward improving the climate for businesses and
jobs and strengthening education, which will benefit all Californians regardless
of ethnic group.

The governor, Thompson said, backed bills that will help Latinos, such as laws
to provide more housing options for farmworkers, assistance for low-income home
buyers and victims of hate crimes, and legislation to help cover the costs of
treating people exposed to pesticide drift.

Still, Estrada said, the veto of the bill regarding the forced deportations,
which may have affected as many 2 million people nationwide, particularly stung.

That bill, written by Sen. Joe Dunn, D-Garden Grove, would have givensurvivors a
two-year window in which to file claims. It was modeled after a law to help
victims of the World War II internment of Japanese-Americans and others, Estrada
said.

It would have been a harmless and fruitful gesture for the governor to allow
establishment of the privately funded commission to investigate the
deportations, Estrada said.

"We would have thought at the very least, since so very little is known about
this particularly shameful period in history, that the commission bill would
have been signed," he said.

Dunn said he believes Schwarzenegger vetoed the measures to avoid putting the
state at risk financially for reparations to the victims, which he called
"hypocrisy at its worst."

"An injustice is an injustice," Dunn said, "and it must be corrected the way
we've done it for other survivors, to give them their day in court."

Schwarzenegger's veto message said no law was needed to create the commission,
which Dunn called "nonsensical."

The senator said he would raise the issue again in January, just as supporters
of the driver's license bill said they would try again.

Harry Pachon, president of the Los Angeles-based Tomas Rivera Policy Institute,
said Schwarzenegger's vetoes of bills dear to Latinos were "drops of water" that
will build opposition to him.

"He's going to have to overcome that sort of nagging suspicion that he
automatically vetoes anything that comes up that's tied to Latinos," Pachon
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: DAMIAN DOVARGANES -- ASSOCIATED PRESS ARCHIVES
The governor's veto of a bill that would have let undocumented immigrants obtain
driver's licenses drew protests in Los Angeles.
PHOTO: Schwarzenegger
Rejected bills on immigrant driver's licenses, reparations.

                     Copyright 2004 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 17, 2005 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE STOWAWAYS FOUND ON CONTAINER SHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 120 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thirty-two Chinese men were found inside two cargo containers on a ship arriving
at the Port of Los Angeles from Hong Kong, authorities said.

The suspected illegal immigrants were discovered Saturday night when a crane
operator saw three men climb out of a container on the Panamanian-flagged NYK
Athena, said Los Angeles Port police Lt. Titus Smith.

The 28 men and four male teenagers appeared to be in good health and were being
held at a federal detention center pending an immigration hearing.

The men had apparently been in the 40-foot containers for 10 days with a supply
of food, water, sleeping bags and battery-powered fans.

Authorities do not believe the ship's crew knew about the stowaways.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                        July 17, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

Group watching border in California;
30 VOLUNTEERS MET BY PROTESTS

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 404 words

DATELINE: CAMPO (AP)


Volunteers patrolled remote mountains outside San Diego for human traffickers
and drug smugglers Saturday, launching a campaign modeled after an effort in the
Arizona desert to draw attention to the nation's porous border with Mexico.

Jim Chase, a former Arizona Minuteman volunteer who cut ties with that group's
leadership, is leading California Border Watch, which gathered Saturday to
patrol a 26-mile rural stretch of rolling hills from Jacumba to Tecate through
Aug. 7.

Chase, a 58-year-old retired postal worker from Oceanside, said he and others
will carry guns for self-defense but will not initiate attacks.

''The guns are for one reason -- to keep my people alive,'' he said in an
interview.

About 30 volunteers came out Saturday to join the patrol, Chase said. A loud
group of protesters, however, outnumbered the volunteers, and Chase temporarily
drove away from the border in the afternoon to chants of ''racists go home.''

Earlier this week, the Web site for Chase's group urged volunteers to bring
baseball bats, mace, pepper spray and machetes. Chase said he removed those
items after the U.S. Border Patrol expressed concern.

The group has set up headquarters outside the Veterans of Foreign Wars post in
Campo, an unincorporated mountain village of about 1,200 people about a mile
north of the Mexican border.

A group of about 100 migrant activists staged a rally Saturday against the
volunteer patrol, said Stan Isham, a supervisory Border Patrol agent. The rally
was civil and no problems were reported, Isham said.

Rich Macgurn, a human rights activist with Gente Unida (People United), said the
number of patrol volunteers was ''pretty scarce'' and that protesters had
spotted only a few of them.

The Border Patrol was setting up a command post outside its Campo station, and
San Diego Sheriff Bill Kolender said deputies would closely monitor the area.

''We will not tolerate any kind of hate crimes, we will not tolerate any
violations of the law, and we will see to it that the Border Patrol is able to
do their job in a safe manner,'' Kolender said.

Chase said he expected 100 and 200 volunteers to join the patrol throughout the
three-week vigil.

Volunteers will call the Border Patrol if they spot illegal border crossers,
Chase said. He won't chase illegal immigrants but said others might.

''If somebody's stupid enough to do it, I'm not going to stop them,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      August 30, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

Exploited migrants need help from state;
ASSEMBLY BILL SIMPLIFIES PROSECUTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 199 words


Lured by the promise of a better life in a new country, desperate people can
find themselves forced into prostitution or sweatshop labor, with the club of
exposure and deportation held over their heads.

In the United States, some 10,000 people may be victims of such human
trafficking at any one time, according to the Human Rights Center at the
University of California-Berkeley.

Although federal anti-trafficking legislation was enacted in 2000, the U.S.
Department of Justice says prosecution would be easier if states enacted their
own laws.

In California, that means passing AB 22, the California Trafficking Victims
Protection Act, by Assemblywoman Sally Lieber, D-San Jose. The bill should come
before the state Senate within the week.

AB 22 would establish human trafficking as a separate offense. Currently,
prosecutors have to rely on laws against false imprisonment or involuntary
servitude. A conviction would open the way for victims to receive federal
assistance. Under this bill, victims also could sue their captors, to deny them
the profits of their crime.

Human trafficking is a modern day version of slavery. Prosecuting it should be
made as simple as possible.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 10, 2005 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SURVIVOR OF SMUGGLING ATTEMPT HAD CALLED 911

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 65 words

DATELINE: TEXAS


A Honduran immigrant who survived the nation's deadliest human-smuggling attempt
described Wednesday how he grabbed a cell phone and made two futile calls to 911
for help.

The testimony -- a recording of the calls made by Matias Rafael Medina Flores --
came in the trial of Tyrone Williams, who is accused of abandoning the truck in
south Texas and causing 19 immigrants to die in 2003.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATIONAL NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 174 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 12, 2005 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN JAPAN PRESENTS FORMIDABLE CHALLENGE;
BUREAUCRACY, TRADITION SLOW NATION'S EFFORT TO AID FEMALE WORKERS

BYLINE: SHARON NOGUCHI AND EMI DOI, Knight Ridder

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


Angel Kiss, Zeus and cabarets that offer "live love" still beckon customers in
Kabukicho, Tokyo's infamous red-light district. But near-daily police and
immigration raids have banished the women who once openly solicited potential
customers on the street.

Humiliated by international criticism of its commerce in girls and women, Japan
last year began to clamp down on human trafficking. Yet the tougher laws that
are expected to pass next month face huge obstacles. Japan must reorient a
slow-moving bureaucracy, overcome widespread social acceptance of sex for hire,
and take on the powerful sex industry and the criminal groups that control it.

Marisela -- not her real name -- entered Japan on a tourist visa procured by a
recruiter. The waitress job that she thought would support her two daughters in
the Philippines turned out to be a bar-hostessing job that included being sent
out on calls with customers. Like most women in the industry, she was moved from
place to place and sometimes was terrified. "I thought if I complained, I would
get killed," she said.

Thousands of Mariselas, desperate to earn money for their families, slip into
Japan on short-term visas or with falsified passports. Told that they have to
pay off debts of sometimes 5 million yen ($47,600), they're held captive, beaten
and controlled by threats to their families at home, anti-trafficking groups
say.

Estimates of the number of victims vary wildly. The National Police Agency
identified 79 in 2004 from among arrested illegal foreigners. The Organization
of American States estimates that 1,700 girls and women from Latin America have
been sold in Japan. Anti-trafficking groups say there are more than 100,000
victims, mostly Thais, Filipinas and Colombians -- but also Russians, Chinese,
Koreans, Taiwanese and other Southeast Asians.

Until now, police dealt with the problem by arresting the victims as illegal
immigrants, jailing and deporting them as soon as they presented enough money
for airfare home.

Trafficked women often live brutal, desolate lives, forced into having
unprotected sex with sometimes dozens of customers a day, say those who work
rescuing the women.

"The Japanese are the coldest people, without any heart, that can possibly exist
in the world," one girl, who arrived at age 16, wrote in a statement after she
fled to the Colombian Consulate. "Besides the mafia who own us, on the streets
they treat us as criminals and beat me when I don't earn enough money. They
force us to do horrible, repulsive things, and often the police come in, showing
their badge, and force us to service them for free."

The United States, the International Labor Organization and other groups have
singled out Japan for harsh criticism. A U.S. State Department report last year
demoted Japan to a "watch list" of foot-dragging governments -- the same ranking
as Laos and Russia -- in human trafficking.

Globally, the International Labor Organization estimates that 12.3 million
people are victims of forced labor, including 2.4 million trafficking victims --
a majority of them in the Asia-Pacific region.

The 2004 State Department report jolted Japan into speeding up reform.

This year's State report, released June 1, credited Tokyo with progress in
addressing the problem.

Two months ago, the government began cutting back on entertainer visas, which
last year were issued to 80,000 people, mostly Filipinas. Those were a sham,
said Hidenori Sakanaka, a former head of the Tokyo Regional Immigration Bureau.
"The women are ordered to become hostesses, even though they are invited as
singers or dancers, and end up in prostitution," he said.

After his agents embarked on an aggressive campaign 10 years ago, arresting
illegal entertainers as well as club owners and brokers, he received irate phone
calls from politicians and anonymous threats on his life, he said. "Trafficking
is the shame of Japan," he wrote in a recently published book.

For more than a year, immigration and police officers have been arresting
thousands of undocumented workers, including trafficking victims. To live up to
an October 2003 pledge to cut in half the population of illegal foreigners in
Tokyo, then estimated at 125,000, officers have staked out stations and streets
populated by Third World migrants.

Agents are so busy that the immigration jails are full.

To have an impact, authorities will have to tackle the most difficult problem of
all: challenging the Japanese yakuza and their foreign partners who profit from
the trafficking.

Last year, 46 people were found guilty of trafficking-related crimes. Sentences,
however, sometimes have been light.

New laws criminalizing human trafficking and beefing up penalties will allow
authorities to crack down on brokers. Currently, immigration agents who record
victims' testimonies can arrest only the visa violators, not the traffickers.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: TORIN BOYD -- KNIGHT RIDDER
The Kabukicho quarter is a major entertainment hub that contains Tokyo's
red-light district, recently the scene of immigration raids as Japan tries to
confront its powerful and entrenched sex industry.

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
