
                               1 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday

Border crossers get caught, slip away;
NO PLACE TO HOLD ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words


Beefed-up enforcement at the U.S.-Mexico border since Sept. 11, 2001, has
substantially increased the number of arrests of illegal immigrants, but tens of
thousands of captured non-Mexicans continue to be released into the United
States because there is no place to hold them, according to experts and
immigration officials.

The vast majority simply slip away inside the country after being issued a
``notice to appear'' for a deportation hearing -- documents known to Border
Patrol agents as ``notices to disappear.'' The success of border crossers who
stay in the United States through this ``catch-and-release'' process has
encouraged others who hope to enter the country the same way.

In a dozen speeches since October, President Bush has vowed to replace
catch-and-release with the ``catch-and-return'' of 160,000 ``other than
Mexican'' (OTM) immigrants arrested each year. The goal is to deny court
hearings to all but asylum-seekers, speed deportations and make the most of
limited detention space in jails, prisons and immigration centers.

But as Washington debates the overhaul of the nation's immigration laws and Bush
prepares to address the nation on border protection Monday, the persistent
catch-and-release problem is a reminder of costly and unintended consequences of
past enforcement efforts.

Even if authorities overcome operational and legal hurdles to curb the flow of
people from El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and other countries, experts say
they will be addressing only a tiny sliver of the illegal immigration problem.
The U.S. Border Patrol arrested nearly 1.2 million people last year -- the vast
majority of them Mexicans who were returned across the border -- and estimates
that 500,000 others evaded capture.

``What Congress has built is one of the most expensive revolving doors in the
world,'' said Victor Cerda, former chief of staff of the Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency. Without broader changes, he said, ``You're going to be here
in 10 years, with another 20 million aliens.''

Since the founding of the Department of Homeland Security, which sought to deter
illegal crossings with a show of force, arrests of non-Mexican border crossers
have tripled, from 49,545 in 2003 to 155,000 in 2005. But there has not been a
corresponding support for detention beds, courts, inland enforcement or
diplomatic and administrative reforms.

As a result, the spike in arrests backfired, because there was no place to put
the tens of thousands of new detainees. Overwhelmed immigration courts have been
unable to keep up.

Nor could the Border Patrol immediately send non-Mexicans back to Mexico, like
most of the people it catches each year, who are free to simply try to cross the
border again. Mexico does not accept other countries' nationals, forcing the
agency to house them at an annual cost of $35,000 per bed.

As arrests climbed last year, Border Patrol agents released 70 percent of
non-Mexicans into the country. Of those released and later ordered to leave the
country, only 18 percent do.

Federal statistics show the result, which has enraged border communities. Once
arrested and released, the number of illegal immigrants who failed to appear in
court more than tripled from 29,550 in 2003 to 97,868 in 2005, or 60 percent of
cases, up from 32 percent.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

Students protest immigration reform;
DEMONSTRATIONS SMALLER THAN ON MONDAY

BYLINE: Becky Bartindale, Mercury News

LENGTH: 807 words


Students around California continued protesting proposed immigration laws
Friday, walking out of Los Altos High School and marching noisily down
restaurant-lined Castro Street in Mountain View, as larger protests unfolded in
San Diego and Bakersfield.

Schools had girded for demonstrations and walkouts today -- Cesar Chavez Day --
and warned students to stay in class.

More than 60 students from Los Altos High School left the campus at lunchtime
and marched to City Hall in downtown Mountain View carrying banners against HR
4437, a comprehensive immigration bill that passed the Senate Judiciary
Committee Monday with modifications.

``I'm an immigrant,'' said Martha Gomez, 16, straining to be heard over her
shouting classmates. ``We're going to be criminals for nothing we've done. We
came with our parents; we didn't have a choice. We have been studying here and
most of our parents pay taxes.''

The students, who carried banners decrying the proposed law, were accompanied by
a security guard from the school who came along to make sure the students stayed
on the sidewalk and avoided injury.

``I have to give a lot of credit to the students,'' said the guard, Genaro
Quintana. ``They are getting a lot of support from cars honking.''

The students congregated outside Mountain View City Hall, chanting and shouting.

``It puts a smile on my face every time I hear them cheer,'' said Patty Juanes,
who works in the city clerk's office. Of all the groups that have protested
there, Juanes said, ``they are by far the loudest.''

In San Jose's East Side Union High School District, where more than 200 students
walked out Monday, students heeded teachers' warnings against doing it again
Friday, said Alan Garofalo, assistant superintendent for operations in the East
Side District.

At one campus, Piedmont Hills High School, about 20 students out of 2,200 walked
around campus protesting for about half an hour, he said, then administrators
ushered them to class.

Thousands of students were reported demonstrating around the state Friday, in
groups large and small. An estimated 1,500 students marched in San Diego,
distributing leaflets explaining the bill, which cracks down on illegal
immigration and those who aid it. Another 1,000 were reported marching in
Bakersfield, but protests and walkouts in the sprawling Los Angeles Unifed
School District appeared to have died down.

The demonstrations carry consequences for some students and schools.

While schools can collect state attendance funding when floods, plagues and
earthquakes keep kids out of class, student protests, no matter how heartfelt,
do not qualify.

In a letter dated Thursday, state Superintendent Jack O'Connell said schools
won't receive state waivers which would allow them to collect average daily
attendance money for the absent students.

Even as the protests continued Friday, educators were bemoaning the potential
loss of tens of thousands of dollars in average daily attendance money for
students who took to the streets.

Many students will pay a price, as well, for following their consciences or
their friends off campus.

An estimated 250 students from the East Side Union High School District left
school for protests Monday. And about 50 students marched to San Jose City Hall
the same day from Hoover Middle School and Lincoln High School in the San Jose
Unified School District.

The students will make up the lost time in after-school detention or at Saturday
school, spokespeople for both districts said.

About 50 students at Pathfinder High School, a charter school in San Jose, will
not be punished, said executive director Teresa Robinson. All but a handful of
the school's students left campus to protest after attending the morning
session. They were accompanied by the principal and a teacher for safety.

``They felt strongly they needed to march,'' Robinson said, noting that many
students and their families would be affected if the bill becomes law. ``We
didn't punish them for that reason. We felt every single one of them was acting
appropriately and out of conviction.''

Whether schools actually will lose state attendance money for students who
walked out will depend on how long the students stayed away.

``It depends on what time and how long these youngsters left -- whether the
majority of the day was completed,'' said Garofalo, from the East Side district.
``It is a very difficult time to experience a hiccup of that nature because,
frankly, every dollar counts.''

If all 250 of the East Side's student protesters were considered absent, the
district would lose about $7,500 for that day. San Jose Unified would lose about
$1,400 because fewer students participated.

``It's counterproductive,'' Garofalo said.

Mercury News wire services contributed to this story.

Sharon Noguchi contributed to this story.

Contact Becky Bartindale at bbartindale@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 17, 2005 Saturday

Controlling the border;
HOUSE DEBATES HOW TO SLOW ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Jim Abrams, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 377 words


The House struggled Friday over the best way to slow illegal immigration in
legislation seen as a prelude to a tougher debate next year over what to do with
the 11 million undocumented people already in the country.

The House legislation, billed as a border protection, anti-terrorism and illegal
immigration control act, includes such measures as enlisting military and local
law enforcement help in stopping illegal entrants and requiring employers to
verify the legal status of their workers. It authorizes the building of a fence
along parts of the U.S.-Mexico border in California, Arizona, New Mexico and
Texas.

But Republican leaders wouldn't allow a vote on a volatile proposal to deny
citizenship to babies born in this country to illegal immigrants. And they put
off consideration of a guest worker program, which President Bush and many
lawmakers say must be part of a lasting solution to the illegal immigrant
problem.

The issue next moves to the Senate, where Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.,
says he will bring up immigration legislation in February that will provide a
framework for guest worker ideas.

Nobody is advocating the deportation of 11 million illegal immigrants, said Rep.
Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., sponsor of a guest worker measure. Without a temporary
worker program, he said, ``We simply won't enforce the law, and that's the dirty
little secret here.''

While many agree with Flake, there are wide differences on the details of a
guest worker program. Some lawmakers would require those in the country
illegally to leave before applying for such a program, arguing that
counterproposals allowing those already here to seek legal status is equivalent
to amnesty.

The House bill makes unlawful presence in the United States, currently a civil
offense, a felony. Democrats protested the change in legal status for people who
overstay their visas by leading the fight to defeat an amendment that would have
reduced the crime from a felony to a misdemeanor, and reduced the maximum
sentence from a year to six months.

The most sweeping provision of the House bill would require all employers in the
country, more than 7 million, to submit Social Security numbers and other
information to a national data base to verify the legal status of workers.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 17, 2006 Friday

Immigration compromise near

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 424 words


Senators struggling to craft a comprehensive immigration overhaul neared a
breakthrough Thursday with a tentative agreement that would put millions of
illegal residents on a path toward permanent residency and U.S. citizenship.

The fragile accord infused new momentum into the Senate Judiciary Committee's
efforts to shape legislation before the full Senate embarks on a two-week debate
on immigration beginning March 27. But participants on both sides of the
volatile issue acknowledge that the ultimate outcome in Congress is fraught with
uncertainty.

President Bush has called for a comprehensive overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws to toughen border enforcement and create a temporary
guest-worker program that would cover undocumented workers now in the country.

The House of Representatives already has passed an immigration bill that
toughens border enforcement but does not include a guest-worker provision, which
Republican conservatives have denounced as a form of amnesty that rewards
illegal behavior. Pro-immigrant groups say the bill falls far short of the
overhaul they say is needed to address the more than 11 million illegal
immigrants now in the United States.

But shortly after Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the Judiciary Committee chair,
announced that his panel was nearing agreement on the bipartisan compromise,
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said Thursday night that he would
introduce his own bill that would be limited to border security and interior
enforcement measures.

Frist's move was dismissed by some Capitol Hill observers as an effort to
bolster his credentials with conservatives as he prepares for a possible
presidential run. By introducing a bill with no guest-worker provisions, they
said, Frist was hoping to highlight the difference between his approach to
immigration and that of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a potential rival and
co-sponsor of guest-worker legislation.

Frist told reporters that he was acting only to ensure that a bill came to the
floor in time to be fully debated and voted on before the Senate recesses for
the summer.

The bipartisan bill, sponsored by McCain and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., would
enable undocumented immigrants to stay in the country for six years under
temporary work visas after paying a $1,000 fine and passing background checks.
They could apply for permanent residency, or green cards, by paying an
additional $1,000 fine and meeting further requirements.

The Los Angeles Times and Knight Ridder Staff Writer James Kuhnhenn contributed
to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

See appeals;
TOUGHER PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS PROPOSED

BYLINE: Howard Mintz, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words


When the Senate resumes debate next week over immigration reforms, much of the
attention will be devoted to politically charged proposals to deal with illegal
workers and stepping up border security.

But buried deep in the immigration legislation is a sweeping plan that could
make it much tougher for immigrants fighting deportation and refugees seeking
asylum to press their case in the federal appeals courts. Those courts in recent
years have been the chief safety net for catching mistakes in the immigration
system.

And with Congress preoccupied by political warfare over undocumented workers and
border controls, the changes to the legal system are sliding through with scant
public debate.

Most troubling to immigration rights advocates is one provision that would
transfer all immigration appeals from federal courts around the nation to a
federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., that currently specializes in patent
and bankruptcy cases. The transfer alarms judges and lawyers who argue that
federal appeals courts have become critically important in protecting the rights
of immigrants since the Bush administration four years ago dramatically
downsized the Board of Immigration Appeals, the top branch in the immigration
courts.

In a series last year, the Mercury News found that the San Francisco-based 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals -- which handles by far the most immigration
appeals in the nation -- overturns the appeals board in two-thirds of the most
important immigration cases in the West, citing flawed decisions by immigration
judges.

The rate is continuing to climb this year. Since Jan. 1, the 9th Circuit has
overturned the board in 10 of 14 of its ``published'' immigration rulings, the
Mercury News found. Courts publish cases they deem to have the most legal and
public policy importance.

Critics of the legislation, crafted by Republican Sen. Arlen Specter, the
Judiciary Committee chairman, say that removing those cases from courts like the
9th Circuit will erode the ability of people fighting deportation to be heard in
the legal system. Among other things, the bill includes a provision that would
allow a single judge of the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington,
known more for deciding high-stakes patent feuds, to reject immigration appeals
with a brief order.

The U.S. Judicial Conference, the policy-making arm of the federal courts, sent
a letter to Specter Friday opposing the proposals.

``It's really disconcerting to see something this radical,'' said Karen Musalo,
an immigration rights professor at the Hastings College of the Law who joined
dozens of law professors in a letter opposing the Senate legislation. ``How is
this a sensible policy response to the raft of problems?''

The proposed reforms come at a precarious time for the immigration system.
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales earlier this year ordered a broad probe into
the immigration courts because of concerns about how the legal claims of
immigrants are being handled. The immigration appeals board also has been under
fire from federal appeals courts across the country for shoddy decision-making,
prompting a number of federal judges to call for changes.

Advocates of the legislation say shifting all cases to one appeals court would
provide more consistent rulings on immigration issues. They also say it would
prevent immigration lawyers from ``forum shopping'' to get more favorable
decisions from courts such as the 9th Circuit, viewed as more liberal on
immigration rights.

The legislation also includes provisions that even critics say would improve
immigration justice. For instance, it beefs up review in specialized immigration
courts, by expanding the appeals board from its current 11 members to at least
15 and possibly 23 members.

An aide to Specter said Friday that the combination of improving the appeals
board and centralizing immigration rulings in one appeals court would relieve
the crushing immigration caseload for courts such as the 9th Circuit. The aide,
who asked not be identified, downplayed concerns about the Federal Circuit
adding immigration appeals to its docket. He said the bill calls for the court
to add three judges and a team of immigration lawyers.

The federal appeals courts handled about 10,000 immigration appeals last year,
more than half of those in the 9th Circuit, which covers California and eight
other states. Chief Judge of the 9th Circuit Mary Schroeder opposes the shift.

Other federal appeals courts have weighed in against the legislation, including
Chicago-based Judge Richard Posner. He urged the Senate to reject the reforms
because they don't address the underlying problems in the appeals board.

``Congress needs to slow down, hold a hearing and make sure this isn't a
solution in search of a problem first,'' said Tim Sparapani, legislative counsel
for the American Civil Liberties Union.

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com or (408) 286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

Enforcement-only approach won't fix immigration woes

BYLINE: Mike Honda

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 689 words


America's immigration system is broken. Comprehensive immigration reform is the
only solution. Democrats and Republicans, business interests, labor and
immigrant-rights advocates must all work together if we are to truly arrive at
an acceptable solution. Historically, immigrants have made America stronger.
That is true today as well. History has taught us it is in our national interest
to make our immigration laws rational, consistent and humane.

Today, however, immigrants face unnecessary legal obstacles and hardships. There
are 12 million undocumented immigrants in this country who live in constant fear
of deportation. The vast majority of these individuals are hardworking taxpayers
who contribute greatly to our economy.

Those who are undocumented must be brought out from the shadows, if for no other
reason than for our post-Sept. 11 national security's sake. We need a program to
compel undocumented workers currently living here to come forward and
participate legally in our workforce.

To encourage people to come out from the shadows, some form of earned
legalization is critical. Immigrants who are working hard and paying taxes need
a chance to adjust their status. Earned legalization would require thorough
background checks and payment of appropriate fines and taxes before work
eligibility. Finally, a fair, efficient and sensible guest-worker program is
necessary to meet the labor supply demands of American employers.

In repairing our immigration system, we must also uphold American values by
reuniting families. Reuniting families is of particular concern for the Asian
and Pacific Islander-American community. The current family-preference
immigration system has not been updated in more than a decade, and an increasing
number of families face long periods of separation -- some of up to 20 years or
more.

Family reunification is impeded by immigration backlogs and by outdated quota
systems. The backlog for processing children of permanent residents to come to
the United States is unconscionable for a nation that espouses family values.

Rather than take up comprehensive immigration reform, the U.S. House of
Representatives debated and passed HR 4437, the ``Border and Immigration
Enforcement Act'' this past December. Of course, border security is a critical
component of our nation's security, but we cannot have true security without
addressing comprehensive immigration reform.

As U.S. Homeland Security Department Secretary Michael Chertoff pointed out:
``The problem of immigration is one that's been with this country for 20 years.
So we are digging ourselves out of a hole which it took 20 years to dig
ourselves into.''

During that time, however, Congress has taken a primarily enforcement-only
approach that has put us in the hole that Secretary Chertoff referenced. If you
want to get out of a hole, the first step is to stop digging.

The House-passed measure will only worsen an already broken immigration system
by, for the first time, making it a crime to be undocumented. Furthermore,
actions of people helping undocumented immigrants would be considered criminal
activity. The House bill would also impose the federal responsibility and
unfunded mandate of the enforcement of immigration laws on our already
overworked and underfunded state and local police. These are just a few of the
onerous provisions in the House bill.

While the Senate's immigration bill appears to be taking a slightly more
moderate approach by considering a guest-worker plan, we are still weeks away
from seeing the final product, which will then have to be reconciled with the
House's enforcement-only measure.

The real solution requires a comprehensive approach, not a border
enforcement-only measure. An enforcement-only approach ignores the reality of
our current immigration challenges and will not be an effective way to address
the security of our nation and the well-being of our people.

The time has come for Congress to make comprehensive immigration reform a
priority.

MIKE HONDA, D-Campbell, represents California's 15th District in the U.S. House
of Representatives. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Conflicting immigration bills could mean no action this year

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 438 words


A comprehensive immigration bill that answers President Bush's call for a
guest-worker program appears to have enough bipartisan support to pass the
Senate, guaranteeing a legislative collision with an enforcement-oriented House
bill, several advocates on both sides of the issue predicted Tuesday.

``We're in some trouble in the Senate,'' said Paul Egan, government-relations
director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), which
supports the House bill and opposes the guest-worker concept as a form of
amnesty for illegal immigration.

The Senate may well deadlock with the House because their positions differ so
radically and the issue is too politically hot in this congressional election
year for lawmakers on either side to compromise. That could doom all legislation
to overhaul immigration this year.

The Senate Judiciary Committee voted 12-6 Monday to advance a comprehensive
measure that would put millions of illegal immigrants on track to permanent
legal status and allow up to 400,000 foreign workers each year to fill
low-skilled jobs.

Egan said opponents of the measure put their hopes in the 435-member House,
where a coalition of conservative Republicans has vowed to kill immigration
legislation that includes a guest-worker plan. The 94-member coalition blocked
inclusion of a guest-worker program in the immigration bill the House passed in
December.

The House bill also makes illegal immigration a felony and calls for 700 miles
of fences along the Southwest border.

``If the Senate follows the Judiciary Committee's lead, the prospects of getting
a reform bill to the president's desk this year are slim, to say the least,''
said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., coalition leader. ``No plan with amnesty and a
massive increase in foreign workers will pass the House.''

Republicans have 55 seats in the Senate. Democrats have 44 and usually win
support from the Senate's lone independent, James Jeffords of Vermont.
Pro-immigrant groups believe they can count on support from at least nine
Republicans, and possibly as many as 14. Senate Judiciary Committee chair Arlen
Specter of Pennsylvania and three other committee Republicans -- Sens. Sam
Brownback of Kansas, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Mike DeWine of Ohio --
voted for the bill.

The measure became entangled in parliamentary uncertainty Tuesday after Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., indicated that he might press ahead with a
more limited border security measure similar to the one passed earlier by the
House. Senators are expected to begin debate this week -- possibly as early as
today -- and may vote on both measures.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Governor backs guest-worker plan

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 315 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger waded into the debate over immigration reform
Tuesday, saying the nation needs to respect its immigrants but warned of
``anarchy'' should citizenship be granted to those who enter the country
illegally.

As he has in the past, the Republican governor, who immigrated from Austria 38
years ago, laid blame on the federal government for not having strong border
enforcement and for spending years bickering over reforms.

``I believe very strongly that the federal government has to get their act
together,'' the governor said Tuesday in response to a question at a San
Francisco economic forum.

And in an opinion article published Tuesday in the Los Angeles Times, he called
for ``a comprehensive new law that respects immigrants and protects our nation''
that would include a temporary-work program and better border controls. He cited
his refusal to sign legislation to give driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
as a consequence of lax border controls.

Democrats in Congress have criticized some Republican legislation -- including a
House-approved bill that would turn illegal immigrants into felons -- for using
security concerns as a ruse to crack down on illegal immigrants who come to seek
work.

Schwarzenegger wrote in the Times that ``criminalizing immigrants for coming
here is a slogan, not a solution.''

But the governor does not believe anyone who enters the country illegally should
be eligible for citizenship.

He wrote in the Times, ``Granting citizenship to people who are here illegally
is not just amnesty -- it's anarchy.''

Instead, Schwarzenegger said at the forum, convened by the Bay Area Council,
that he backs increased visas when U.S. employers cannot find American workers
to do the job. He also said he was encouraged by continuing debate on various
proposals now in Congress.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Bay Area news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1015 words

SAN JOSE

Council passes resolution supporting immigrant `path toward permanent residency'


The San Jose City Council on Tuesday voted to send a message to lawmakers in
Washington that immigration reform should give undocumented workers a ``path
toward permanent residency'' without criminalizing their current illegal status.

The unanimous vote for a non-binding resolution came as the Judiciary Committee
of the U.S. Senate on Monday approved a comprehensive immigration bill that
would allow certain undocumented immigrants to obtain guest-worker visas, while
more than doubling the U.S. Border Patrol during the next five years. The
proposal doesn't contain a provision approved by the House of Representatives
that would make it a felony to violate immigration laws or to assist illegal
immigrants. Currently, immigrants who cross the border without proper documents
are violating civil immigration laws.

The city council's resolution also asks lawmakers to speed up the backlog of
visa requests ``to reunite families currently separated.''

Several San Jose residents, some speaking Spanish, spoke in favor of the
resolution at the council meeting, with several saying San Jose is a ``city of
immigrants.'' A handful of speakers opposed the resolution, saying immigrants
should be forced to follow procedures to enter the United States legally.

-- Deborah Lohse

SUNNYVALE

Council extends moratorium on industrial zone facilities

The Sunnyvale City Council on Tuesday night unanimously extended a moratorium on
applications for churches, recreational facilities and other community groups in
the city's industrial sector.

The council passed the six-month moratorium in September after seeing a rise in
the number of religious, educational and sports groups seeking space in old
industrial buildings. City leaders want to reserve some industrial areas for
business development as the economy recovers.

The moratorium was due to expire this month, but council members extended it
until the end of next month. In the meantime, city leaders will explore rezoning
some pockets of industrial and residential areas to create a ``public
facilities'' overlay zone where churches and educational groups would be
allowed.

-- Julie Patel

City council votes to close library for patent material

The Sunnyvale Center for Innovation, Invention and Ideas -- or Sci-Cubed -- will
close its doors in June. In a unanimous vote Tuesday night, the Sunnyvale City
Council decided to shutter Sci-Cubed -- the nation's last special-services
patent library created in partnership with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

The original Sunnyvale Patent Library, which was opened in 1963 to meet the
growing needs of technology developers, will remain open. Like about 84 other
Patent and Trademark Depository Libraries across the country, it stores copies
of U.S. patents and patent and trademark materials and makes them freely
available to the public. In 1994, the city joined with the U.S. patent office to
open Sci-Cubed, aiming to provide more patent and trademark services, including
videoconferencing facilities and more than 40 classes on different aspects of
intellectual property.

Sci-Cubed costs the city about $132,000 a year to operate, and Vice Mayor Otto
Lee said it's unfair for the city to foot the whole bill for a service that
benefits the entire region.

-- Julie Patel

LOS GATOS

Memorial fund established for writer Iris Chang

Two years after her death, the family of author Iris Chang and Global Alliance
for Preserving the History of W.W. II in Asia have established a memorial fund
in her name, with the mission of educating the public on the importance of
remembering history.

The Iris Chang Memorial Fund will support a series of educational programs,
including an annual essay contest whose theme will be history and justice, the
focus of Chang's life work.

Chang, author of the 1997 bestseller ``The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten
Holocaust of World War II,'' was a prominent voice in calling for the Japanese
government to apologize and pay reparations to families of the millions of
Chinese killed during Japan's occupation of China in the 1930s and 1940s.

Chang, who suffered from severe depression, died at the age 36 in Los Gatos in
November 2004 from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Donations can be sent to the Iris Chang Memorial Fund, Box 641324, San Jose,
Calif. 95164-1324. Checks are payable to ``Global Alliance/Iris Chang Memorial
Fund.''

For more information, visit www.global- alliance.net/iris-chang-memorial-
fund/online_resources.htm.

-- Truong Phuoc Khánh

REDWOOD CITY

Woodside High senior named state youth of the year

Elizabeth Quintero of Redwood City, a member of the Boys & Girls Clubs of the
Peninsula, has been named California Youth of the Year by the state Boys & Girls
Clubs organization.

The senior at Woodside High School will receive a $1,000 scholarship from the
Reader's Digest Foundation and $2,500 from Allstate. Quintero will represent
California in the regional Boys & Girls Club competition this summer.

The Youth of the Year program recognizes outstanding contributions to school,
community, family and the Boys & Girls Clubs.

-- Connie Skipitares

MILPITAS

Suspicious device neutralized at Wal-Mart after evacuation

Authorities evacuated the Wal-Mart at Milpitas' McCarthy Ranch shopping center
Tuesday night after investigating a suspicious device inside the store.

Milpitas police received a report at 6:10 p.m. of a suspicious package left
inside a men's restroom. When authorities arrived, they determined the device
was possibly harmful and cleared out the store and surrounding areas.

Santa Clara County's bomb disposal unit neutralized the device with a
high-powered water cannon, Milpitas Lt. Tim Hinkley said.

No one was injured, and the store was closed and cordoned off for the rest of
the evening. A Wal-Mart manager opened the store briefly during the
investigation, but it was closed soon after.

The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is
investigating, and authorities are reviewing surveillance tapes. No arrests have
been made.

-- Sandra Gonzales

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Lots of ifs behind bill to replace illegal labor

BYLINE: David Streitfeld, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words


To understand landscape contractor Barbara Alvarez's position on immigration
reform, it helps to know she has an employee with his own chauffeur.

A key longtime worker confessed a few months ago that his driver's license
renewal had been rejected. In other words, he was in this country illegally.

Alvarez's solution: Hire an $11-an-hour driver to take the worker to his lawns
throughout the day. What else could she do? ``My clients love him,'' the San
Dimas entrepreneur said.

Like much of the business community, Alvarez is solidly behind the immigration
proposal that emerged from the Senate Judiciary Committee this week. It offers
the 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States a path toward citizenship
while bringing in 400,000 guest workers.

These changes -- also endorsed by organized labor, Democrats and some
Republicans -- are described by supporters as benefiting just about everyone.
The undocumented will no longer have to live in fear. Companies will get a more
predictable workforce. Society as a whole will be helped when the underground
economy moves above ground. Tax revenue will rise.

Yet this prediction of an economic golden age rests on the most slender of
assumptions.

It presumes that the flow of illegal immigrants will decrease from a torrent to
a trickle. It takes for granted that the government will have the technology to
find the illegal workers who continue to get through, as well as the money and
political will to enforce the laws that forbid their hiring.

Unless these things come to pass, economists say, the proposed legislation will
swell the pool of legal workers while hardly denting the underground economy.
Some employers will still have an incentive to hire illegal workers at wages
lower than those for new legal workers.

The result: an entrenched two-tier labor system where workers on the bottom
rungs compete to drive wages down.

Changing that dynamic won't be easy.

``The risk of hiring undocumented workers has to exceed the benefit,'' said Ross
DeVol, director of regional economics at the Milken Institute in Santa Monica.
``Otherwise, there's a substantial possibility we could end up in a worse
situation,'' as legal workers compete with a replenished pool of illegal
immigrants.

Laws against knowingly hiring illegal workers have been on the books since the
1986 immigration reform. But as Homeland Security and Justice Director Richard
Stana testified last year to a House subcommittee, ``work-site enforcement has
been a low priority.''

Fraudulent worker documents were so plentiful and so good, Stana said, that
companies could convincingly claim that they had no idea their workers were
illegal. The number of firms warned they would be fined for hiring illegal
workers declined from 417 in 1999 to three in 2004.

As they enter the larger economy, many newly legalized workers will have greater
protections and bargaining power. One result: They will earn more. Meanwhile, if
enforcement indeed increases, businesses will have more regulatory hurdles.

Companies, in short, will pay up front for reform. Many of these increased costs
will be passed on to the consumer as higher prices for restaurant meals, grocery
items, child care, car repairs and house remodeling.

That, in turn, could reignite demands for an off-the-books economy.

``People have dual interests,'' said Jared Bernstein, a liberal economist who
supports the reforms. ``Ask them, `Do you want your lawn to be mowed as cheaply
as possible?' They'll say yes. Ask if they want to control the border. They'll
say yes. Ask them if controlling the borders means they're willing to pay more
for lawn care, they'll say, `How much?' And that's what we're going to find
out.''

Lower-middle-class American workers are not going to benefit from a guest-worker
program, said Gordon Hanson, a professor of economics at University of
California-San Diego. ``You raise the supply of something, you drive down the
price,'' he said.

Legalizing the immigrants already here will move some of that competition up the
labor ladder. Hanson gave the example of hotel workers. Many are illegal, which
means they're stuck in the worst jobs. As their status changes, so will their
positions. The result: More people will compete for the post of, say, assistant
manager.

Instead of reform raising wages, as its backers maintain, it could put more
pressure on them. Over the past few years, wages have been struggling to keep up
with inflation while productivity -- and corporate profits -- soared.

Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group opposed
to the Judiciary measure, forecasts a bleak future ``where everyone is forced to
work for the lowest possible pay. The minimum wage will be a ceiling as well as
a floor.''

At Golden State Landscaping, Alvarez's enthusiasm for reform doesn't blind her
to the toll it could exact. She started the company a quarter-century ago. It
has 13 employees, all Latino. Alvarez herself is not.

Last year, she had to drop three workers after Golden State was notified by
Social Security that their numbers were invalid. That sort of disruption is hard
on a small business. Then she had to hire the chauffeur.

``If legalization pushes wages up, that would be fine,'' Alvarez said. ``Those
companies that can't make it work will go out of business.''

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Republicans urging president to leave sidelines of debate

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words


The immigrant demonstrators who flooded the streets of America's cities Monday
ratcheted up pressure on lawmakers to complete an overhaul of the nation's
immigration laws, while raising Republicans' frustration with President Bush for
what they see as a muddled stand on the issue.

Bush, a former Texas governor, made immigration reform a signature issue after
winning the presidency, advocating a guest-worker program that would offer
illegal immigrants and foreign workers access to the U.S. labor market. But for
months he has refused to get involved in the legislative details while
Republicans in the House and Senate fought among themselves and took different
approaches.

The House, reflecting the anger of conservatives' districts contending with a
flood of illegal immigrants, passed legislation in December that would build
hundreds of miles of fence on the southern border and declared illegal
immigrants felons, without offering them lawful employment, much less a route to
citizenship. The Senate is trying to fashion a broader solution to address
border security and the fate of 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants
already here.

But amid partisan finger-pointing, the Senate left town Friday for a two-week
recess having failed to pass a bipartisan immigration compromise that appeared
to have the support of a clear majority of the Senate. The deal also appears to
have overwhelming support among voters.

A Washington Post-ABC News poll of 1,027 people taken Thursday to Sunday found
that 63 percent of those surveyed backed letting immigrants who have lived in
the country a certain number of years apply for legal status and eventually
become permanent citizens. In the poll of randomly selected adults, the margin
of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.

In contrast, 14 percent favored a plan to let illegal immigrants stay and work
for a limited number of years before having to return to their home countries --
an alternative pushed by Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz. Twenty
percent said illegal immigrants should be declared felons and offered no
temporary work program, a stand that corresponds with the legislation approved
by the House.

Many Republicans on Monday continued to blame Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid,
D-Nev., who has used parliamentary tactics to block votes on Republican
amendments and is making demands the GOP sees as unreasonable. But they could
not hide their frustration with the president either.

When the delicate compromise was announced Thursday morning, White House
officials had told Republican senators that Bush would appear on TV that
afternoon to strongly back the deal -- a move advocates say could have bolstered
support and deflected opposition from conservatives. Bush appeared in Charlotte,
N.C., at 12:36 p.m., but his message was to exhort senators ``to work hard.''

``I'm pleased that Republicans and Democrats in the United States Senate are
working together to get a comprehensive immigration bill,'' he said.

Advocates of the compromise were mystified that the man who first called for an
immigrant guest-worker program would go no further.

``I think it's a fair statement to say the president has provided great
leadership on the tenor of the debate, the tone of debate. Now it's time for him
to provide more leadership on the substantive outcome,'' said Sen. Lindsey
Graham, R-S.C.

Some conservatives believe Bush betrayed them by launching the debate, then
letting Democrats such as Sen. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and maverick
Republicans such as Sen. John McCain of Arizona take control of it.

``This administration and the president's decision has had an enormous impact on
the number of Hispanics who have committed crimes in this state,'' said Rep.
Pete Sessions, R-Texas, whose Dallas district saw as many as a half-million
marchers Sunday but whose district office is fielding phone calls that
overwhelmingly reject illegal immigrant rights. ``The president is ignoring the
rule of law.''

White House spokeswoman Erin Healey said she would not divulge internal
discussions about what the president agreed to say last week, but she asserted
that Bush has been ``very engaged in this issue,'' reiterating his support for a
comprehensive bill that tightens border patrols, toughens enforcement of laws
outlawing employment of undocumented workers, and expands a temporary
guest-worker program for both illegal immigrants and foreign workers seeking
access to the U.S. labor market.

With Bush on the sidelines, it may be the demonstrators who drive the process
forward.

As he watched tens of thousands of marchers in the streets of Phoenix, Rep. John
Shadegg, R-Ariz., noted that the demonstration kicked off with a rendition of
the national anthem amid a sea of U.S. flags. Shadegg voted for the House bill.
But he said Monday's orderly, patriotic marches should help the cause of
lawmakers from both parties who would temper the House bill and add an avenue to
legal employment for undocumented workers.

``Everybody is frankly astounded at the numbers of individuals who are willing
to stand up and say they are here illegally,'' said Rep. Tom Price, R-Ga., whose
suburban district is not far from 50,000 marchers who descended on Atlanta. ``If
nothing else can give a picture of why we need to act rapidly, it's this.''

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

Bush calls for major immigration reform;
PLAN WOULD BOOST NUMBER OF FOREIGN WORKERS, TIGHTEN BORDER SECURITY, CREATE
`TAMPER-PROOF' IDS

BYLINE: Dana Hull, Mercury News

LENGTH: 762 words


President Bush traveled to the home of the nation's anti-immigration movement
Monday to make his case for a comprehensive immigration reform bill that would
allow more foreigners to legally work in the United States, strengthen and
modernize border security and create ``tamper proof'' identification cards for
millions of undocumented workers.

Bush's decision to take his support for a stalled Senate bill to Orange County
was seen as an attempt to take leadership on an issue that has generated
enormous dissent within his own party. The Senate bill would allow for eventual
citizenship to some illegal immigrants already working in the United States,
which conservative critics argue amounts to an amnesty plan.

``I know this is an emotional debate,'' Bush told the Orange County Business
Council. ``But one thing we can't lose sight of is that we're talking about
human beings, decent human beings. Massive deportation of the people here is
unrealistic. It's not going to work.''

Immigrants and their supporters have staged massive street protests and student
walk-outs in the Bay Area and around the nation. But many Republicans are angry
that Bush has not taken a tougher law-and-order stance.

Orange County, a Republican stronghold south of Los Angeles, is the fifth
largest county in the United States. Nearly 30 percent of its 3 million
residents are foreign-born, according to the 2000 census, and 30.8 percent of
county residents are of Hispanic or Latino descent.

The city of Costa Mesa recently became the first municipality to request that
its police officers to be trained in immigration enforcement. Orange County is
also the birthplace of the Minuteman Project, the volunteer border patrol group
based in Laguna Hills.

Even before Bush arrived at the heavily guarded Hyatt Regency Hotel, a few dozen
protesters from the Minuteman Project waved American flags and chanted ``God
Bless America'' and ``Go Back to Mexico.'' Across the street, another group of
demonstrators waved peace signs and protested the war in Iraq.

Bush was warmly received by the well-heeled business audience, which included
Reps. John Campbell and Mary Bono. He reminded them that the United States is a
``nation of immigrants'' that has a tradition of welcoming people into American
society.

``You can be a nation of law and a compassionate nation at the same time,'' he
said.

He expressed outrage at the culture of smuggling that has taken root along
America's southern border and resulted in immigrants dying of thirst and heat
exhaustion as they walk through the desert.

``We've got people stuffing human beings in the back of trucks,'' said Bush.
``These smugglers are coyotes, preying on innocent life,'' he said, using a term
commonly applied to those who smuggle people across the U.S.-Mexican border,
often for steep fees.

Bush said that the best way to enforce the border was to come up with a national
guest worker plan that would dismantle the smuggling industry. And while he said
that more than 6 million immigrants have been caught or turned back since he
took office in 2001, he called for the border patrol to have more modern
equipment and additional detention space, so that illegal immigrants,
particularly from Central America, are not just detained and immediately
released.

``We didn't have enough bed space,'' said Bush. ``And so we had
catch-and-release.''

During the question-and-answer session, the toughest question Bush got was from
a local man who legally emigrated from Cuba when he was nine years old. He'd
like to go back to Cuba to visit, and feels that opening up trade with Cuba
would cause President Fidel Castro to ``fall like a rock off a cliff.''

Bush said that travel to Cuba allows Castro to get rich.

``I have taken the position that trade with the country enables a tyrant to stay
in power, as opposed to the opposite,'' said Bush. Bush's speech comes one week
before May 1, which many immigrant rights groups have declared ``Un dia sin
inmigrante'' or ``A day without an immigrant,'' as they call for a national
boycott of work and school.

And on May 3, the Minuteman Project leaves Los Angeles for a cross-country
caravan to Washington, where they will rally for more immigration control. The
group, which will travel through many border states, plans to stop in Crawford,
Texas, on May 6.

Bush's Irvine speech ended a four-day visit to the Golden State that included a
Friday speech in San Jose on competitiveness and his energy plan, meetings with
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and marines at Twentynine Palms, and bike rides in
Napa Valley and Palm Springs.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

Bush takes on migrant issue;
BACKS TIGHTER BORDERS, GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM

BYLINE: Dana Hull, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 795 words


President Bush traveled to the home of the nation's anti-illegal immigration
movement Monday to make his case for comprehensive immigration reform that would
legalize millions of undocumented workers while strengthening border security.

``I know this is an emotional debate,'' Bush told the Orange County Business
Council. ``But one thing we cannot lose sight of is that we're talking about
human beings, decent human beings that need to be treated with respect. Massive
deportation of the people here is unrealistic. It's just not going to work.''

Bush's forceful speech about the need for immigration reform came after repeated
calls for him to take leadership on the issue, which has generated enormous
dissent within his own party. He will begin meeting with Republican and
Democratic senators today in an effort to work out a compromise.

But Bush stopped short of fully endorsing a bill pending in the Senate that
would allow more foreigners to legally work in the United States, strengthen and
modernize border security and create ``tamper proof'' identification cards for
millions of undocumented workers for eventual citizenship. And in the heated
debate, his new efforts did not immediately please either side.

``I had hoped that the president would finally weigh in and exert some
leadership, but that did not happen again today,'' said House Minority Whip
Steny Hoyer, D-Md.

Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach, boycotted the president's event. ``No
one I know is advocating mass deportations. If we simply prevent people who are
here illegally from getting jobs and we stop giving them benefits . . . they
will go home on their own,'' Rohrabacher told CNN after Bush's speech.

Illegal immigrants and their supporters have drawn enormous crowds at street
protests and student walkouts in the Bay Area and around the nation.
Counter-demonstrations by those who feel illegal immigration is taking away jobs
and burdening public schools and social services have begun to flare up as well.

Orange County, a Republican stronghold south of Los Angeles, is the
fifth-largest county in the United States. Nearly 30 percent of its 3 million
residents are foreign-born, according to the 2000 census, and 30.8 percent of
county residents are of Hispanic or Latino descent. But many in the county are
deeply conservative on the question of illegal immigration.

The city of Costa Mesa recently became the first municipality to request that
its police officers be trained in immigration enforcement. Orange County is also
the birthplace of the Minuteman Project, the volunteer border patrol group based
in Laguna Hills.

Before Bush arrived at the heavily guarded Hyatt Regency Hotel in Irvine on
Monday morning, a few dozen protesters from the Minuteman Project waved American
flags and chanted ``God Bless America'' and ``Go Back to Mexico.'' Across the
street, other demonstrators held peace signs and protested the war in Iraq.

Bush was warmly received by the business audience, which included Reps. John
Campbell, R-Newport Beach, and Mary Bono, R-Palm Springs. He reminded them that
the United States is a ``nation of immigrants'' that has a tradition of
welcoming people into American society.

``You can be a nation of law and a compassionate nation at the same time,'' he
said.

He expressed outrage at the culture of smuggling that has taken root along
America's southern border and resulted in immigrants dying of thirst and heat
exhaustion as they walk through the desert.

``We've got people stuffing human beings in the back of trucks,'' he said.

He said the best way to enforce the border was to come up with a national
guest-worker plan that would dismantle the smuggling industry. And he called for
the border patrol to have more modern equipment and additional detention space.

``We didn't have enough bed space,'' he said. ``And so we had
catch-and-release.''

Bush's speech comes one week before May 1, which many immigrant rights groups
have declared ``Un dia sin inmigrante'' or ``A day without an immigrant,'' as
they call for a national boycott of work and school.

And on May 3, the Minuteman Project leaves Los Angeles for a cross-country
caravan to Washington, where members will rally for tighter immigration
controls. The group, which will travel through many border states, plans to stop
in Crawford, Texas, where the Bush family has a ranch, on May 6.

Bush's Irvine speech ended a four-day visit to the Golden State that included a
speech Friday in San Jose on competitiveness and his energy plan, meetings with
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and U.S. Marines at Twentynine Palms, and bike rides
in Napa Valley and Palm Springs.

The Washington Post and Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.
Contact Dana Hull at dhull@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-2706.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday

Bush considers using Guard to shore up Mexican border

BYLINE: Ron Hutcheson and Drew Brown, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 934 words


President Bush is expected to announce plans Monday to send thousands of
National Guard soldiers to the U.S.-Mexico border to help stop illegal
immigration.

Details were still under discussion at the White House on Friday evening, but
administration officials said Bush was considering deploying at least several
thousand soldiers as part of a broader effort to beef up border security. The
president will outline his plans Monday night in a prime time TV address to the
nation.

The speech is timed to influence Senate debate next week on legislation to
overhaul immigration laws. Bush will prod lawmakers to come up with a plan that
combines tougher enforcement with a new guest-worker program that would give
legal status to millions of illegal workers.

A senior administration official, who insisted on anonymity to discuss the
still-evolving White House plan, said Bush would propose ways to plug security
gaps until thousands of new Border Patrol agents can be hired and trained. The
Senate bill calls for hiring 4,000 additional Border Patrol agents and 10,000
more immigration enforcement officers over the next five years.

The White House plan is to use National Guard troops, contract workers or local
law enforcement officials in support jobs so that Border Patrol agents can focus
on apprehending illegal immigrants.

The official disputed speculation that Bush would call for the deployment of
10,000 soldiers.

``The numbers are fluid right now. It will be in the thousands, but not that
high,'' the official said. ``There's a lot of different ways they can help
without having to do the actual apprehension.''

A Pentagon official confirmed that the military had been asked to begin drawing
up options for the use of National Guard troops. But the official said the scope
of the mission or the number of troops required hadn't been defined.

According to the National Guard Bureau in Washington, D.C., National Guard
troops have been used on the border with Mexico in recent years primarily for
anti-drug missions.

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger reacted negatively to the plan to use the
troops to secure the border, saying it ``is maybe not the right way to go.''

``Not to use our National Guard soldiers who are coming back from Iraq, for
instance. . . . I think that you should let them go to work, back to work
again,'' he said. ``I think that what we should do is press the federal
government -- it's their responsibility, not the state's responsibility.''

The use of troops on the border is a sensitive issue for a host of reasons.

Federal law prohibits the military from performing law enforcement duties.
Critics of the idea worry that putting armed troops on the border increases the
risk of violent confrontations with heavily armed drug traffickers or with
immigrants. Some military units already help with border surveillance.

In 1997, a U.S. Marine patrol assisting with border surveillance near Redford,
Texas, shot and killed 18-year-old Ezequiel Hernández, a goatherd. The Marines
said Hernández fired at them, and the corporal who pulled the trigger was not
charged with a crime.

For Mexico, the presence of U.S. troops is likely to revive memories of the U.S.
Army's incursions into Mexico from 1916 to 1919, when Gen. John J. Pershing's
troops and other U.S. military units roamed the country in search of Pancho
Villa.

Asked for comment, Carolina Díaz, director of international information for
Mexican President Vicente Fox, said: ``President Fox is on an official visit to
Europe. He's at a summit of Latin American countries in Austria. . . . He will
wait until Monday to see exactly what President Bush proposes. Until then, there
won't be any official comment.''

Some U.S. officials questioned the wisdom of giving another assignment to
National Guard units that have been stretched thin by repeated deployments to
Iraq.

National Guard troops normally serve under the command of state governors, but
the president can press them into federal service when needed. Since the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, hundreds of thousands of National Guard members have been
activated for duty in Iraq, in Afghanistan and in homeland security missions.

Rep. Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, called the National Guard proposal ``cheap
political theater'' in an interview with CNN.

But Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, chair of Senate subcommittees that oversee
immigration and border security, said the personnel and equipment that the
National Guard could offer is needed immediately.

``The truth is, we must use all available federal assets to secure our
borders,'' Cornyn said, citing ground sensors, remotely piloted aircraft and
other equipment. He said those devices ``are needed now, and should be deployed
as quickly possible.''

The effort to boost security at the border could help Bush sell Congress his
plan for a temporary-worker program for undocumented immigrants already in the
United States. Legislation in the Senate would provide more than 300,000
guest-worker visas annually and would permit illegal workers who have been in
the United States for more than five years to get on a path to legal status.

But that plan faces opposition in the House of Representatives, which passed its
own version in December that emphasized security, including a 700-mile fence
along the Mexican border.

The Senate is scheduled to debate its version of the bill starting Monday under
an agreement reached this week by Democratic and Republican leaders.

Knight Ridder correspondent James Kuhnhenn in Washington, and Mercury News
reporters Kate Folmar in Sacramento and Kathy Corcoran in Mexico contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

IMMIGRATION FIGHT ISN'T OVER

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words


Congress' struggle to overhaul U.S. immigration law heads into House-Senate
negotiations that could last all summer. They will test President Bush's ability
to forge a compromise on an emotional issue in an election year.

As expected, the Senate voted 62-36 on Thursday to pass landmark legislation
that would put nearly two-thirds of the nation's illegal immigrants on track to
eventual U.S. citizenship and create a guest-worker program to give U.S.
employers a steady supply of low-skilled foreign labor.

The Senate bill embraces the basic concepts of Bush's call for comprehensive
immigration reform and also includes toughened enforcement provisions, increased
penalties on employers who hire illegal workers and a combination of fences,
technology and increased personnel to help plug the porous border.

But the volatile debate over immigration next moves to a House-Senate
negotiating committee, where lawmakers will be hard-pressed to find middle
ground between the Senate bill and a House measure that focuses more on expanded
enforcement.

Opponents called the bill fundamentally flawed and predicted it will be
completely rewritten by the conference committee, which next month will begin
trying to craft a compromise version acceptable to both chambers. The House in
December passed a bill that dealt only with border and workplace enforcement. It
would make illegal presence in the country a felony.

Backers of the bipartisan Senate plan are calling on Bush to use the full force
of the White House to forge a compromise, but acknowledge that the president is
weakened by declining polls and his growing lame-duck status.

``After tonight, whether this bipartisan balance still survives or not really
rests in the hands of the man at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue,'' said
Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.

House Republican leaders denounce the Senate's legalization provisions as
amnesty and remain adamantly opposed to the Senate bill.

``The nation needs legislation that will secure our borders and provide
meaningful immigration reform -- this bill completely misses that mark,'' said
Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., who opposed it.

Underscoring the gap between opposite sides of the issue, several California
activists said Thursday that it might not be a bad thing if the House and Senate
failed to reach a compromise this year.

While the House bill sparked outrage in immigrant communities, because of its
enforcement focus, some immigrant-rights advocates said they think the Senate
version also is severely flawed.

Among other things, they said the Senate bill's three-tier approach to
legalization will exclude millions of immigrants who have been in the United
States for less than five years.

``That is not going to work. It's going to divide families and it's going to be
very bureaucratic,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for SIREN, the
Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network in San Jose.

Activists also criticized provisions that would penalize immigrants who used
false Social Security numbers or other identification -- which is extremely
common among those who came here to work, said Arnoldo Garcia of the National
Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights in Oakland.

``It wouldn't be, necessarily, a bad outcome if the whole thing collapsed,''
Garcia said, referring to the prospect of a House-Senate compromise.

Some activists on the other side agreed, although for different reasons.

``The Senate bill is really bad, and they might be better off to just try next
year,'' said Fremont tech worker Charles Birkman, who has organized recent
rallies calling for a crackdown on illegal immigration. He supports the House
bill but said he fears any effort to weaken it by adding provisions for illegal
immigrants to gain legal status.

But San Jose business owner Roberta Allen, who also has organized rallies
against illegal immigration, warned that many people will not be satisfied if
Congress doesn't act.

``There's going to be a lot of people coming up for re-election,'' said Allen,
``and I think there's going to be a real house-cleaning.''

The Senate measure is hailed as the most sweeping immigration bill in two
decades. The bill -- co-sponsored by Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck
Hagel, R-Neb. -- emerged from weeks of rancorous deliberations that paralleled
massive demonstrations by immigrants and their supporters across the country.

As many as 12 million illegal immigrants, more than half from Mexico, have
entered the United States. Their presence has provoked an angry response from
many U.S. citizens.

Perhaps the Senate bill's most controversial provision is a three-tier approach
to illegal immigrants. The nearly 7 million who have been in the United States
five years or longer would be allowed to stay. They could become permanent legal
residents in six years and U.S. citizens five years later by paying $3,250 in
fees, learning English, paying back taxes and passing background checks.

Illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States two to five years --
estimated at nearly 3 million people -- would be eligible for ``deferred
mandatory departure,'' allowing them to stay and work for three more years.

They would be required to leave after three years, but could return as
participants in the guest-worker program. A so-called ``touch-back'' provision
would enable them to satisfy the requirement by briefly exiting the country and
returning through a U.S. port of entry. They also would be eligible to apply for
``green cards'' to become permanent legal residents.

The more than 1.5 million immigrants who have been here less than two years
would be required to return to their native countries.

Mercury News Staff Writer Brandon Bailey and the Washington Post contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Bush chastises employers who hire illegal workers

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 314 words


President Bush told the nation's most prominent business group Thursday that
``unscrupulous'' employers have contributed to the illegal-immigration crisis in
the United States by knowingly hiring undocumented workers, and called for steep
new penalties on those exploiting the shadow economy.

As part of his emerging public campaign for immigration legislation now pending
in Congress, Bush visited the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to emphasize his focus on
enforcement and combat the conservative complaint that his immigration proposals
add up to amnesty for millions of foreigners violating U.S. immigration law.

``Businesses that knowingly employ illegal workers undermine this law and
undermine the spirit of America,'' the president said during a speech against a
backdrop of U.S. flags, images of the Statue of Liberty and the slogan
``Comprehensive Immigration Reform.'' ``And we're not going to tolerate it in
this country.'' Although most businesses abide by the law, he said, ``there are
some unscrupulous folks who want to take advantage of low-cost labor.''

The president has tried to straddle a difficult political line in the fight over
immigration. For years, he has been promoting a guest-worker program allowing
millions of illegal immigrants already in the country to stay temporarily under
certain conditions. He also has embraced a Senate plan that would offer a path
to citizenship for many illegal immigrants if they have been in the United
States for years, pay back taxes and a penalty, learn English and maintain a
clean criminal record.

Bush used the occasion Thursday to press both sides in Congress to come up with
a deal and suggested he was willing to concede some of what he wants. ``The
House and Senate bills will require effort and compromise on both sides,'' he
said. ``It's a difficult task. Yet the difficulty of this task is no excuse for
avoiding it.''

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday

U.S. retreated on enforcement;
EMPLOYER SANCTIONS FOR ILLEGAL WORKERS CURTAILED 1999-2003

BYLINE: Spencer S. Hsu and Kari Lydersen, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 318 words


The Bush administration, which is vowing to crack down on U.S. companies that
hire illegal workers, virtually abandoned such employer sanctions before it
began pushing to overhaul U.S. immigration laws last year, government statistics
show.

From 1999 to 2003, work-site enforcement operations were scaled back 95 percent
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which subsequently was merged
into the Homeland Security Department. The number of employers prosecuted for
unlawfully employing immigrants dropped from 182 to four, and fines collected
declined from $3.6 million to $212,000, according to federal statistics.

In 1999, the United States initiated fines against 417 companies. In 2004, it
issued fine notices to three.

The government's steady retreat from workplace enforcement in the 20 years since
it became illegal to hire undocumented workers is the result of fierce political
pressure from business lobbies, immigrant rights groups and members of Congress,
according to law enforcement veterans. Punishing employers also was
de-emphasized as the government recognized that it lacks the tools to do the job
well, and as the Department of Homeland Security shifted resources to combat
terrorism.

The administration says it is learning from past failures, switching to a
strategy of building more criminal cases, instead of relying on ineffective
administrative fines or pinprick raids against individual businesses. In its
current drive, it is seeking more resources to sanction employers, toughen
penalties and finally set up a reliable system -- first proposed in 1981 -- to
verify the eligibility of workers.

In recent months, ICE, which succeeded the INS, has dramatically stepped up
enforcement efforts. It won 127 criminal convictions last year, up from 46 in
2004, and obtained $15 million in settlements from an investigation of Wal-Mart
and 12 subcontractors in the fall, a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 21, 2006 Friday

Protesters target Attorney General's immigration speech in Santa Clara

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 209 words


U.S. Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales will address the Commonwealth Club
this morning in Santa Clara in a discussion of immigration reform that has
already drawn the attention and ire of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps and the
Raging Grannies.

Gonzales will talk about the Bush Administration plan that calls for increased
border security, a temporary guest worker program, an employer verification
program, and legalization, after penalties, for some undocumented immigrants
already in the United States.

Local members of the Minuteman, a civilian border patrol group, have scheduled a
news conference after the Gonzales address at Santa Clara Marriott. The group
opposes legislation approved by the U.S. Senate, which will give illegal
immigrants a path to citizenship, and supports a U.S. House of Representatives
bill that makes it a felony to be in the United States without legal immigration
documents.

Members of the Raging Grannies Action League, a Peninsula group, are planning a
protest outside of the hotel. The group has criticized the Bush guest worker
plan, calling it ``exploitive.''

Check back later today to www.mercurynews.com for updates on this developing
story.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 18, 2006 Friday

Plan to let illegal immigrants apply for driver's licenses is shelved again

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1070 words


California's illegal immigrants won't get a chance to apply for driver's
licenses anytime soon, based on the surprising decision Thursday by a powerful
legislative committee that effectively shelves the measure yet again.

The Assembly Appropriations Committee, which typically announces decisions with
little discussion and without a roll call vote, officially put the measure on
hold. In political lingo, however, the action signifies the bill has all but
died -- unless committee members agree to reconsider over the next two weeks,
which typically doesn't happen.

This was the seventh time in seven years that Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles,
had tried to pass the measure, which would establish a special license for the
state's more than 2 million undocumented immigrants who, according to estimates,
are driving.

His most recent efforts have been passed by the Legislature only to be vetoed by
Govs. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Gray Davis. This time, the bill was shot down by
a Democratic-controlled committee.

Political insiders suggested the measure was perhaps too controversial for an
election year. The bill is opposed by Republicans -- and a majority of voters --
who say licenses would reward people in violation of immigration law.

Republican Schwarzenegger, who is running for re-election, has said he would
veto the bill. His Democratic opponent, state Treasurer Phil Angelides, supports
the measure.

Appropriations committee chair Judy Chu, D-Monterey Park, said she ``strongly
supports'' the public-safety premise behind the bill but said a ``rational,
productive debate'' on the Assembly floor was unlikely.

``I held the bill with hopes that the Legislature can come back later when the
issue can be dispassionately discussed in a way that will allow us to solve the
difficult and myriad public-safety problems posed by unlicensed drivers and
counterfeit IDs,'' Chu said in an e-mailed statement.

``As far as I am concerned, this issue is not dead and I would encourage my
colleagues to continue to advocate for a fair and sensible solution.''

The response angered Cedillo.

``It is absolutely unacceptable,'' he said. ``My intention and my commitment is
to move this bill to the floor. We have the right to have this bill debated,
voted on and moved to the governor's desk.''

Assemblyman Chuck DeVore, R-Irvine, said the committee made the right move,
considering the bill is unpopular with the voting public. Slightly more than
half of California's adults oppose giving licenses to illegal immigrants,
according to a Field Poll released in March.

``I think they understand this is a little bit of a political hot potato,''
DeVore said.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 1, 2006 Wednesday

Governors endorse guest worker plan;
BUT WESTERNERS DON'T SAY WHICH VERSION IS BEST

BYLINE: Erica Werner, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 476 words


The Western Governors Association called on Congress Tuesday to pass
comprehensive immigration reform, including a temporary guest worker program.

The group that represents 18 Western states passed the policy resolution
unanimously while meeting at the National Governors Association annual
conference. The vote came as the Senate prepares to take up immigration
legislation this spring.

``When you think about issues that impact the West, this immigration issue is
really the top issue right now,'' said Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a
Democrat, who chairs the Western governors group.

``We believe that some of the rhetoric coming out of our nation's capitol
vis-a-vis illegal immigration is unfounded and unwise, and what we really need
is a very comprehensive approach to this issue,'' she said.

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who in the past has said he supports a
guest worker program that would require the worker to leave the United States
after some years, said immigration policies are outdated and the federal
government must deal with them.

``Ideally we have a perfect situation where you have people that want to work
and you have companies that need workers, so you have supply and demand, but how
do you make that work is really the big challenge,'' Schwarzenegger said.

There's strong disagreement on Capitol Hill over immigration legislation.

The Republican-controlled House passed an immigration bill in December that
tightened border controls, authorized fencing portions of the border and made
illegal presence in the United States a felony. The House measure did not
include a guest worker plan. Democrats criticized the bill as too punitive.

The Senate Judiciary Committee will take up legislation Thursday by Chairman
Arlen Specter, R-Pa., that includes a guest worker program and creates a new
``conditional non-immigrant work authorization'' status for illegal immigrants
already in the United States. The immigrants could gain temporary legal status
by paying back taxes and getting an employer to pay a fee.

Specter's guest worker proposal is similar to a plan advanced by President Bush,
and to a bill by Republican Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona.
Those proposals would allow immigrants to stay in the United States for up to
six years before returning to their home countries.

The Western Governors Association's resolution -- the group's first attempt to
tackle the immigration issue -- did not offer details on how the temporary guest
worker program would work. It also did not offer ideas on what to do about the
estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in the country.

The resolution called for building regional federal prisons to house illegal
immigrants who commit crimes, and increasing the numbers of available green
cards for general workers and H-1B visas for high-tech and other skilled
workers.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 3, 2006 Monday

Permanent path to U.S. residency best for everyone

BYLINE: Linda Chavez-Thompson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 705 words


They are the Latino immigrants who prepare the meals for the restaurants in
downtown San Jose. They are Indian computer programmers working for major
corporations. They are women, born in Guatemala and Africa, who tend our
children every day. They pay taxes. Many have families and have been
contributing members of our communities for years. We rely on their labor each
and every day.

Yet their basic rights -- a right to a minimum wage, to a safe workplace and
fair treatment -- are routinely trampled upon, undermining basic standards. This
exploitation hurts all of us, foreign and native-born alike. An overhaul of our
nation's broken immigration laws is long overdue.

Tragically, conservatives continue to push for misguided policies that serve
only to punish the hard-working people our economy depends on while failing to
protect even the most basic rights of immigrant workers and their families.

Despite strong bipartisan support for a more balanced and comprehensive approach
in the Senate, Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., has tried to block this
effort by forcing his own proposal on to the floor. Like Rep. James
Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., he too, is pushing for a plan that will criminalize
immigrant workers and further deepen the potential for abuse and exploitation
while undermining wages and labor protections for all.

To achieve comprehensive immigration reform, we have to give up the illusion
that enforcement of immigration laws alone can fix our broken system. Effective
reform must include three interdependent goals.

Our government must uniformly enforce laws on workplace standards. All workers,
including immigrants, should earn a minimum wage, have safe jobs and receive
fair treatment. When immigrant workers are treated poorly, workplace standards
are dragged down for all workers.

To achieve a blanket standard of workplace rights, we must reject guest-worker
programs. Because workers in these programs are always dependent on their host
employers for both their livelihoods and legal status to work in the United
States, guest workers are never truly free, rendering them ripe for
exploitation. And too many employers -- from the crab houses on the Eastern
shore to high-tech firms in our nation's cities -- have abused these programs
and stepped on workers' basic rights.

Reform proposals must provide a meaningful path to permanent residency for those
workers already here, paying taxes and contributing to their communities.
Because undocumented immigrants are under constant threat of deportation, they
cannot effectively assert their rights at the workplace. The jobs they work are
often the most dangerous, employers often cheat them out of due wages, and when
they try to speak up, their employers retaliate.

Look at job safety. It is shameful that among foreign-born workers, workplace
fatality has increased by an alarming 46 percent between 1992 and 2002. Since
1992, fatalities among Hispanic workers have increased 65 percent. When
immigrant workers try to correct these injustices by forming unions, they are
cruelly harassed, intimidated, discriminated against and terminated for their
actions. When all else fails to break a union drive, employers simply call in
the immigration authorities and everyone gets deported for standing up for basic
rights.

Criminalizing undocumented workers leaves them extremely vulnerable -- easy prey
for unscrupulous employers. That in turn drives down working standards for all
of America's workers.

The last thing we need is a new law that criminalizes people and creates an
undemocratic, two-tier society. Our nation has had enough of that in our past.

We need an immigration policy that provides a real path to citizenship for those
workers already here, paying taxes and contributing to their communities, and
that helps meet the future need for workers in a fair way. We should recognize
immigrant workers not as criminals but as full members of society -- as
permanent residents with full rights and full mobility that employers may not
exploit.

As a nation that prides itself on fair treatment and equality, we simply cannot
settle for anything less.

LINDA CHAVEZ-THOMPSON is vice president of the AFL-CIO. She wrote this article
for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Immigrant study says revenue to offset costs

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 549 words


The nation's population of legal immigrants would increase by nearly 20 million
over the next decade if the recently passed Senate immigration bill becomes law,
and taxpayers would spend more than $50 billion to operate a new guest-worker
program and pay for extra welfare, Social Security and public-health costs,
according to a Congressional Budget Office report.

But the cost of absorbing the newcomers would be offset by a boost of $66
billion in federal revenue from income taxes and payroll taxes generated by the
temporary guest-worker program, along with fees that immigrants must pay to
participate, the report said.

By 2016, about 8 million immigrants would enter the United States as temporary
guest workers. An additional 11 million immigrants who now live in the country
illegally would become permanent legal residents under provisions of the bill.

The report, the first definitive look at the impact of the Senate bill, was
commissioned by the Senate Finance Committee and was submitted May 16, nine days
before the measure was passed. The study has been embraced by the Bush
administration and the bill's supporters, but opponents said crucial omissions
greatly lowered its population and cost estimates.

Critics said the report does not take into account the 950,000 newcomers who
enter the country legally under current immigration law, bringing the 10-year
total of new immigrants to about 30 million. Some say that number will double by
2026.

The report also does not consider the possibility of future mass illegal border
crossings that might occur in spite of technological enhancement and increased
personnel along the U.S.-Mexico border, according to critics.

An explosion of immigrants is one reason that House Republicans say they are
strongly opposed to the Senate bill, and have vowed to fight it when members of
the two chambers meet for negotiations in a congressional conference. Supporters
of the Senate's approach, which is backed by President Bush, say they will stand
firm.

``We can build miles of fences, but the fact remains that immigrants will still
come because employers need workers and immigrants want jobs,'' said Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., who fought for a guest-worker program. ``It's far better for
American jobs and wages to have a practical, common-sense policy of legal
immigration than to continue leaving millions of immigrants underground and
underpaid.''

Will Adams, a press officer for Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who opposes granting
residency to illegal immigrants, called legal immigration ``the soft underbelly
of the Senate bill.'' It is overlooked in the debate, he said, ``but when it's
exposed, the public is outraged.''

Robert Rector, a senior research fellow in domestic-policy studies at the
conservative Heritage Foundation, said the bill ``is horrendous.'' He said
assisting tens of millions of low-income workers with less than a high school
education would lead to costs in welfare, health care, housing and other areas
that far exceed the half-billion dollars the government already pays each year.

The budget office report, compiled with help from the Joint Committee on
Taxation, disputed that account, as did others who took issue with Rector's
belief that the Senate bill would increase the immigrant population by 60
million.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

Rights rallies set on holiday;
IMMIGRANT WORKERS FOCUS OF MARCHES

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


With ambitions to equal the turnout of massive immigration rallies in April and
May, organizers announced Wednesday plans for Labor Day marches in the Bay Area
and across the nation.

The Sept. 4 marches in San Jose, Oakland, San Francisco and other U.S. cities,
organizers say, will hopefully kick-start the stalled immigration reform
legislation.

Conflicting bills approved by the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S.
Senate have yet to reach compromise discussions.

``On this day we want to send a message to Congress to resolve the issue for 12
million undocumented immigrants in this country,'' said Jose Sandoval of the
Voluntarios de la Comunidad, one of the San Jose organizing groups behind the
march.

Starting Thursday, Sandoval and other volunteers will collect signatures for a
banner to be carried by marchers on the national holiday. Like the May 1 march
-- which drew an estimated 125,000 people to San Jose streets -- the group will
gather on the East Side and march to City Hall.

``We hope to have a good mass of folks,'' said Larisa Casillas, new executive
director of the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition.

``It's a fitting day to highlight the contribution of immigrant workers,'' she
said. ``Congress is back in session on Sept. 1 and we want to continue to keep
putting on pressure for immigration reform.''

Marches and rallies are also being organized in Los Angeles, Chicago and New
York City.

Sandoval said he and other organizers hope to equal the attendance of the
massive marches in April and May.

``I'm optimistic,'' said Walter Rodriguez, a volunteer organizer for the
September march. ``People are tired of waiting for Congress to do its work on
immigration reform.''

The march will focus on legalization for illegal immigrants and stopping a
House-approved bill that would make it a felony to be in the United States
illegally.

Roberta Allen, a San Jose small-business owner who organized a counterprotest to
``A Day Without Immigrants'' in May, said she knew of no plans to hold a
counterprotest on Labor Day.

``I think people are getting a little tired of people who are here illegally
demanding rights in this country,'' she said. ``We're not anti-immigrant. It's
illegal immigration that we're against.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 15, 2005 Thursday

Suit: Tuition law biased;
ALLOWING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO PAY LOWER FEES ATTACKED

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words


California's public universities and colleges violate federal law by charging
illegal immigrants lower in-state tuition rates, discriminating against U.S.
citizens from out of state who are charged a higher rate, according to a class
action lawsuit filed Wednesday in Yolo County Superior Court in Woodland.

Lawyers representing dozens of students across the state -- and potentially
thousands more who pay out-of-state tuition to attend the state's public
colleges and universities -- declared that those students are penalized by the
state and denied public benefits given illegal immigrants. The suit names
regents of the University of California, trustees of the California State
University and governors of the California Community Colleges as defendants.

``They are victims of an illegal policy of discrimination,'' said Redwood City
lawyer Michael J. Brady, ``that has cost them hundreds of millions of dollars
collectively.''

At a news conference in Sacramento on Wednesday, lawyers said California's 2002
legislation AB 540 violates federal law because it benefits only illegal
immigrants. A 1998 federal law gives states the authority to grant in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants, if it extends that same benefit to all
out-of-state students.

California's AB 540 allows illegal immigrants who graduated from a California
high school and have lived in the state for at least three years to pay in-state
tuition at state colleges and universities.

The law was aimed at the minor children of undocumented immigrants who were
brought to the United States as small children and attended and graduated from
California public secondary schools.

The lawsuit claims that AB 540 ``actively discriminated against tens of
thousands of out-of-state students without informing them of their potential
rights under federal and state law.'' It is seeking tens of thousands of dollars
in tuition restitution for each student plaintiff.

Officials and lawyers for the state's vast public university system immediately
dismissed and challenged the lawsuit's claims, saying that California, in fact,
allows out-of-state students to claim an exemption and pay in-state tuition, the
same as undocumented immigrant students, if they meet the requirements of AB
540.

In the University of California system, for example, an estimated 70 percent of
students who claim an exemption and pay in-state tuition -- although they are
from out of state -- are U.S. citizens.

In addition, to qualify for in-state tuition, anyone can establish residency in
California by living in the state one year and a day.

In 2004, there were 208,000 students in the UC system, and 1,340 of them
benefited under AB 540, all U.S. citizens or legal residents, according to
Christopher Patti, an attorney representing the UC regents.

``The UC policy is consistent with state law,'' Patti said, ``which both the
attorney general and the state Legislature determined is not in violation of
federal law.''

Rosa Perez, chancellor at San Jose-Evergreen Community College District, argued
that undocumented immigrants have a tougher state residency requirement to
fulfill -- three years in the state and a high school diploma. In addition,
undocumented students must sign a document saying they are in the process of
legalizing their status.

``I don't know what this lawsuit is talking about,'' Perez said. ``It's
inaccurate.''

``It's another attempt to confuse the public,'' she said, ``and sway people to
become anti-immigrant.''

The heart and core of the lawsuit is a simple claim, Brady said: Illegal
immigrants, no matter how long they've lived in California, are not
``residents'' of the state, and are not entitled to in-state tuition rates.

What's more, the state's requirement that a student, in order to qualify for the
benefits of AB 540 be ``without lawful immigration status'' inherently excludes
U.S. citizens, the lawsuit said.

The state formulated a discriminatory law to allow illegal immigrants to pay
in-state tuition, the lawsuit said.

Herb Castillo, a Bay Area immigrant advocate who supported proposed legislation
to give legal status to undocumented students, had a different perspective of
the lawsuit.

``The moral imperative of denying young people whose futures are here in the
States, to deny them an education is shortsighted beyond belief,'' he said.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 8, 2005 Saturday

Schwarzenegger vetos illegal immigrant license bill

BYLINE: By TOM CHORNEAU; Mercury News

LENGTH: 1149 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO (AP)


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Friday vetoed legislation that would have granted
driver's licenses to illegal immigrants, saying that approving the measure into
law could have undermined national security efforts.

The veto was expected and marked the second time Schwarzenegger has rejected
such a bill.

''Enacting this bill will result in billions of dollars being spent on a process
that ultimately could conflict with federal regulations,'' he said in his veto
message.

The bill's author, Los Angeles Democrat Gil Cedillo, said the veto broke
Schwarzenegger's promise to sign a driver's license bill. He also said the
rejection jeopardizes the state's preparation for increased federal security
requirements for all driver's licenses.

''He broke his promise to work out a resolution,'' Cedillo said. ''We're
committed to keeping America secure and our highways safe, and we're committed
to that regardless of what the political climate is.''

He said he would reintroduce the bill next year.

The action came as the governor faces a weekend deadline to sign or veto
hundreds of bills sent to him by the Legislature. He also vetoed two bills
related to easing the state's requirement that high school students pass an exit
exam to receive a diploma.

In a case watched closely by his critics, Schwarzenegger signed a bill that bans
the use of certain nutritional supplements among high school athletes. He vetoed
a similar bill last year and found himself in the midst of controversy this
summer after it was revealed he was being paid millions of dollars from
magazines that profit from the supplements industry.

Other bills the governor signed Friday ban the sale or rental of extremely
violent video games to minors, require cigarettes sold in California to meet
fire-safety standards designed to make them go out when not being puffed and
allow local governments to require the spay and neutering of certain breeds of
dogs to protect the public.

Administration officials announced earlier that Schwarzenegger would veto the
driver's license bill, saying California should wait until federal officials
completed work on regulations spelling out requirements for such licenses
nationwide.

Schwarzenegger vetoed a similar bill last year, saying the licenses should have
a different look than standard driver's licenses.

The latest version was designed to satisfied those concerns and to give the
Department of Motor Vehicles eight months after the federal regulations were
enacted to begin issuing the licenses. Schwarzenegger said that wasn't enough.

His veto was the latest setback for Cedillo, who has tried five times in the
past seven years to get such a bill into state law.

Former Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill granting driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants in 2003, an action that inflamed many voters and became part of the
effort to recall him from office. Schwarzenegger persuaded the Legislature to
overturn the law shortly after voters removed Davis and elected him the same
year.

Cedillo had cast his latest bill as necessary for improving homeland security by
ensuring that illegal immigrants are documented. He also said the bill would
improve safety on the state's roads by forcing undocumented workers to take
driver's tests.

Earlier in the day, he signed a bill banning high school athletes from using
some nutritional supplements, a year after vetoing similar legislation.

The governor's signature on the supplements bill comes after he was criticized
for having a multimillion-dollar contract with muscle magazines that derive most
of their profits from supplement companies. Critics said the arrangement posed a
conflict of interest.

The bill, SB37 by state Sen. Jackie Speier, D-Hillsborough, prohibits high
school athletes from using certain performance-enhancing supplements and
requires students and parents to signed a pledge not use them. It also prohibits
supplement manufacturers from sponsoring school events.

''I'm delighted that the governor has recognized the pivotal role he can play in
teaching teen athletes to avoid steroids and dangerous performance-enhancing
dietary supplements,'' Speier said in a statement. ''This bill is an outstanding
model for other states grappling with the growing problem of steroids and
performance-enhancing supplement abuse by teen athletes.''

The law prohibits high school athletes from taking three nutritional supplements
-- synephrine, ephedra and DHEA. The list does not include protein and creatine
products.

The governor's signature came after a summer of controversy surrounding his veto
of a similar Speier bill last year. Schwarzenegger was accused of having a
conflict of interest after a federal securities filing in July disclosed that he
would earn at least $1 million a year for five years serving as a consultant to
a publisher of fitness magazines.

Much of the advertising in the magazines comes from nutritional supplement
companies. Schwarzenegger gave up the contract but continues to write an advice
column.

The governor made little comment about the steroids bill during a signing
ceremony for a separate piece of legislation and did not take questions about
it. His press aides, however, said the latest Speier bill addressed issues the
governor objected to a year ago.

''This is a different bill,'' said Margita Thompson, Schwarzenegger's
spokeswoman.

She said the banned substances were not clearly defined last year, an issue she
said was corrected in the bill Schwarzenegger signed Friday.

In his veto message last year, Schwarzenegger said Speier's previous bill was
focused too much on dietary supplements rather than steroids, which
Schwarzenegger has acknowledged using during his bodybuilding career.

The governor said in a July interview with The Associated Press that he was
concerned the first Speier bill would have restricted types of supplements he
considers beneficial. He said he believes strongly in the use of nutritional
supplements as part of a daily diet and pledged not to sign any bill that
attempts to regulate them too strictly.

Speier insisted that her bill last year did not regulate normal vitamins or
protein powders.

The governor's potential conflict of interest prompted two complaints this
summer to the state's political watchdog agency, the Fair Political Practices
Commission. The commission has since closed one of the cases, while the other is
pending. The commission cannot comment about the conclusion of the closed case,
spokeswoman Whitney Barazoto said.

At issue was Schwarzenegger's agreement with American Media Inc., publisher of
several muscle and fitness magazines. The agreement, signed just before
Schwarzenegger became governor, called for him to be paid at least $1 million a
year for five years for acting as a consultant and writing columns for the
magazines, which included Flex and Muscle & Fitness.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 19, 2005 Saturday

125 illegal workers arrested;
IMMIGRATION RAID PULLED OFF AT WAL-MART CONSTRUCTION SITE

BYLINE: Michael Rubinkam, Associated Press

SECTION: BU; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words


An immigration raid at a Wal-Mart distribution center under construction led to
the arrests of 125 illegal workers, all of whom will be deported, federal
officials said Friday.

The workers from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico were
detained Thursday at the construction site in eastern Pennsylvania, according to
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. Some of the 125 used fake documents to
obtain employment with subcontractors, officials said.

The arrests came after search warrants were executed for six companies at the
site outside Pottsville, about 80 miles northwest of Philadelphia.

``Employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, and those who utilize false
documents to gain employment, face significant criminal and administrative
charges,'' John Kelleghan, acting special agent-in-charge for ICE in
Pennsylvania, said in a statement.

Agents obtained the search warrants after learning that 10 workers employed by
Destin Drywall & Paint were using Social Security numbers that did not match
their names. Another three used Social Security numbers that were never issued
by the government, according to an affidavit unsealed Friday at U.S. District
Court in Scranton.

Houston-based Destin has worked on Wal-Mart projects around the country,
according to office manager Cindy Wyman. She said the company verifies that
employees are permitted to work in the United States.

``As far as I know, their Social Security numbers are good,'' Wyman said of the
Pennsylvania workers.

A Wal-Mart spokesman has said the detained workers were not employed by Wal-Mart
but by the subcontractors. Wal-Mart's contracts with the companies require that
they follow local, state and federal employment laws, the company said.

The Pennsylvania job site remains shut down, Wal-Mart spokesman Marty Heires
said Friday. He did not know when construction would resume.

Last month, Wal-Mart shut down work on seven stores under construction in North
Dakota to check for illegal aliens after two illegal immigrants working on
Wal-Mart projects in Bismarck were charged with molesting two 13-year-old girls.
Charges against one of the defendants were dropped after authorities found out
he was a juvenile.

In 2003, a raid of 60 Wal-Mart stores in 21 states led to the arrests of 245
illegal workers. An affidavit claimed a pair of senior Wal-Mart executives knew
cleaning contractors were hiring illegal immigrants. The retailer agreed to pay
$11 million in March to settle the case but denied senior executives knew of the
hirings.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday

Tough talk isn't enough to stem illegal immigration;
BUSH'S PROPOSALS MAY PLACATE GOP ALLIES BUT DON'T ADDRESS KEY ISSUES

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 467 words


President Bush went to the epicenters of illegal immigration this week to
address an issue that threatens to fracture the Republican and, to a lesser
extent, the Democratic, parties in an election year. In speeches in Tucson and
El Paso, Bush revived his plan for tighter borders coupled with a temporary
guest-worker program.

Bush's proposal is a good starting point but not an answer. To break the
stalemate in Congress, he must either ditch or win over one-note conservatives
calling only for more security. And he must go farther than his anti-amnesty
rhetoric implies in granting legal status to the 11 million undocumented workers
already here.

Bush emphasized enforcement and soft-pedaled the worker program in his speeches,
which was not surprising, given the audience of Border Patrol agents and growing
frustrations along the Rio Grande. In August, Arizona's Democratic governor,
Janet Napolitano, declared a state of emergency to free up money to combat
crime, cover higher police costs and battle increasing drug trafficking along
the border.

The Bush administration is proposing hiring more border agents, installing
high-tech sensors and, in some areas, building barriers and fences. It also
wants to deport illegal immigrants to their hometowns, instead of releasing them
just across the border. Next month, the Republican-dominated House is expected
to include these and other measures in an enforcement-only bill.

Then the battle over reform will shift to the Senate, in a contest between bills
co-sponsored by Arizona's two Republican senators, John Kyl and John McCain.
Both would create temporary visas, probably lasting six years, for farm work and
hard-to-fill jobs. Undocumented immigrants working here now could apply. But
under the bill sponsored by Kyl and Sen. John Cronyn, R-Texas, undocumented
workers first would have to move back to their native country and return there
permanently once the visas ended.

Consider the practical implications of uprooting and deporting millions of
immigrants and families who have lived stable and constructive lives in the
United States for years. The process would be potentially explosive,
prohibitively expensive and futile. Most would never seek visas, continuing the
underground economy that would undermine the visa system. That's why the bill
co-sponsored by McCain and Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass., would offer undocumented
workers in the program an opportunity eventually to seek permanent residency or
citizenship, but only after they paid a big fine and took a criminal background
check.

In repeating his blanket opposition to amnesty for undocumented workers, Bush is
pacifying conservatives at the expense of bipartisan support. And he's backing
himself into a corner just when he needs room to negotiate practical and
equitable reforms.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday

Study: Illegal migrants aren't destitute, but seek better work

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 583 words


Most undocumented workers from Mexico had jobs there before they entered the
United States, according to a report released Tuesday.

The vast majority of migrants are not looking just for work, but for better
work, at higher wages, with better working conditions -- and in many cases,
they're trying to reunite with growing networks of families who settled in the
United States before them, according to researchers with the Pew Hispanic Center
in Washington.

The report's conclusion undercuts a long-held explanation for illegal
immigration: that migrants can't find work at home.

``Lack of work does not appear to be the main reason why migrants leave Mexico
for the United States,'' the report says.

Family unity and a better standard of living are key motivations for migrants,
according to Martha Campos, a program director at Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network, a San Jose non-profit group.

``We follow the opportunity to feed our families and get a job for a better
life,'' she said. ``If we know someone who is coming, that starts everyone else
on their way because they know this is a country that welcomes everyone.''

The Pew report was based on a survey of 4,836 Mexican immigrants in Dallas;
Raleigh, N.C.; Los Angeles; New York City; Chicago; Atlanta; and Fresno. The
survey was conducted from July 12, 2004, to Jan. 28, 2005.

The findings provide new demographic insights for lawmakers as they move toward
a possible overhaul of the nation's immigration laws. President Bush accelerated
the debate last week with a high-profile speech that included a call for an
immigrant guest-worker program and tougher controls at the border.

An estimated 6.3 million Mexicans are thought to be living illegally in the
United States, part of a larger illegal immigrant population in excess of 11
million. At least 3.5 million undocumented Mexicans hold U.S. jobs, constituting
about 20 percent of the country's Latino workforce.

Undocumented Mexican immigrants traditionally have been portrayed as desperate
job seekers without options in their own country. But of the Mexican immigrants
surveyed who had been in the United States for two years, only 5 percent said
they were unemployed before venturing north of the border.

The lure of higher wages appears to be a big incentive. Although undocumented
Mexican immigrants draw a median income here of only $300 a week -- less than
half that of U.S. workers -- those earnings easily surpass the $100 to $120
average weekly salaries they draw at home.

In one notable finding, the researchers said immigration status apparently had
little impact on chances for employment in the United States. ``Overall, low
education levels, weak English-language skills and lack of a U.S.
government-issued ID do not seem to pose barriers to finding work in the U.S.,''
the report said.

Mexican immigrants rely heavily on tips from friends and relatives in the United
States. Younger, better-educated immigrants sometimes use the Internet, the
survey indicates.

The immigrants, the report says, fulfill a ``steady and strong demand'' from
U.S. employers. At least two-thirds find jobs in four industries that
traditionally are dependent on migrant labor: agriculture, construction,
manufacturing and hospitality.

Seasonal work often results in long spells of inactivity, but unemployment for
illegal immigrants who've been in the country at least six months is strikingly
low -- around 5 percent.

Mercury News Staff Writer Sandra Gonzales contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday

Farmworkers in short supply as winter harvest approaches

BYLINE: Jerry Hirsch, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words


The farmers who grow most of the U.S. winter vegetable crop say they won't have
enough workers -- legal or otherwise -- to harvest all the produce when the
season hits high gear next month.

Growers in the winter farm belt that stretches east from California's Imperial
Valley to Yuma County in Arizona will fill barely half the 50,000 field-hand
positions needed to gather the region's tons of ripening produce, according to
Western Growers, a trade group whose members account for 90 percent of the
nation's winter lettuce, broccoli, cauliflower and other vegetables.

``Come January, we could see lettuce rotting in the fields because there will be
no one to pick it,'' said Jon Vessey, who farms 8,000 acres near El Centro.

Growers blame more frequent patrols and raids targeting illegal workers in
agriculture, tighter border enforcement and the migration of undocumented
workers to better-paying, or less physically demanding trades.

The effect on consumers, who rarely pay attention to the source of their
produce, is negligible so far. But Tom Nassif, chief executive of Western
Growers, said the squeeze threatens the continued availability of American-grown
winter produce and the U.S. jobs of packers, farm-equipment providers and
industry suppliers.

The field-hand shortage, also seen during other harvests this year, underscores
the need for comprehensive immigration reform that includes an ``effective''
guest-worker program that gives foreign citizens permission to work in the U.S.
agriculture industry, Nassif said.

But the Capitol Hill lobbying efforts of Nassif and other Southwest agricultural
interests -- they want at least a temporary guest-worker program to see farmers
through the coming harvest -- have run afoul of some Republicans and
border-control activists who view any guest-worker program as a form of amnesty
for illegal immigrants.

There are at least 6.3 million undocumented workers in the United States,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center. As many as 8 in 10 farmworkers are illegal
residents. Other big employers of illegal workers include construction, where
many former farmworkers have migrated because of higher wages, and the hotel and
casino industry.

Disagreements over undocumented workers have divided Arizona's two GOP senators.
Sen. Jon Kyl wants to require those here illegally to return to their home
countries before applying for participation in a guest-worker program, while
Sen. John McCain has sided with farming interests and would allow undocumented
workers who participate in a guest-worker program to stay in the United States
and apply for permanent residency or citizenship after paying fines and
satisfying other requirements.

Some farmers are raising what they pay to well above the minimum wage that most
of these jobs once brought.

But farmers say other market forces limit how high they can raise wages and
still stay in business. Foreign competition and supermarket-industry
consolidation are leaving growers with fewer buyers and less leverage over what
they can charge.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

Bush tackles U.S. border control puzzle;
CRITICS SAY ENFORCEMENT WILL FAIL UNLESS BUSINESSES STOP HIRING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1099 words


After decades of government failure to stem the tide of illegal immigration, the
Bush administration and congressional Republicans are putting forward ambitious
enforcement programs they say will finally lead to effective control over the
nation's borders.

To achieve that long-sought goal, they are counting on adding hundreds of new
Border Patrol and other immigration agents, who would be aided by new
technology, such as infrared cameras, sensors that distinguish between humans
and animals, and a new surveillance drone that can tell whether a furtive figure
has a gun or just a pack of cigarettes.

Also proposed: accelerated processing of detainees, expanded holding facilities
and some new carrots and sticks to persuade employers not to hire illegal
immigrants.

Similar grand designs were unveiled in 1986, 1994 and 1996. All ended in
failure. So why would the new initiatives fare any better?

Some supporters argue that the new resources would give the enforcement effort
critical mass: enough resources to end the pattern of cracking down in one
place, only to see the flow of illegal immigrants move elsewhere.

Also, some Republicans are making enforcement a condition for considering other
facets of reform, including the Bush administration's proposed guest-worker
program to give more immigrants some kind of legal status. Faced with
congressional intransigence, the administration has decided to put enforcement
first, even though top officials say it cannot succeed without a guest-worker
system.

The likelihood of this drive succeeding already is viewed with skepticism,
especially among officials in border communities. Some welcome the promises of
new aid, but say they do not see how this effort is going to fare better than
its predecessors.

``Everything is about the border, about controlling the border, but that will
never happen. It's a myopic view,'' Ray Borane, mayor of Douglas, Ariz., said of
Washington's immigration reform efforts. ``The border is only . . . one piece of
the puzzle. Washington also has to focus on where'' immigrants ``are going and
what they're doing when they get there.''

What the vast majority are doing is feeding the U.S. economy's seemingly
insatiable appetite for immigrant workers. They are so vital to the economy that
sending them home in a giant law enforcement crackdown is unthinkable, as well
as impossible, government officials and outside experts say.

Nonetheless, the administration and Congress are pressing ahead on enforcement.

Near the top of many of the proposals is investment in infrastructure designed
to make it harder for immigrants to bypass border checkpoints.

In the House, a newly passed immigration bill requires fencing, including lights
and cameras, at certain points along the border. Already, extensive wall and
fence systems have been erected in parts of California and Texas.

Chris Bauder, president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 1613, which
represents San Diego agents, says his city's experience shows walls do not work.
The fence in San Diego ``just pushed that traffic elsewhere, and that's what a
2,000-mile fence will do: push it to ports of entry, to the coast, to the
Canadian border, where we don't have anything.''

``They're treating the symptoms, not the root cause,'' he said -- the U.S. jobs
magnet.

The House bill mandates other infrastructure such as checkpoints and all-weather
roads, while the administration's plans include vehicle barriers and stadium
lighting, plus expanded detention facilities so that non-Mexicans can be held
and sent home rather than simply released.

Officials such as Ron Colburn, chief border agent in Arizona's Yuma sector,
welcome the technology. His station, among the county's busiest, will soon get
ground-sensing radar, more infrared and daylight cameras, and digital wireless
communications, which he is particularly excited about. Today, border agents
often have to use personal cell phones to communicate from remote areas.

Colburn already is using the new Predator B pilotless aircraft.

``I was a skeptic, but now I'm sold,'' he said of the technology.

Others offer caveats. ``The one drone is $14 million,'' T.J. Bonner, president
of the National Border Patrol Council, said of the Predator. ``That's a lot of
money for one eye in the sky. . . . Piloted aircraft are more effective.''

Yuma County Sheriff Ralph E. Ogden, whose area in Arizona borders two Mexican
states and California, has a more basic concern. ``Technology can show you a
picture of someone,'' he said, ``but someone still has to go out to get them.
It's a great supplement, but no replacement for real people.''

Congress has agreed to funding for an additional 1,700 border agents this year,
for a total of at least 11,000. Originally, President Bush's 2006 budget had
only allowed for an extra 210 agents.

The House legislation would require the military and the Department of Homeland
Security to develop a plan to use more military surveillance equipment along the
border.

The House measure also would allow local sheriffs within 25 miles of the
U.S.-Mexico border to detain illegal immigrants and transfer them to federal
authorities in the routine course of duty. Tony Estrada, sheriff of Arizona's
Santa Cruz County, which shares 50 miles of border with Mexico, says his
department does not have the time.

``I do not want to be doing immigration work, and I don't want my people to do
it,'' he said. ``We don't have the resources.''

Whatever new resources are deployed along the border, most experts agree that
achieving control requires more effective enforcement in the interior of the
country. Some say mandatory employee verification and increased penalties on
employers who hire illegally, as required in the House legislation, is the only
way to stem the tide.

They point out that this has never seriously been tried, though employer
enforcement was part of a 1986 law. In fiscal 2004, the Department of Homeland
Security issued just three notices of intent to fine employers. None was fined.
This past year, the administration targeted one employer, Wal-Mart, which it
described as a repeat offender.

Bauder argued that if employers were robustly targeted, illegal immigrants would
leave, word of mouth would trickle back to Mexico and fewer immigrants would try
to come.

But absent a guest-worker program, many said pressure from business would
probably counter any move toward truly effective internal enforcement.

``Every commission that studied this came to the same conclusion: That you have
to eliminate the jobs magnet if you want to eliminate illegal immigration,''
Bonner said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 1, 2006 Wednesday

Mexico hires firm to change its negative image in U.S.;
GOAL IS TO SUPPORT GUEST WORKER PROPOSAL

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 845 words


Fed up with the drumbeat of news stories about drug wars, police corruption,
border mayhem and illegal immigration, the government of Mexico has followed a
time-honored course for anyone seeking an image makeover: It's hired a PR firm.

Rob Allyn, a prominent Dallas public-relations craftsman who helped shape
Mexican President Vicente Fox's stunning election victory in 2000, now shoulders
the burden of pushing aside a largely negative U.S. perception of Mexico as a
land of drug lords and economic hardship.

Allyn's objective -- and that of his client -- is to display Mexico as a nation
on the move, with a flourishing democracy and growth-oriented economy, indelibly
linked to its neighbor to the north. In Allyn's words, to focus on ``the good
things that are happening in Mexico'' and ``correct some of the myths and
misperceptions that are out there.''

It's a daunting assignment.

Troubled borders

The presence of nearly 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States --
more than half from Mexico -- has left many U.S. residents with the impression
that Mexico is an impoverished, economically troubled land that can't hold on to
its own people.

Turf battles between vicious drug cartels have turned a portion of the
Texas-Mexico border into a war zone, prompting the U.S. government to warn
against travel to the Mexican border town of Nuevo Laredo, center stage for the
violence.

Last week, the sheriff of Hudspeth County in Texas reported that men dressed in
Mexican army uniforms crossed the border to protect a drug shipment, and U.S.
customs officials displayed a sophisticated tunnel dug under the border near San
Diego and packed with tons of marijuana.

Carlos García de Alba, Mexico's consul general in Dallas, said Mexico turned to
Allyn, who will receive $720,000 for the one-year contract, to tell a more
uplifting story. ``We want to be recognized as a reliable good neighbor, partner
and friend,'' he said. ``And when you focus on just very specific facts . . .
you're missing a lot. You're not looking at the whole picture.''

The PR offensive will remind U.S. residents that Mexico is the United States'
second largest trading partner after Canada, buying $111 billion of U.S. exports
every year. Mexico will also stress that its government is aggressively fighting
corruption, promoting democracy and fostering greater economic opportunities for
its 105 million citizens.

The campaign's over-arching goal is to strengthen U.S.-Mexican relations at a
time when President Bush is pressuring Congress to enact a guest worker program
for foreign workers, a top priority of the Fox administration.

The outlook for passage is uncertain, with a strong cadre of Republican
conservatives vowing to resist any immigration overhaul that includes a guest
worker program.

Damaging incidents

The incident in Hudspeth County -- in far West Texas -- also created an uproar
in Washington, prompting calls for an international investigation and inflaming
suspicions that rogue members of the Mexican military are escorting drug
shipments into the United States, an assertion the Mexican government
emphatically denies.

Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, chairman of the Senate subcommittee on immigration,
called the incident ``a thumb in the eye to the United States'' that hurts
prospects for enactment of a guest worker plan. Repairing Mexico's image from a
steady ``drip, drip, drip of bad news,'' he said, ``is going to take more than
hiring a public relations consultant.''

Nevertheless, Allyn's admirers in both the United States and Mexico believe that
the Dallas executive is up to the challenge, pointing to scores of earlier
successes, often against formidable odds.

Allyn, 46, is often described as a Republican strategist but he has increasingly
displayed an international reach by helping candidates, political parties and
corporations in other countries. Perhaps his most celebrated triumph was Fox's
upset victory in 2000 over the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which
had held the presidency for 71 years.

After meeting Fox on a trip to Mexico, Allyn, whose 23-year-old Allyn & Co.
merged into the Fleishman-Hillard public relations group in 2002, became a
central figure in the campaign but kept his role secret to avoid the appearance
of U.S. meddling. He taught himself Spanish and traveled in and out of the
country for three years, using three different pseudonyms.

Allyn has made no attempt to hide his current role, but he prefers to keep the
focus on his client rather than himself. That strategy hasn't always been
successful. A small group of protesters aligned with anti-immigrant groups
protested outside his office last week, complaining that his alliance with the
Mexican government constituted an affront to ``national sovereignty.''

Allyn also drew limited criticism from U.S. Latinos, who felt that Mexico should
have recruited a Latino firm to trumpet its message in the United States. ``They
should give Latinos a good shot at filling those positions,'' said Brent Wilkes,
executive director of League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC).

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday

Illegal immigration views soften in state;
POLL: REGISTERED VOTERS TAKE HARDER STANCE

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 598 words


Amid a roaring national debate, Californians' attitudes toward illegal
immigration are softening. Yet those who vote tend to maintain a much harsher
view of the issue, according to a Field Poll released Wednesday.

Nearly half of the people surveyed last month say illegal immigration has a
positive impact on the state, with 70 percent agreeing that undocumented workers
take jobs that no one else wants. Also, 65 percent favored a worker program that
would allow people to stay legally.

That compares with only 19 percent of Californians in 1982 who said illegal
immigration had a positive effect on the state.

But when looking at voters vs. non-voters, such favorable views fade. Only 36
percent of registered voters see undocumented workers as having a positive
impact, compared with 64 percent of respondents who were not registered to vote.
Among voters, a stark difference emerges between Democrats and Republicans, only
24 percent of whom see any positive impact.

So despite increased public support for the plight of the undocumented, voters
continue to support measures that deny them services and privileges, including
the ability to obtain a driver's license. While 44 percent of Californians
support driver's licenses for undocumented residents, only 33 percent of
registered voters do.

``Different groups of people view this issue very differently,'' said Field
pollster Mark DiCamillo. ``Voters tend to be older, whiter and middle class,
while unregistered voters tend to be young and immigrant.''

One area of consensus is a guest-worker program, which 65 percent of all
Californians support, as well as 60 percent of registered voters.

``That's one option voters and non-voters embrace,'' DiCamillo said. ``It puts
undocumented immigrants into some kind of accounting system.''

The poll arrives as the U.S. Congress and President Bush face a political clash
over what do to about undocumented immigrants, whose numbers continue to grow. A
study by the Pew Hispanic Center released Tuesday estimates that the number of
people living illegally in the United States -- the vast majority from Mexico or
Central America -- grew 8 percent this year to nearly 12 million. Undocumented
immigrants make up 5 percent of the American workforce, the study said.

President Bush has called for a program that would grant temporary worker status
to illegal immigrants already here. The House rejected the program and instead
passed a border security bill last year that criminalized illegal entry and
called for 700 miles of border fencing.

The Senate is trying to address both border security and the temporary worker
program, but consensus has been elusive.

Leo Lacayo, a San Francisco Republican activist and immigration consultant, says
voters need more education on the advantages they receive from undocumented
workers.

``People are playing politics with illegal immigration,'' said Lacayo, who
supports Bush's guest-worker proposal. ``That's the main reason I've withdrawn
my support from Schwarzenegger and refused to attend the (state) Republican
Convention.''

But groups fighting illegal immigration say the views of Californians have grown
more positive as a result of misinformation.

``That is a blatant lie,'' Barbara Koh of the California Coalition for
Immigration Reform said of the poll. ``It's the product of the liberal media and
our dysfunctional president.''

The Field Poll surveyed 500 California adults between Feb. 12-26 in English and
Spanish. It had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday

Senators wary of rushing bill on immigration;
GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM HITS SNAG

BYLINE: Jim Abrams, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 606 words


Senators from both parties appealed for more time Wednesday as they struggled to
come up with an immigration bill dealing with border enforcement, U.S. demand
for low-wage workers and the fate of 11 million people in the country illegally.

There is little consensus on how to set up a guest-worker program that does not
provide amnesty to illegal immigrants. So it appears unlikely that the Senate
Judiciary Committee, whose chair is Sen. Arlen Specter, will meet its deadline
of agreeing on a bill this week.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., said that regardless of the
committee's action, he is determined to bring an immigration bill to the full
Senate when lawmakers return from a weeklong recess March 27.

That bill might allow a vote on a guest-worker program, but not necessarily one
that includes illegal immigrants, as advocated by President Bush.

``I understand the chairman made some comments about potentially delaying it,
but my intent is to take it to the floor,'' Frist said. ``It's an important
issue: Border security absolutely has to be addressed, as does the enforcement
and other issues surrounding immigration.''

Specter, R-Pa., said he would urge Frist not to bypass the Judiciary Committee.
``This is a very complicated bill,'' Specter said, ``and I think we have to get
it done right.''

The House at the end of last year passed a bill that would criminalize illegal
immigration activities and mandate employer checks of workers. The measure did
not address the demand for workers that draws undocumented immigrants to the
country.

In his State of the Union address two years ago, Bush proposed a
temporary-worker program allowing participants to register for legal status for
a specific time and then be required to return home. It would not provide an
automatic path to citizenship.

A business-backed proposal by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., would allow illegal immigrants to work for six years and then apply for
permanent residency without having to leave the country.

But several senators, leery of anything approaching amnesty in an election year
and pointing to the failures of past guest-worker programs, suggested a worker
program should wait until after the United States gets better control of its
borders.

``It would be March madness to rush this,'' said Sen. Sam Brownback, R-Kan.

Said Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Okla., ``Nobody in the country trusts us on this issue
right now because we have not demonstrated the integrity to control our
borders.''

Three leading Democrats on the Judiciary Committee -- Kennedy, Sen. Patrick
Leahy of Vermont, and Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California -- said in a letter to
Frist that it would be a mistake for the Senate to take up a bill before the
committee reaches agreement.

``It is our sincere hope that this piecemeal approach does not occur,'' they
wrote.

Feinstein, differing with the McCain-Kennedy bill, said she favored a more
limited guest-worker program that focused on farmworkers. She noted that there
were an estimated 10 million to 12 million undocumented people in the United
States despite past guest-worker programs.

If anything, she said, they ``raised the question of whether guest-worker
programs become magnets for more undocumented populations.''

The committee Wednesday dealt with some border security issues but did not take
up temporary-worker programs or a requirement that employers verify the legal
status of employees.

Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, said trying to change the law so the Social
Security Administration would verify an employee's status would need approval
from the Senate Finance Committee, which he leads.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

REFORM PROPOSALS

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 172 words


Illegal immigration is emerging as a top issue in the 2006 congressional
election campaigns. Starting Monday, the U.S. Senate will take up an assortment
of immigration-reform proposals.

President Bushwants a reform package that includes increased border enforcement
and a `guest worker' program that allows undocumented immigrants to get work
permits for up to six years.

The U.S. Housepassed a bill last year that toughens enforcement, has no
guest-worker provision, and criminalizes illegal immigrants and individuals or
agencies who assist them.

Sen. Arlen Specter,R-Pa., is trying to broker a compromise among his Senate
colleagues that would include both tougher enforcement and a guest-worker
provision.

Sen. Ted Kennedy, D-Mass.,and Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.,are sponsoring a bill
that would allow guest workers to apply for permanent residency and eventual
citizenship.

Sen. Bill Frist,R-Tenn., the Senate majority leader, promises to introduce his
own bill with harsher enforcement than Specter's proposal, and no guest-worker
plan.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

Mexico pins hopes on U.S. effort to aid undocumented migrants;
OUTGOING LEADERS FOX, BUSH TO MEET

BYLINE: Olga R. Rodriguez, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 574 words


Heartened by huge marches across the United States and President Bush's support
for a guest-worker program, Mexico remains optimistic the immigration bill in
Congress can be transformed into something that will benefit millions of illegal
migrants.

Mexicans welcomed the proposal approved Monday by the Senate Judiciary Committee
to legalize undocumented migrants and provide temporary work visas, and
President Vicente Fox told local media the bill was a ``very important'' step.

Fox has been pushing for a migration accord that would grant legal status to
many of the estimated 6 million undocumented Mexicans in the United States. He
is likely to bring up the topic when he meets with Bush starting Thursday in the
Caribbean resort city of Cancún.

``The recent demonstrations in different places in the United States show the
imminent need for an immigration accord that meets the interests of both
countries,'' presidential spokesman Rubén Aguilar said Monday.

Although a bill granting amnesty to illegal immigrants is unlikely to be
approved by Congress, Fox has remained hopeful a guest-worker program will be
put in place before he leaves office Dec. 1.

Illegal migration has also emerged as a significant issue in Mexico's
presidential race. The three top candidates in the July 2 elections have all
pledged to strengthen the economy and make Mexican jobs attractive enough to
keep people from heading north.

If the United States approves a guest-worker program, it would bolster Fox's
image and aid the prospects of Felipe Calderón, presidential candidate for Fox's
National Action Party, or PAN, said George Grayson, a Mexico expert at the
College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Va.

Fox, who ended the seven-decade dominance of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI, in 2000, began his term promising to fight for a comprehensive
immigration reform that would legalize the status of millions of Mexican
migrants in the United States.

But the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks turned the U.S. focus to enhanced border
security, not immigration reform.

``Fox is looking for some way to be remembered in history, other than being the
politician who ousted the PRI from power,'' Grayson said.

Immigration and border security -- and the balance between the two -- is
expected to dominate the two days of meetings between Fox, Bush and Canadian
Prime Minister Stephen Harper in Cancún.

Mexican Foreign Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez said Monday it was necessary not
to focus the immigration debate on solutions based only on security.

The international community ``must share responsibility so that those forced to
migrate be regulated by plans that include respecting their dignity,'' Derbez
said.

The United States has asked Mexico to do more to strengthen security along their
common border. In a document approved by the Mexican Congress in February,
Mexico pledges to fight people-smuggling networks and to work closely with the
United States to tighten border enforcement.

Among the report's suggestions are creating more jobs at home for would-be
migrants and providing housing credits.

With Bush's approval ratings falling and Fox about to leave office, analysts say
their summit this week will have little influence on the immigration debate.

``Bush is so weak that he won't be able to deliver on any of his promises,''
Grayson said. ``You've got one lame duck meeting with a probably lamer duck.
What you'll see is two lame ducks fluttering around.''

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 3, 2006 Monday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Vote on immigration this week, Frist insists

Majority Leader Bill Frist said Sunday that he wanted the Senate to vote on a
far-reaching immigration bill later this week, even as the fate of the
legislation remained clouded by stark differences among lawmakers over how to
treat as many as 12 million illegal immigrants already in the United States.

Whether such immigrants may qualify for guest worker status and, ultimately, the
possibility of permanent residency and citizenship ``will be the fundamental
question over the next six days on the floor of the Senate,'' said Frist,
R-Tenn., on CNN.

The Senate Judiciary Committee last week approved a bill that would allow many
workers to remain in the United States, while also strengthening enforcement
provisions and bolstering security along the nation's borders. House leaders
have taken a much more hard-line approach, focused entirely on enforcement,
including strict penalties for employers who knowingly hire undocumented
workers.

Airline dissatisfaction up as skies get busier

Travelers increasingly are unhappy with airlines, ranking lost luggage among
their biggest complaints, according to an annual survey by university
researchers that rates carriers' quality.

``They're less on time, they're losing bags at a rate they've never done before
and people are complaining again,'' said Dean Headley, co-author of the study
being released today.

Passenger complaints increased 17 percent last year over 2004 and the rate of
mishandled baggage jumped from 4.83 per 1,000 passengers to 6.06 in 2005.

Customer satisfaction last year was the lowest since 2000, said Headley, an
associate professor at Wichita State University in Kansas.

Passengers are now returning to pre-Sept. 11, 2001, levels, but there are
200,000 fewer airline employees to serve them, Headley said.

King memorial funds rise with recent deaths

Donations for a planned memorial to the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in
Washington have jumped since the recent deaths of civil rights icons Rosa Parks
and King's widow, Coretta Scott King.

To date, $58 million has been raised for the $100 million project, with more
than $4.5 million collected in just one recent week. By comparison, the campaign
took in just over $5 million in all of 2004.

Harry Johnson Sr., president of the non-profit group behind the project, told
the Associated Press that the death of Parks in October and Coretta Scott King
in January clearly inspired people to contribute to the memorial.

NORTH CAROLINA

Helms has dementia, moved into rest home

Former U.S. Sen. Jesse Helms, in increasingly poor health before and since he
left office three years ago, has vascular dementia and has moved into a
convalescent center near his home, his wife said.

``He has his good days and his bad days,'' Dot Helms, told the News & Observer
for a story Sunday. ``He still sees friends. Company is good for him. He is
still signing books. But he is not able to conduct any business or make any
speeches.''

The 84-year-old Republican has been slowed by illnesses including a bone
disorder, prostate cancer and heart problems. As his career neared its end, he
made his way through the Capitol on a motorized scooter. He decided against
seeking a sixth term and left Congress in January 2003.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

BUSH PLAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words


President Bush has not translated his concepts into specific legislation. He is
pushing Congress to enact a three-pronged approach that calls for toughened
security at the border, aggressive interior enforcement and a temporary
guest-worker program.

Illegal immigrants

Bush has not detailed plans for the nation's estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants. Labor Secretary Elaine Chao told Congress in October that
undocumented residents would be allowed to participate in a temporary worker
program after paying ``substantial'' fines.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has ruled out mass deportation of
illegals immigrants, saying it would cost ``billions and billions and billions
of dollars,'' with enormous legal and logistical complications.

Guest-worker program

Allows temporary workers to register for a fixed period, after which they return
home. Bush originally proposed visas renewable for up to six years.

No automatic path to citizenship.

Increases the number of green cards.

Enforcement

Increases patrol agents and adds high-tech surveillance at the border, and
expands detention space for those apprehended.

Expedites return of illegal immigrants to their home countries.

Ends the controversial catch-and-release policy in which immigrants from
countries other than Mexico are released pending hearings, and typically fail to
return.

Improves and expands barriers in strategic locations, but no full-length fence
along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Beefs up work site enforcement, particularly in critical facilities such as
nuclear and chemical plants.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

SENATE PLAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 258 words


The Senate is focusing on two comprehensive bills, which include a guest-worker
plan and legalization for undocumented immigrants, and a separate
enforcement-oriented measure by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. One
comprehensive bill was passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee. A similar plan
is based on a compromise co-sponsored by Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck
Hagel, R-Neb. All three major bills, including Frist's, call for the same
approach in toughening security and enforcement:

Illegal immigrants

Illegal immigrants in the United States as of January 2004 could apply for a
six-year visa. They would have to work, show good character, pay $2,000 and, at
the end of that time, pass a background check to get a green card.

They could apply for citizenship five years after getting a green card.

The Martinez-Hagel plan has the same requirements for those in the country five
years or longer. But illegal immigrants in the country between two to five years
would have to go through a port of entry to apply to become temporary workers.
Those in the country less than two years would return home under both plans, but
they, too, could apply for temporary work visas.

Guest-worker program

Offers three-year visas, renewable once for three years. Workers could apply for
permanent residency after four years or return home when their visas expire.

Enforcement

Increases border patrols, inspectors and detainment facilities.

Boosts penalties and expands high-tech surveillance.

Expands and replaces fences in sections of the Arizona border.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

By Dave Montgomery

BYLINE: Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 267 words


From the earliest days of the Republic, when Congress enacted the 1795
Naturalization Act restricting citizenship to ``free white persons,'' few issues
have stirred deeper passions in the nation of immigrants than immigration
itself. The current debate over how to deal with up to 12 million illegal
residents is easily the most complex and divisive issue confronting the 109th
Congress, exacerbated by demands to safeguard America's borders in the
post-Sept. 11 era.

President Bush has made enactment of a comprehensive immigration bill, including
a temporary ``guest-worker'' program, a top priority. But his plummeting
approval rating has weakened his influence over Congress, particularly while
many lawmakers are seeking re-election in November.

The House of Representatives passed a tough immigration bill in December that
emphasized strict border enforcement and criminal penalties for undocumented
immigrants and those who employ them. A less punitive Senate measure, which
included a guest-worker program and a path for undocumented workers to win legal
status and eventual citizenship, suffered a potentially fatal setback this month
with the collapse of a bipartisan compromise. Senate leaders say they will try
to regroup after Congress returns from a two-week recess April 24.

The ultimate outcome will probably be decided by House and Senate negotiators,
who face the herculean task of trying to bridge differences between the two
sharply different measures when election-year passions make compromise
difficult. With only six months before Congress adjourns, no one is betting on
the outcome.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

HOUSE PLAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 229 words


Passed Dec. 16 by a 239-182 vote, after House members rejected inclusion of a
guest-worker program. Plan aims to end illegal immigration through more
aggressive enforcement, tougher penalties on employers and immigrants, and
greater controls at the border.

Key features

Tougher penalties on illegal immigrants and employers.

Requires employers to contact a nationwide database to verify authenticity of
employee Social Security numbers.

Ends the ``catch and release'' policy that requires all immigrants apprehended
at the border be detained until returned to their home countries.

Creates a 700-mile, two-layered fence in parts of California, Arizona, New
Mexico and Texas. Cost, $2.2 billion.

Requires the Department of Homeland Security to develop a national strategy for
border security.

Increases penalties for immigrant smuggling and gang members.

Increases the number of border patrol agents, expands detention space for
apprehended immigrants; adds high-tech border surveillance.

Reimburses sheriffs in 29 border counties for enforcing immigration laws and
detaining illegal immigrants.

Deports legal immigrants convicted of multiple drunken driving offenses.

Requires all Border Patrol uniforms, many of which have been made in Mexico, to
be made in the United States.

Gives Department of Homeland Security 18 months after enactment to secure
operational control of the border.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 12, 2006 Friday

Senate panel's plan approved in March

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 188 words


Allows illegal immigrants who were in the United States before 2004 to continue
working legally for six years if they pay a $1,000 fine and clear a criminal
background check. They would become eligible for permanent residence upon paying
another $1,000 fine and back taxes and having learned English.

New immigrants would have to have temporary work visas. They also could earn
legal permanent residence after six years.

Adds up to 14,000 new Border Patrol agents by 2011 to the current force of
11,300.

Creates a special guest-worker program for an estimated 1.5 million immigrant
farm workers, who can also earn legal permanent residency.

House bill passed in December

Requires all employers to verify the identity and immigration status of their
employees through an electronic system.

Requires all employers to use within six years a database to verify Social
Security numbers of employees or face civil or criminal penalties for hiring
illegal workers.

Makes illegal presence in the country a felony.

Requires building two-layer fences along 700 miles of the 2,000-mile border
between Mexico and the United States.

Source: Mercury News

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday

Defeat of amendment a win for farmworkers

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words


As the Senate took steps to complete its debate on an immigration bill by the
end of the week, lawmakers beat back efforts Monday to change a guest farmworker
program strongly supported by California farmers and labor unions.

Also, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., introduced a measure meant to simplify
the standards for legalizing most of the estimated 12 million undocumented
workers in the United States.

The vote killing the farmworkers amendment, which opponents said would have made
the program unworkable, gave added momentum to lawmakers who back the Senate's
measure, which includes both a pathway to legal status for undocumented
immigrants and a guest-worker program. By contrast, the House immigration bill,
passed in December, focuses on enforcement and border security.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., took formal steps Monday to end
debate and move to a final vote, which could come Wednesday or Thursday.

The differences between the Senate and House bills will have to be reconciled in
meetings between members of both chambers. President Bush has strongly endorsed
the Senate approach, but members of the House and some conservative senators
strongly oppose it, raising questions whether a conference committee will be
able to bridge the divide.

It is not clear when the conferees will meet, although some officials close to
the process say the White House is pushing for next month.

Speaking in Chicago on Monday, Bush renewed his call for a civil discussion.
``I'm very worried about the tone of this debate,'' he said.

The agriculture-worker amendment, offered by Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., would
have changed wage rates in a program that is part of the overall immigration
bill. Chambliss said his measure establishing a ``prevailing wage'' for
immigrant farmworkers was fair to both the workers and their employers, but
opponents said it would have cut wages precipitously. The vote was 50-43 to kill
the amendment.

Feinstein's amendment on legalization would replace the system currently in the
Senate bill, which uses the length of time an illegal immigrant has been in the
United States to determine who is eligible for legal status.

The bill now requires those in the United States less than two years to leave
the country permanently. Those here between two and five years would have to
return to their home countries and re-enter through a guest-worker program
before applying for legal status. Those here more than five years could
immediately enter a legalization process that would take an estimated 11 years
to obtain citizenship.

Under Feinstein's plan, scheduled for a vote Wednesday, all undocumented
immigrants who have been in the country since January 2006 and who meet certain
criteria could apply for legal status.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

Immigration-bill vote is urged before election

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 375 words


The House and Senate should vote on a compromise immigration bill before the
November elections so voters can assess how their lawmakers did on the issue,
House Judiciary Committee chair James Sensenbrenner said Friday.

But a chance at citizenship for illegal immigrants -- what some call amnesty --
is a ``non-starter'' for any compromise bill, said Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.

Failing to appoint negotiators to a House-Senate conference committee or waiting
until after the elections would amount to ``punting,'' he said. Plus, the
American public is entitled to assess how their senators and representatives did
on the issue ``before they decide who to send back,'' he said.

A number of senators and all House members face re-election races this fall.

The Senate on Thursday passed a bill that provides stepped-up border security,
guest-worker programs to bring in new foreign workers and a chance at
citizenship for those guest workers and the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants already in the country.

The House bill, which triggered massive street protests around the country, is
generally limited to border enforcement and cracking down on employers who hire
illegal immigrants.

``I would like to see a bill passed and signed into law. However, I'm a realist,
you know, and given the fact that the Senate and the House started miles apart,
and, as a result of some amendments that were offered in the Senate, miles have
become moons apart or oceans apart, this has made a difficult task even more
so,'' Sensenbrenner said.

The House bill would make all illegal immigrants subject to felony charges. It
has no provision for either a new temporary-worker program or a pathway to
citizenship for people unlawfully in the country.

Sensenbrenner acknowledged it is impractical to round up 12 million immigrants
illegally in the country. He said border controls and enforcement of employer
sanctions -- a maximum $40,000 fine per illegal worker in the House bill --
would dry up jobs for illegal immigrants and they would go home voluntarily.

``I think the American people are willing to spend whatever it takes to secure
the border. And securing the border is not just an immigration issue. It's a
drug enforcement and national security issue, as well,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Senate bill to cost $126 billion, report says;
10-YEAR ESTIMATE OF BENEFITS FOR WORKERS

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 415 words


The Senate's embattled immigration bill would raise government spending by as
much as $126 billion over the next decade, as the government begins paying out
federal benefits to millions of new legal workers and cracks down on the border,
a new Congressional Budget Office analysis concludes.

Law enforcement measures would necessitate hiring nearly 31,000 federal workers
in the next five years, while the building and maintenance of 870 miles of
fencing and vehicle barriers would cost $3.3 billion. Newly legalized immigrants
would claim nearly $50 billion in federal benefits such as the earned-income and
child tax credits, Medicaid and Social Security.

Under the bill, passed this spring by a bipartisan Senate coalition, tough
border-security measures would be coupled with a path to legal work and
citizenship for most of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants and a new
guest-worker program for prospective immigrants.

President Bush applauded its passage, but House GOP leaders have dug in their
heels against it, favoring a House-passed measure that would make illegal
immigrants felons, build hundreds of miles of fencing on the southern border and
offer no new guest-worker programs.

The non-partisan CBO analysis is sure to offer fuel for the fight.

``The cost aspect of the Senate plan has never been taken into consideration,''
said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., who is leading the resistance to the Senate
bill. ``When combined with the policy implementations, this should certainly
stick a fork in it.''

Supporters of the legislation cautioned that the CBO's total needs to be put
into context. For instance, most of the $78 billion in discretionary spending
that the Senate bill authorizes through 2016 would fund law enforcement measures
that conservatives are pushing for anyway.

The CBO's five-year cost estimates include $800 million to hire 1,000 additional
Border Patrol agents; $2.6 billion to build detention facilities for 20,000;
$3.3 billion to build and maintain 370 miles of border fencing and 500 miles of
vehicle barriers along the U.S.-Mexico frontier; and $1.6 billion to establish a
computerized system to verify the eligibility of applicants for lawful
employment.

``Most people recognize there is going to be a price tag for fixing a broken
immigration system,'' said Ben Johnson, director of the Immigration Policy
Center, which favors the Senate bill. ``It still comes down to the moral
question of `How do we create a new, workable immigration policy?' ''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday

Congress plays political games with piecemeal legislation

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 363 words


Building a fence along the Mexican border could make sense as part of a
comprehensive immigration bill that balances border enforcement with a
guest-worker plan and a process for illegal workers to become citizens. But as a
pre-election rush job, Senate Republican leader Bill Frist's fence bill is a bad
idea that could block attempts to craft a good bill in the future.

In the House, Republicans are pushing a bill to require voters to show photo
identification -- ostensibly to deter illegal immigrants from voting. Voting by
non-citizens is not a major problem. It's hard enough to get U.S. citizens to
vote and foolish to put unneeded obstacles in the way.

Congress should stop playing political games with piecemeal immigration bills.
After the election, it will be time to go back to the table to work out a
comprehensive bipartisan compromise.

This year, the Senate passed the bipartisan McCain-Kennedy bill, which would
step up border enforcement while also offering illegal immigrants here for more
than five years a path to citizenship, if they pay fines, stay employed and
learn English. Those here for two to five years would have a chance to apply for
guest-worker status. President Bush favors this approach but hasn't persuaded
House Republicans to negotiate.

The House immigration bill passed in December is all stick and no carrot,
calling for a 700-mile fence, making illegal immigration a felony, levying
heavier penalties on companies that employ such workers and prosecuting people
who aid illegal immigrants, which could include church volunteers.

Frist says enforcement would be followed in time by measures to enable long-term
immigrants to legalize their status. But there's no guarantee that would happen,
because many House Republicans oppose any form of amnesty.

Deporting all illegal immigrants -- an estimated 11 million to 12 million
people, many of them with American-born children who are citizens -- isn't an
option. Completely sealing the border isn't an option, though a beefed-up Border
Patrol, high-tech surveillance and fencing would help.

Realistic immigration reform will require the sort of trade-offs that don't
happen in an election season.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 25, 2006 Monday

Farm industry pushes Congress on immigrants;
PLAN TO DOCUMENT MIGRANT WORKERS COULD HELP SHORTAGE

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 585 words


The agriculture industry, facing a major labor shortage in California and
elsewhere of the illegal immigrants on whom growers depend to tend and harvest
crops, is making a last-minute push to give undocumented farmworkers temporary
status as part of a border-security measure in Congress.

Farm groups are backing a proposal by Sens. Dianne Feinstein, a California
Democrat, and Larry Craig, an Idaho Republican, allowing undocumented
farmworkers to apply for a ``blue card'' if they can show they worked 150 days
during the past two years.

Holders of blue cards would be allowed to work an additional five years, and
would have a chance at permanent status if they agree to do farm work for at
least three more years. The program would cap blue cards at 1.5 million over
five years.

Jack King, director of national affairs for the California Farm Bureau
Federation, said his surveys show that the peak-harvest workforce in the state
this year of about 500,000 is down 20 percent, with a sharper drop-off for some
harvests.

The shortage of temporary farmworkers stems from several factors, observers say.
Many have shifted to permanent jobs, such as construction. Tougher border
security measures -- and publicity over the deployment of 6,000 National Guard
soldiers to assist the Border Patrol -- may have discouraged some seasonal
workers from entering the country this year.

Some crops, such as pears in Lake County and strawberries in the Pajaro Valley
of Santa Cruz, are being abandoned because farmers can't find enough workers,
King said.

With similar shortages in other states, farm groups are pressuring Republicans
in Congress to go beyond their ``enforcement-only'' approach before the Nov. 7
election and consider relief for growers and farmworkers. But with one week left
in the session, that's a long shot.

``We realize that Congress is more concerned with border enforcement right now,
and it will be tough to get this through in the next week,'' King said. ``But
we're going to try.''

During a visit to Congress last week, state growers were told by some California
Republicans that an agriculture-jobs measure might be considered during a
lame-duck session in November after the election.

Citing the importance of agriculture to California -- a $34 billion industry,
producing half the nation's vegetables, fruits and nuts -- Feinstein warned
Congress that the labor shortage is urgent.

``There is a crisis,'' she said. ``Everyone knows that agricultural labor is
virtually dependent on undocumented workers. This is a way to document them, to
ensure security and get the workforce for our farming communities.''

In recent days, the House has shown its intent to pursue only border-security
measures before the election. The House has refused to negotiate with the Senate
over a comprehensive immigration bill, passed by the Senate in May, that
includes a path to legal status for many of the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal residents.

The Senate bill includes the agriculture-jobs measure, which also has the
support of the United Farm Workers.

But the House has focused on such proposals as a 700-mile fence on the Mexican
border, which it approved this month for a second time. The fence also was part
of a larger immigration package the House approved in December.

The Senate may vote on the fence this week, and Feinstein and Craig urged
Majority Leader Bill Frist in a letter Friday to allow a vote on the jobs
measure as an amendment.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 25, 2006 Monday

Farm industry pushes Congress on immigrants;
PLAN TO DOCUMENT MIGRANT WORKERS COULD HELP SHORTAGE

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 585 words


The agriculture industry, facing a major labor shortage in California and
elsewhere of the illegal immigrants on whom growers depend to tend and harvest
crops, is making a last-minute push to give undocumented farmworkers temporary
status as part of a border-security measure in Congress.

Farm groups are backing a proposal by Sens. Dianne Feinstein, a California
Democrat, and Larry Craig, an Idaho Republican, allowing undocumented
farmworkers to apply for a ``blue card'' if they can show they worked 150 days
during the past two years.

Holders of blue cards would be allowed to work an additional five years, and
would have a chance at permanent status if they agree to do farm work for at
least three more years. The program would cap blue cards at 1.5 million over
five years.

Jack King, director of national affairs for the California Farm Bureau
Federation, said his surveys show that the peak-harvest workforce in the state
this year of about 500,000 is down 20 percent, with a sharper drop-off for some
harvests.

The shortage of temporary farmworkers stems from several factors, observers say.
Many have shifted to permanent jobs, such as construction. Tougher border
security measures -- and publicity over the deployment of 6,000 National Guard
soldiers to assist the Border Patrol -- may have discouraged some seasonal
workers from entering the country this year.

Some crops, such as pears in Lake County and strawberries in the Pajaro Valley
of Santa Cruz, are being abandoned because farmers can't find enough workers,
King said.

With similar shortages in other states, farm groups are pressuring Republicans
in Congress to go beyond their ``enforcement-only'' approach before the Nov. 7
election and consider relief for growers and farmworkers. But with one week left
in the session, that's a long shot.

``We realize that Congress is more concerned with border enforcement right now,
and it will be tough to get this through in the next week,'' King said. ``But
we're going to try.''

During a visit to Congress last week, state growers were told by some California
Republicans that an agriculture-jobs measure might be considered during a
lame-duck session in November after the election.

Citing the importance of agriculture to California -- a $34 billion industry,
producing half the nation's vegetables, fruits and nuts -- Feinstein warned
Congress that the labor shortage is urgent.

``There is a crisis,'' she said. ``Everyone knows that agricultural labor is
virtually dependent on undocumented workers. This is a way to document them, to
ensure security and get the workforce for our farming communities.''

In recent days, the House has shown its intent to pursue only border-security
measures before the election. The House has refused to negotiate with the Senate
over a comprehensive immigration bill, passed by the Senate in May, that
includes a path to legal status for many of the nation's estimated 12 million
illegal residents.

The Senate bill includes the agriculture-jobs measure, which also has the
support of the United Farm Workers.

But the House has focused on such proposals as a 700-mile fence on the Mexican
border, which it approved this month for a second time. The fence also was part
of a larger immigration package the House approved in December.

The Senate may vote on the fence this week, and Feinstein and Craig urged
Majority Leader Bill Frist in a letter Friday to allow a vote on the jobs
measure as an amendment.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 15, 2006 Saturday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 482 words

UNIVERSAL CITY

Schwarzenegger urges immigration action

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger scolded Congress on Friday for failing to enact
immigration reforms, saying lawmakers should put aside election-year jitters and
a new round of hearings and get to work.

Showing growing impatience with Washington -- and his own party -- the
Republican governor warned that illegal crossings and drug-running will persist
at the border as long as the House and Senate remain deadlocked.

``Don't run around the country now . . . and have all these hearings. You've had
for the last 20 years the time to have the hearings,'' Schwarzenegger said in
remarks to members of the California Newspaper Publishers Association.

Congress needs to ``do the work and be responsible,'' he said.

Schwarzenegger has long faulted the federal government for lax security at the
borders and praised efforts by the Minuteman Project civilian border patrols to
fill the gap.

California has more illegal immigrants than any other state -- an estimated 2.4
million.

GARDEN GROVE

Suspect is arrested in slaying of family

A man wanted in the stabbing deaths of a man and woman and the woman's
6-year-old son was arrested in Texas this week and returned to California, where
he was booked for investigation of murder, police said Friday.

Police found the bodies of Phuong Hung Le, 30, his wife, Trish Dawn Lam, 25, and
Lam's 6-year-old son, Tommy, on May 29 when they conducted a welfare check at
the family's Orange County home about 35 miles southeast of Los Angeles.

The couple's 1-year-old daughter was beaten, dehydrated and wearing a soiled
diaper when she was found with the bodies. She was placed in protective custody.

The name of the man arrested was not immediately available, but police Lt. Mike
Handfield said at a news conference Le met him when the two were in prison.

Investigators believe Le may have owed him a lot of money.

Handfield said Le was serving a four-year sentence for robbery and the suspect
was doing 14 years for home invasion robbery when the two met.

LONG BEACH

Fake disability alleged in criminal charges

Criminal charges were filed against a woman accused of faking a physical
disability and then suing Long Beach for disabilities act violations,
authorities said.

Laura Lee Medley, 36, faces felony charges of filing a false governmental claim
and committing perjury with a false affidavit, Deputy City Attorney Belinda
Mayes said Thursday.

Medley was pretending to be a paraplegic who used a wheelchair when she sued the
city for not complying with the Americans With Disabilities Act, which requires
wheelchair access in all public places, officials said.

Medley stood up from her wheelchair and ran from officers who were trying to
arrest her for alleged disabilities act fraud against San Bernardino.

She has also filed claims against South Pasadena, Alhambra and Riverside,
officials said.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday

Agents hunt for criminal migrants;
NEW IMMIGRATION TEAM TARGETS REGION

BYLINE: Nathaniel Hoffman, Knight Ridder

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 288 words


More deportation officers will comb the Bay Area starting next month as part of
a national campaign to arrest immigrants who have ignored orders to leave the
country, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement official said Thursday.

Fugitives operations within the immigration service are getting more money to
target some 560,000 people nationwide, including about 30,000 in the Bay Area
who have violated deportation orders, said Timothy Aitken, deputy director of
the agency's San Francisco field office.

``It's all part of the interior enforcement plan that we have here,'' Aitken
said. ``You can't have a strong border enforcement and not have interior
enforcement.''

The Department of Homeland Security got funding about a year ago for 52
additional fugitive operations teams, including one for the Bay Area and another
in Bakersfield, Aitken said.

The six-person teams are forming just as Congress considers a slew of
immigration reform proposals. While many lawmakers favor increased enforcement
at the border and inside the United States, some are also calling for a plan
that gives undocumented immigrants a legal way to remain in the country and
eventually to become citizens.

As the debate moves to the Senate next month, immigration officials are stepping
up enforcement in nearly a dozen high immigrant areas in California, Texas,
Florida and elsewhere.

Aitken said the deportation officers first target immigrant fugitives who also
have criminal records. The fugitives on their list have all been through
immigration court and had their due process, Aitken said.

But immigration attorneys said that the agency characterizes people with minor
crimes on their records as criminals and often snares their friends and
families.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 31, 2006 Tuesday

Latin America news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 306 words

MEXICO

Mexican official arrested in U.S. with 3 migrants

The U.S. Border Patrol has arrested a Mexican immigration official caught
traveling in the United States with a group of undocumented migrants, and may
charge him with human smuggling, U.S. officials said Monday.

Immigration agent Francisco Javier Gutiérrez, 43, was stopped Sunday at a
checkpoint near Alamogordo, N.M., about 80 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico
border, said Doug Mosier, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in El Paso, Texas.

He was traveling with three Mexican citizens who are believed to have sneaked
into the United States, Mosier said. All four detainees are being held by the
Border Patrol in El Paso pending charges, he said.

A government press release said Gutiérrez had been fired on corruption
allegations last year but returned to his job after winning a court case in
which he claimed he had been unfairly dismissed.

Female wrestler facing trial for woman's murder

A Mexico City judge ordered a female wrestler to stand trial on homicide charges
for the Jan. 25 strangulation killing of an 82-year-old woman; authorities
suspect her in about 10 other killings, but have not yet brought formal charges
in those cases.

The trial will apparently be held in a courtroom at Mexico City's Santa Martha
Acatitla prison, where suspect Juana Barraza, 48 -- who prosecutors describe as
the Mataviejitas, or ``little old lady killer'' -- is currently being held, the
government news agency Notimex reported.

Prosecutors have suggested Barraza acted out of anger, apparently because her
mother abandoned her as a young girl to a man who allegedly sexually abused her;
but they have also said she was conscious of, and responsible for, her acts.

Prosecutors said she has confessed to four killings, and her fingerprints match
those in a total of 10 cases.

From the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 15, 2006 Wednesday

Rally for religious duty;
BILL WOULD EXPAND DEFINITION OF `ALIEN SMUGGLING'

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words


Dozens of Bay Area religious leaders -- priests, nuns, rabbis, ministers and
Buddhist monks -- gathered on the steps of Mission Church at Santa Clara
University on Tuesday morning to denounce proposed federal legislation that they
claim threatens to make felons of millions of illegal immigrants and the clergy
who help them.

``There is a hue and a cry from the religious community on this,'' said the Rev.
Carol Been, a Lutheran minister and director of the Interfaith Council on
Religion, Race, Economic and Social Justice.

``It's a moral issue,'' she said.

The immigration reform bill, which is under consideration by the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, includes tougher enforcement, a guest worker program and a
chance for illegal immigrants to obtain legal status in the United States.

The religious leaders criticized provisions that would make it a crime to be in
the United States without proper documentation, and that expand the definition
of ``alien smuggling'' to include those who assist illegal immigrants to enter
or remain in the United States. Been and others fear this means that religious
service workers helping immigrants find jobs, learn English and fill out
immigration forms -- would be subject to criminal prosecution, too.

But this particular provision would only apply to ``churches that have crossed
the line'' by harboring illegal immigrants, said Ira Mehlman, a California
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group
that advocates for tougher immigration controls and enforcement against illegal
immigrants. The group does not support the bill, which was introduced by Sen.
Arlen Specter, R-Pa., because it believes its guest worker program, which allows
illegal immigrants to remain in the United States on temporary work permits, is
a kind of amnesty program.

The religious groups' attempt to cast the immigration reform debate as a moral
issue, and their claim that the bill will criminalize everyone working with
illegal immigrants, ``is a deliberate attempt to spread hysteria,'' Mehlman
said.

The local protest comes on the heels of a Lenten week call to his flock by
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles, to pray for tolerant and humane
immigration reform. A growing group of national religious organizations, joining
with labor, immigrant and civil rights groups, have been campaigning for
legislation that will offer illegal immigrants a path to legalization.

The Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose group,
has collected about 3,400 postcards signed by Bay Area opponents of the Specter
bill, urging U.S. Sen. Diane Feinstein, D-Calif., who is a member of the
Judiciary Committee, to reject provisions that would criminalize illegal
immigrants and religious workers who help them.

Martha Campos, an immigrant from Mexico and program director for SIREN, said the
support of the religious community and its strong stance against the Senate bill
was important.

When she immigrated to the United States in 1995, Campos said, ``the only place
I felt safe was my church.''

Feinstein has advocated for tougher border security, but she has not defined her
position on the Senate bill.

Thich Giac Luong, a Buddhist monk with the Phap Duyen Tinh Xa, a downtown San
Jose Vietnamese Buddhist temple, said the effect of the Specter bill is to
restrict freedoms.

For refugees, who fled to the United States in search of freedom and democracy,
the legislation is not humane, Luong said.

``When the bill criminalizes -- by prosecution, fines and possible imprisonment
-- organizations and individuals who assist undocumented persons,'' said the
Rev. Paul Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, ``it strikes at the
heart of the mandate to feed the hungry and comfort the victims of injustice.''

Locatelli said the bill is ``a revival of nativist sentiment born of fear like
the 19th century when `No Irish need apply' for employment.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 15, 2006 Wednesday

Religious leaders protest immigrantion bill

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 654 words


Dozens of Bay Area religious leaders - priests, nuns, rabbis, ministers and
Buddhist monks - gathered on the steps of Mission Church at Santa Clara
University Tuesday morning to denounce proposed federal legislation that they
claim threatens to make felons of millions of illegal immigrants and the clergy
who help them.

``There is a hue and a cry from the religious community on this,'' said the Rev.
Carol Been, a Lutheran minister and director of the Interfaith Council on
Religion, Race, Economic and Social Justice.

``It's a moral issue,'' she said.

The immigration reform bill, which is under consideration by the U.S. Senate
Judiciary committee, includes tougher enforcement, a guest worker program, and a
chance for illegal immigrants to obtain legal status in the United States.

The religious leaders criticized provisions that would make it a crime to be in
the U.S. illegally, and that expand the definition of ``alien smuggling'' to
include those who assist illegal immigrants to enter or remain in the United
States. Been and others fear this means that religious service workers helping
immigrants find jobs, learn English, and fill out immigration forms -- would be
subject to criminal prosecution, too.

But this particular provision would only apply to ``churches that have crossed
the line'' by harboring illegal immigrants, said Ira Mehlman, a California
spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national group
that advocates for tougher immigration controls and enforcement against illegal
immigrants. The group does not support the bill, which was introduced by Sen.
Arlen Spectre, because it believes its guest worker program, which allows
illegal immigrants to remain in the U.S. on temporary work permits, is a kind of
amnesty program.

The religious groups' attempt to cast the immigration reform debate as a moral
issue, and their claim that the bill will criminalize everyone working with
illegal immigrants, ``is a deliberate attempt to spread hysteria,'' Mehlman
said.

The local protest comes on the heels of a Lenten week call to his flock by
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, to pray for tolerant and humane immigration reform. A
growing group of national religious organizations, joining with labor, immigrant
and civil rights groups, have been campaigning for legislation that will offer
illegal immigrants a path to legalization.

The Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network (SIREN), a San Jose group,
has collected about 3,400 postcards signed by Bay Area opponents of the Specter
bill, urging U.S. Sen. Diane Feinstein, (D-CA), who is a member of the judiciary
committee, to reject provisions that will criminalize illegal immigrants, and
religious workers who help them.

Martha Campos, an immigrant from Mexico, and program director for SIREN, said
the support of the religious community and its strong stance against the senate
bill was important.

When she immigrated to the United States in 1995, Campos said ``the only place I
felt safe was my church.''

Feinstein has advocated for tougher border security, but she has not defined her
position on the senate bill.

Thich Giac Luong, a Buddhist monk with the Phap Duyen Tinh Xa, a downtown San
Jose Vietnamese Buddhist temple, said the effect of the Specter bill is to
restrict freedoms.

For refugees, who fled to the U.S. in search of freedom and democracy, the
legislation is not humane, Luong said.

``When the bill criminalizes -- by prosecution, fines and possible imprisonment
-- organizations and individuals who assist undocumented persons,'' said the
Rev. Paul Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, ``it strikes at the
heart of the mandate to feed the hungry and comfort the victims of injustice.''

Locatelli said the bill is ``a revival of nativist sentiment born of fear like
the 19th century when ``No Irish need apply'' for employment.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday

Immigration fight looms

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 363 words


As the Senate prepares to tackle the most sweeping immigration reforms in years,
a top Democrat vowed Wednesday to do everything in his power, including
filibuster, to thwart Majority Leader Bill Frist's proposed overhaul.

Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., said he would ``use every procedural means
at my disposal'' to prevent Frist from bypassing the Judiciary Committee. Frist,
R-Tenn., has made clear the Senate will take up his proposal next week if the
18-member committee fails to complete a broader bill.

``If Leader Frist brings a bill to the floor that does not have the approval of
the Judiciary Committee, it will not get out of the Senate,'' Reid told
reporters at the San Ysidro border crossing.

Bob Stevenson, a Frist press officer, did not immediately respond to a call
Wednesday evening.

Reid said the overhaul must include heightened border enforcement, a ``guest
worker'' program and a ``path to citizenship'' for the estimated 11 million
people in the United States illegally.

President Bush, in a State of the Union address two years ago, urged Congress to
create a worker program under which participants could gain legal status for a
specific time and then be required to return home. It would not provide an
automatic path to citizenship.

Frist unveiled a bill last week that sidesteps the question of temporary work
permits. It would tighten borders, punish employers who hire illegal immigrants
and provide more visas.

On other issues Wednesday, Reid called Bush ``dangerously incompetent'' and said
the administration ought to be doing more to prevent increasing sectarian
violence in Iraq.

``Where is Condoleezza Rice? Why isn't she over in the Middle East, as the chief
diplomat of this country should be, trying to get the political forces to form a
government over there?'' Reid said about the secretary of state. Rice last
visited Iraq in November.

Reid said the United States was ``failing three different ways in Iraq.''
Military efforts have lagged, the economy is crippled by decreased oil and
electricity production, and attempts to form a representative government are
behind schedule, he said.

The White House did not return calls seeking comment.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

SF activists on hunger strike for undocumented immigrants

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 235 words


Friday night's rain did not stop more than 50 activists from continuing a hunger
strike in front of the San Francisco Federal Building.

The hunger strike, in its fifth day today, is part of a weeklong protest against
U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter's bill, which activists say unfairly targets
undocumented immigrants.

The House of Representatives passed the `Border Protection Anti-Terrorism, and
Illegal Immigration Control Act,'' also known as HR 4437 on Dec. 16, 2005.

The senate plans to review the bill this month.

On Friday afternoon activists delivered 8,000 postcards signed by Bay Area
residents to Sen. Diane Feinstein's San Francisco office. The postcards urged
Feinstein to support comprehensive immigration reform. They stated, `we need you
to demonstrate leadership by opposing mean-spirited attempts at 'immigration
reform' that only criminalize immigrants and threaten caring individuals that
help those in need.`

`We are hoping that Feinstein will take a leadership role in opposing Specter's
bill. We want to know her stance on indoctrinated immigrants,` said activist
Sheila Chung, daughter of immigrant parents from Korea and Argentina.

A candlelight vigil is scheduled for 6 p.m. today in front of the Federal
Building located at 450 Golden Gate Ave.

Those participating in the hunger strike are journaling their daily activities
in an online blog, which can be found at http://immigrantrights.blogspot.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

ADVOCATES FIGHT BACK;
PRESIDENTS TO MEET AS DEBATE HEATS UP

BYLINE: William Douglas, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words


President Bush will meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox in Cancún on
Thursday to discuss immigration reform, even as the Senate debates whether to
give legal status to the millions of illegal immigrants who are already in the
United States.

Bush and Fox are scheduled to meet in the Yucatán vacation resort as part of a
trilateral summit with new Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper. While Bush
has serious economic issues to address with Harper, U.S.-Mexican immigration is
expected to dominate the two-day meeting.

``The immigration debate is a vital debate for our country,'' Bush said
Thursday, after a White House meeting on the issue with agricultural and
religious leaders. ``It must be done in a way that doesn't pit one group of
people against another.''

But Friday, further evidence emerged that Bush would not get his wish for a
non-divisive debate. Thousands of people across the country protested against
legislation cracking down on illegal immigrants, with demonstrators in such
cities as Los Angeles, Phoenix and Atlanta staging school walkouts, marches and
work stoppages.

Congress is considering legislation that would make it a felony to be illegally
in the United States, impose new penalties on employers who hire illegal
immigrants and erect fences along one-third of the U.S.-Mexican border. The
proposals have angered many Latinos.

The Los Angeles demonstration led to fights between black and Latino students at
one high school, but the protests were largely peaceful, authorities said.

In Phoenix, police said 10,000 demonstrators marched to the office of Republican
Sen. Jon Kyl, co-sponsor of a bill that would give illegal immigrants up to five
years to leave the country. The turnout clogged a major thoroughfare.

``They're here for the American Dream,'' said Malissa Greer, 29, who joined a
crowd estimated by police to be at least 10,000 strong.

Kyl had no immediate comment on the rally.

In Georgia, activists said tens of thousands of workers did not show up at their
jobs Friday after calls for a work stoppage to protest a bill passed by the
Georgia House on Thursday.

That bill, which has yet to gain state Senate approval, would deny state
services to adults living in the United States illegally and impose a 5 percent
surcharge on wire transfers from illegal immigrants.

Supporters say the Georgia measure is vital to homeland security and frees up
limited state services for people legally entitled to them. Opponents say it
unfairly targets workers meeting the demands of some of the state's largest
industries.

Many in Washington question whether any immigration legislation can pass this
year. Bush is weakened by low approval ratings, and opposition to illegal
immigration has become a red-hot issue in many states where lawmakers face
voters in November. Moreover, several potential 2008 presidential candidates are
weighing in from opposing sides, lessening the chance for compromise.

``There's nothing that Bush can promise credibly to the Mexicans,'' said George
Grayson, a professor who specializes in U.S.-Mexico relations at Virginia's
College of William and Mary. ``He's had a rough couple of months, and the
Republicans sought to separate themselves from him in the Dubai Ports deal. They
have a chance to do it again with immigration.''

That isn't stopping Bush from promoting his plan to overhaul immigration law. He
highlights his call for a guest-worker program, which would allow illegal
immigrants and foreign workers to apply for temporary legal status to accept
U.S. jobs. After a maximum of six years, they would be required to go back to
their home countries and would not be placed on track for permanent residency.

Bowing to rising resentment of illegal immigrants across the heartland, Bush
also has recently emphasized tighter security along the U.S.-Mexican border and
called for illegal immigrants registering for his guest-worker program to pay
unspecified fines.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., a potential 2008 presidential
candidate, is staking out a harder stance. The Senate will begin two weeks of
debate on immigration Tuesday, and Frist is sponsoring a bill that would toughen
border security without offering a guest-worker program.

His proposal mirrors an enforcement-only bill that the House of Representatives
passed Dec. 16. Lawmakers opposing the guest-worker plan say giving illegal
immigrants the opportunity to work and live here legally would reward bad
behavior.

Meanwhile, on Monday the Senate Judiciary Committee will take up a bill by Sens.
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and John McCain, R-Ariz., another likely 2008
presidential candidate, that would let illegal immigrants hold temporary work
visas for up to six years after they pay $1,000 fines and pass background
checks. Illegal immigrants could apply for permanent residence and eventual
citizenship under the Kennedy-McCain measure.

Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the panel's chair, is trying to broker a compromise
that includes guest-worker and enforcement provisions.

Most experts think Bush faces an uphill fight to win congressional approval of
any terms granting legal status to illegal immigrants, which opponents denounce
as amnesty for lawbreakers.

``I think it's going to be difficult for the president,'' said Ira Mehlman of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which opposes giving legal
status to illegal immigrants. ``Whatever political capital he thought he had
last year is spent and, like the rest of the federal government, is in deficit.
Amnesty, on a visceral level, most Americans object to.''

In a Quinnipiac national survey last month, 62 percent said they oppose making
it easier for illegal immigrants to become citizens, while only 32 percent
supported the idea. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll two weeks ago found
that 56 percent said the United States should not grant temporary-worker status
to illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

S.J. marchers back immigrant rights;
SEPARATE GROUPS MERGE ON COMMON GROUND OF DIGNITY

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 839 words


About 5,000 marchers opposed to crackdowns on illegal immigrants swelled
downtown San Jose streets on Saturday, the largest Bay Area protest yet
denouncing federal legislation that would make felons out of illegal immigrants.

The march, which forced the closure of some traffic lanes, grew spontaneously
from an East San Jose rally to a three-mile-long walk, and was among dozens held
in recent days around the country to demonstrate against immigration-reform
legislation pending in Congress.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, who had gathered at Cesar Chavez plaza with other local
politicians for a separate event commemorating Chavez's March 31 birthday, said
he was thrilled to see so many marchers.

``They're paying attention,'' said Honda, D-Campbell, who opposes the felon
legislation, as he sized up the crowd from the stage. ``It's a bad deal. This
country has always liked to scapegoat its immigrants. This is 2006, and we still
haven't learned. We're still scapegoating.''

Protests were also held Saturday in Los Angeles, where more than 500,000 marched
in front of City Hall, and San Francisco, where 20 immigrant rights advocates
began their fifth day of a hunger strike in front of the Federal Building.
Wearing white as a sign of peace, and waving flags from the United States,
Mexico, Guatemala and other countries, they said they came to show that illegal
immigrants already are part of the American fabric and want the chance to be
legal, law-abiding citizens.

Police Cmdr. Louis Gray Jr., incident commander for the Los Angeles rally, said,
``I've been on the force 38 years, and I've never seen a rally this big.''

San Jose protesters aimed their ire most directly at H.R. 4437, a bill that
would criminalize illegal immigrants and increase penalties against their
employers. It passed the House in December and debate in the Senate is scheduled
to begin this week.

Other proposals, ranging from building a fence at the border to making
citizenship easier for guest workers, have reinvigorated the debate nationally
and locally over the fate of the nation's estimated 11 million-plus illegal
immigrants, roughly one quarter of whom live in California.

Many of Saturday's marchers waved American and Mexican flags and carried posters
with messages such as ``We are not criminals'' and ``We pay taxes, too.''

They were met near San Jose City Hall by a separate, much smaller group, whose
members carried United Farm Workers flags and were participating in the 13th
annual march in honor of UFW founder Chavez's birthday.

``If Cesar was here, he would be marching in support of inclusiveness and
against this legislation,'' said Rudy Medina, Chavez's nephew.

Police were forced to close westbound lanes of East Santa Clara Street for the
blocks leading to downtown. The two groups ended up at Plaza de Cesar Chavez,
where they held separate rallies and milled about at a Chavez birthday festival,
which continues today.

Although the anti-immigration reform march had been advertised on local
Spanish-language radio stations and was spread by word of mouth for days, its
organizers and San Jose police said they were surprised by the large turnout.

Several marchers interviewed said they were in the U.S. legally, holding jobs
such as construction workers and printers, and wanted laws changed to ease the
road to citizenship.

Among them were Javier Rodriguez and his son, also, Javier.

``I love this country,'' said Javier Rodriguez, who works legally as a printer
and marched with his 11-year-old son, Javier.

He hopes to become a citizen.

``We are not criminals. We come here to get jobs so we can make money,'' added
the younger Javier, a fifth-grader at Slonaker Elementary School.

To deal with the unexpected crowd, a San Jose police spokeswoman said between 30
and 40 officers who had not been scheduled to work were called in for traffic
and crowd control. She said no incidents were reported.

Police Chief Rob Davis, who participated in the Chavez birthday march, helped
direct traffic himself at one point.

Organizers said media coverage of huge Friday protests elsewhere likely
galvanized the largely immigrant crowd, which had gathered in front of Mi Pueblo
Foods, at King and Story roads, for a rally.

``Someone held up a Mexican flag, and people started marching behind it,'' said
Chris Lepe, a volunteer organizer.

San Jose Vice Mayor Cindy Chavez, who spoke at the Chavez event and is no
relation, said she and three of her council colleagues on Tuesday will introduce
a resolution asking the local congressional delegation to oppose some of the
reform legislation.

Chavez said she fears some of the proposals could force city employees to take
on federal immigration roles, such as identifying illegal immigrants.

Ian Meyer, of San Jose, however, said he views illegal immigration as a problem.
``Everyone should be given a chance to work, but not if they are here
illegally.''

Mercury News Staff Writer Dana Hull and the Associated Press contributed to this
report. Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

S.J. marchers back immigrant rights;
SEPARATE GROUPS MERGE ON COMMON GROUND OF DIGNITY

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words


About 5,000 marchers opposed to crackdowns on illegal immigrants swelled
downtown San Jose streets on Saturday, the largest Bay Area protest yet
denouncing federal legislation that would make felons out of illegal immigrants.

The march, which forced the closure of some traffic lanes, grew spontaneously
from an East San Jose rally to a three-mile-long walk, and was among dozens held
in recent days around the country to demonstrate against immigration-reform
legislation pending in Congress.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, who had gathered at Cesar Chavez plaza with other local
politicians for a separate event commemorating Chavez's March 31 birthday, said
he was thrilled to see so many marchers.

``They're paying attention,'' said Honda, D-Campbell, who opposes the felon
legislation, as he sized up the crowd from the stage. ``It's a bad deal. This
country has always liked to scapegoat its immigrants. This is 2006, and we still
haven't learned. We're still scapegoating.''

Protests were also held Saturday in Los Angeles, where more than 500,000 marched
in front of City Hall, and San Francisco, where 20 immigrant rights advocates
began their fifth day of a hunger strike in front of the Federal Building.
Wearing white as a sign of peace, and waving flags from the United States,
Mexico, Guatemala and other countries, they said they came to show that illegal
immigrants already are part of the American fabric and want the chance to be
legal, law-abiding citizens.

Police Cmdr. Louis Gray Jr., incident commander for the Los Angeles rally, said,
``I've been on the force 38 years, and I've never seen a rally this big.''

San Jose protesters aimed their ire most directly at H.R. 4437, a bill that
would criminalize illegal immigrants and increase penalties against their
employers. It passed the House in December and debate in the Senate is scheduled
to begin this week.

Other proposals, ranging from building a fence at the border to making
citizenship easier for guest workers, have reinvigorated the debate nationally
and locally over the fate of the nation's estimated 11 million-plus illegal
immigrants, roughly one quarter of whom live in California.

Many of Saturday's marchers waved American and Mexican flags and carried posters
with messages such as ``We are not criminals'' and ``We pay taxes, too.''

They were met near San Jose City Hall by a separate, much smaller group, whose
members carried United Farm Workers flags and were participating in the 13th
annual march in honor of UFW founder Chavez's birthday.

``If Cesar was here, he would be marching in support of inclusiveness and
against this legislation,'' said Rudy Medina, Chavez's nephew.

Police were forced to close westbound lanes of East Santa Clara Street for the
blocks leading to downtown. The two groups ended up at Plaza de Cesar Chavez,
where they held separate rallies and milled about at a Chavez birthday festival,
which continues today.

Although the anti-immigration reform march had been advertised on local
Spanish-language radio stations and was spread by word of mouth for days, its
organizers and San Jose police said they were surprised by the large turnout.

Several marchers interviewed said they were in the U.S. legally, holding jobs
such as construction workers and printers, and wanted laws changed to ease the
road to citizenship.

Among them were Javier Rodriguez and his son, also, Javier.

``I love this country,'' said Javier Rodriguez, who works legally as a printer
and marched with his 11-year-old son, Javier.

He hopes to become a citizen.

``We are not criminals. We come here to get jobs so we can make money,'' added
the younger Javier, a fifth-grader at Slonaker Elementary School.

To deal with the unexpected crowd, a San Jose police spokeswoman said between 30
and 40 officers who had not been scheduled to work were called in for traffic
and crowd control. She said no incidents were reported.

Police Chief Rob Davis, who participated in the Chavez birthday march, helped
direct traffic himself at one point.

Organizers said media coverage of huge Friday protests elsewhere likely
galvanized the largely immigrant crowd, which had gathered in front of Mi Pueblo
Foods, at King and Story roads, for a rally.

``Someone held up a Mexican flag, and people started marching behind it,'' said
Chris Lepe, a volunteer organizer.

San Jose Vice Mayor Cindy Chavez, who spoke at the Chavez event and is no
relation, said she and three of her council colleagues on Tuesday will introduce
a resolution asking the local congressional delegation to oppose some of the
reform legislation.

Chavez said she fears some of the proposals could force city employees to take
on federal immigration roles, such as identifying illegal immigrants.

Ian Meyer, of San Jose, however, said he views illegal immigration as a problem.
``Everyone should be given a chance to work, but not if they are here
illegally.''

But other bystanders said they sympathized with the marchers. ``We Americans
have become lazy and greedy,'' said Corrina Rangle, a San Jose preschool
teacher. ``Who is out cutting the grass when it gets tall, working in fast-food
restaurants? We don't want to do the work, and they are hard workers.''

Mercury News Staff Writer Dana Hull and the Associated Press contributed to this
report. Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

IMMIGRATION UPDATE

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 379 words


Highlights of major proposals in Congress:

Senate committee's bill

Allows illegal immigrants who were in the United States before 2004 to continue
working legally for six years if they pay a $1,000 fine and clear a criminal
background check. They would become eligible for permanent residence upon paying
another $1,000 fine and back taxes and having learned English.

New immigrants would have to have temporary work visas. They also could earn
legal permanent residence after six years.

Adds up to 14,000new Border Patrol agents by 2011 to the current force of
11,300.

Creates a special guest-worker program for an estimated 1.5 million immigrant
farm workers, who can also earn legal permanent residency.

Bill Frist's proposal

Requires all employersto verify the identity and immigration status of their
employees through an electronic system.

Assesses civil and criminal penalties for employers hiring illegal immigrants.

More than doubles the number of employment-based green cards, from 140,000 to
290,000.

Cancels visasof immigrants who have overstayed their visas and requires them to
return to their home country to undergo additional screening at U.S. consulates.

Increasesthe numberof visas available for high-tech workers.

House bill passed in December

Requires all employers to verify the identity and immigration status of their
employees through an electronic system.

Requires all employersto use within six years a database to verify Social
Security numbers of employees or face civil or criminal penalties for hiring
illegal workers.

Makes illegal presence in the country a felony.

Requires building two-layer fences along 700 miles of the 2,000-mile border
between Mexico and the United States.

TWENTY YEARS AGO . . .

Highlights of the sweeping illegal immigration law passed under President Reagan
in 1986:

Offers citizenshipto those who lived in the United States without immigration
papers for five years or more.

Calls for fines of up to $10,000 and jail terms of up to six months for
employers who knowingly and repeatedly hire illegal residents.

Doubles the sizeof the Border Patrol.

Guarantees growers, most of them in the West, a pool of temporary workers for
the next seven years, some of whom could eventually become citizens.

Source: Associated Press; Mercury News archives

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Poll reflects ethnic voice;
MOST LEGAL EMIGRANTS BACK ILLEGAL ENTRANTS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words


Legal immigrants in the United States view undocumented immigrants favorably and
support legislation that would give them a path to citizenship, according to a
national, multilingual poll released Tuesday.

These findings, pollster Sergio Bendixen said, contradict an oft-quoted belief
that legal immigrants ``harbor animosity toward undocumented immigrants for
cutting in'' on a long, backlogged line toward legalization.

``This polls shows the opposite,'' he said. ``That's an interesting insight.''

Commissioned by the New America Media (NAM), a national organization of ethnic
media, the poll was conducted by telephone during a four-week period through
last week. It was co-sponsored by the liberal Washington, D.C., think tank the
Center for American Progress and a national civil rights group, the Leadership
Conference on Civil Rights.

``So much of the immigration debate is about illegal immigrants, and we so
quickly forget a whole nation of legal immigrants. Their voice is lost in the
debate,'' said Dan Restrepo a senior policy adviser for the Center for American
Progress. ``That's the most valuable thing about this.''

Sandy Close, executive director of NAM, said it was ``important to bring the
collective voice of immigrants who are the target of the political debate'' as
Congress begins deliberations this week on a sweeping immigration reform bill.

Conducted in English, Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Vietnamese, Korean, Tagalog,
Hindi and Haitian Creole, the poll asked legal immigrants if they believe that
illegal immigrants take away jobs from citizens and legal immigrants.

An overwhelming majority, 81 percent, said illegal immigrants take jobs that no
one else wants to do. Only 11 percent said illegal immigrants take jobs from
legal residents.

Asked how they view the role of illegal immigrants in the U.S. economy, 73
percent said they help the economy by providing low-cost labor. Seventeen
percent said illegal immigrants hurt the economy by driving down wages.

Bendixen said he was surprised by the unity of opinion across ethnic groups
because he had expected great differences among Latinos, Asians and Europeans. A
large majority, 67 percent, agreed that anti-immigrant sentiment is growing in
the United States. Twenty-six percent disagreed.

``What this told me is the alarm about the rhetoric and tone and substance of
the debate,'' Close said. ``They feared anti-immigrant sentiment was on the
rise.''

A majority, 55 percent of those surveyed, said they have been affected by the
rise in anti-immigrant sentiment.

``They should be alarmed,'' said Rosa Medina, 43, of San Jose, one of 800 legal
immigrants from 40 countries polled by NAM. ``A lot of things are going on right
now and they aren't right.''

Like a majority of those polled, Medina, who is a U.S. citizen -- she emigrated
from Jalisco, Mexico, 25 years ago -- said she favored legislation now being
considered by the U.S. Senate that would give illegal immigrants a chance to
gain legal status.

``They are not getting this as a favor,'' she said. ``They work hard like the
rest of us, and they are contributing members of our community.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday

U.S. must advance assimilation of legal immigrants

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 803 words


Hypocrisy and paradoxes abound when it comes to illegal immigration.

Even the fiercest critics of illegal immigrants in the American Southwest never
seem to check first the legal status of those who fix their roofs, mow their
lawns or wash their dishes.

This past week, thousands of Latino demonstrators, fearful of strict new
immigration laws, chanted ``Mexico'' and for some reason waved the flag of the
country they fled from and most certainly do not want to return to.

Increasingly, Latin American governments have elected vocal anti-American
politicians -- even as they count on their citizens leaving for the United
States in record numbers.

The Mexican government seeks to entice wealthy retired Americans to build homes
south of the U.S. border, even as it exports its own homeless to this country.
What a cynical mindset: ``You take our Mexican poor, we'll take your American
rich.''

Opponents of illegal immigration lament the skyrocketing costs of incarcerating
thousands of illegal immigrants, and providing health benefits to many others.
They ignore that such public-entitlement costs are partially offset by the
private subsidy that the cheap labor amounts to.

On the other hand, supporters of the status quo tend only to cite statistics
showing how illegal immigrants prop up the American economy -- as if workers who
have little education, less English and no legal status will not get ill, hurt
or in trouble.

Illegal immigration is so embedded in issues of history, exploitation, race,
class and money that the mere discussion of it has a way of turning surreal.

So we talk of a guest-worker program as if the million willing Mexicans a year
who won't qualify for it will smile and stay home. And, even for those who do
qualify, a guest-worker program is a bad idea, for it perpetuates the notion of
``good enough to work, not good enough to stay.'' We should evolve from, not
institutionalize, the two-tier system of ``them and us.''

We also talk of deportation as if it were feasible to send back 11 million
people to Mexico in the largest population movement since the British partition
of India.

And we don'ttalk of the greatest collective violation of American immigration
laws in our history.

But there is still a solution to the immigration problem: It involves supporting
any practice that leads to the assimilation of legal Mexican immigrants into the
American mainstream -- and opposing everything that does not.

Employers and La Raza activists who thrive on the current non-system might not
like that approach, but it is the only way to avoid the gathering political and
cultural storm.

As we've seen from second- and third-generation legal immigrants, when a person
from Mexico comes to the United States with legal documentation, learns English
and regards an unskilled job as the start, not the end, of a career, success
most often follows.

And when immigrants, of all nationalities, find themselves surrounded by others
from all over the world, they generally accept English as our vital bond and see
that a common culture, not race, is what matters.

Second, numbers are important. The United States can assimilate hundreds of
thousands of Mexicans, as it does with other immigrant groups, who come legally
and are integrated throughout the nation in multiethnic neighborhoods. But it
cannot assimilate quickly millions of abject poor who live in apartheid
communities. There the joy of reaching the United States is replaced by the
bitterness of becoming part of its collective underclass.

Third, immigrants can survive one strike against them, maybe two -- but not
three. A Mexican citizen who is here illegally might do well with fluent English
and a high-school diploma. But when one is illegal, not fluent in English and
without education -- and immersed with millions who share such disadvantages --
then we witness the sort of raw emotion now on display in Congress and on our
streets.

So, given these realities, we should allow those illegal immigrants who have
been living and working here for at least five years to start their citizenship
process. But we should insist this be a one-time exemption rather than yet
another periodic amnesty that encourages others to break the law and unfairly
cut ahead in the immigration line.

Meanwhile, border enforcement, employer sanctions, walls and more officers to
prevent illegal immigration will work, but only if we allow Mexico a generous
quota of legal immigrants.

The real immigration debate is about turning legal arrivals into citizens. But
we cannot do that until we work with those already here -- and ensure that
others in the future come legally and in measured numbers and so don't repeat
the shared mistakes of our past.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON (author@victorhanson.com) is a classicist and historian at
Stanford University's Hoover Institution.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

Cities are on front lines of immigration controversy

BYLINE: Gillian Flaccus, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 414 words


The patchwork of policies that forms U.S. immigration law is nowhere more
visible than in this town where millionaires mix with Southern California's
blue-collar workforce.

Last month, police turned over eight illegal immigrants waiting for work outside
a Home Depot to federal officials for deportation to Mexico. Not far away, a
city-sponsored day labor center helps employers find workers, some of them
undocumented.

The contrast encapsulates challenges facing cities nationwide. As Congress
debates whether to change national immigration policy, cities are reacting to
the realities of current law. And they're largely on their own.

Federal failures to control the borders or punish employers who hire
undocumented workers have frustrated local officials. The result is a hodgepodge
of policies.

``If the feds could get their act together and control immigration, things would
go a lot smoother for these localities,'' said Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at
the Manhattan Institute in Washington, D.C. ``The local communities are on the
front lines and they're left to deal with this.''

Nowhere are the conflicting policies more acute than Orange County, home to
rapid demographic change and birthplace of the citizen movement to patrol the
U.S.-Mexico border.

The official day labor center in Orange includes a bathroom and bike rack, and
costs the city nearly $38,000 per year. Workers feel safe enough to congregate
for work, mainly in construction.

Meanwhile, police have handed over 80 suspected illegal immigrants to the U.S.
Border Patrol since last summer, said Sgt. Dave Hill. Mostly men, they were
arrested for soliciting work on private property and were turned over to
immigration because they couldn't produce proper identification.

Hill said the city established the day labor center in 1989 to prevent such
soliciting and arrested the workers only after receiving hundreds of complaints
about public urination and drinking.

The city is not required to turn over illegal immigrants under federal law --
but that's its policy because the city ``wants to make sure they are who they
say they are,'' said Mayor Mark Murphy.

Illegal immigrants in the quiet suburb know their presence causes tension but
say they have little choice because they must find work.

``I know the white people are thinking it's wrong because there are too many
people and it looks bad,'' said Miguel Angel Vasquez, a 32-year-old illegal
immigrant who's been in the country for 11 years. ``But we need a job.''

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Clergy leading call for humane immigrant laws

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words


In the boiling congressional debate over the future of 12 million undocumented
immigrants, a new, critical player has emerged to reshape the arguments and the
issue: the nation's churches and religious leaders.

Religious groups, led by the Roman Catholic Church, have joined business, labor
and immigrant advocacy groups to galvanize surprisingly widespread support for
protecting the rights of undocumented immigrants. Already, their efforts --
punctuated by national rallies, hunger strikes and walkouts -- have undercut an
effort to criminalize illegal immigration.

And now they are propelling a more lenient Senate immigration reform bill, which
gives legal status to illegal immigrants already in the United States. The
proposal also includes tighter border controls and a guest-worker program
supported by labor.

``We have found a moral voice that people are ready to hear,'' declared the Rev.
Carol Been, a Lutheran minister and director of a South Bay interfaith council.

Been and dozens of religious leaders from the Bay Area and around the country
stood in the hallway of the U.S. Senate building last week, holding hands,
humming ``We Shall Overcome,'' as the Senate Judiciary Committee debated the
sweeping reform bill.

Catholic worshipers in churches in San Jose and Gilroy collected 8,000 signed
postcards from the Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, urging Sen.
Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., to support ``a just and humane immigration reform.''

At a Tuesday rally in San Jose City Hall, clergy from different religious groups
raised handcuffed hands -- a symbol of solidarity -- after learning that evening
that the Senate Judiciary Committee had sent a bill to the floor that excluded
criminal punishment for undocumented immigrants and included a path to
legalization.

``The business community is in the best position to argue the need for
workers,'' said Angelo Amador, director of immigration policy for the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. ``The unions are the best to argue why legalization is not
just an issue of labor but of protecting workers.

``But the churches brought the humanitarian perspective that to a large degree
was forgotten,'' Amador said. ``We know what that argument is, but the churches
were the best to articulate that.''

The religious community's active participation in the debate about immigration
is not surprising in one sense, because immigrants, particularly Latinos, have
become the dominant faces of many congregations. For Catholics, taking up the
issue fits a historical pattern of extending a hand to newcomers -- first the
Irish, the Italians, now Latinos -- and the church's core belief in social
justice.

What is new, and unexpected, is the prominence of religious voices. Churches
initially came into the immigration issue out of necessity rather than choice.
An earlier version of the immigration bill, approved by the House of
Representatives last year, would have subjected to criminal penalties not only
undocumented immigrants but also anyone who aided them -- family members,
social-service workers and the clergy. Church leaders reacted vehemently against
that notion.

Call for tolerance

At the beginning of Lent, Cardinal Roger Mahony, who oversees a flock of 5
million Catholics in the Los Angeles area, encouraged church leaders to
challenge that part of the legislation. His highly publicized remarks also
included a strong message of tolerance for illegal immigrants.

``Cardinal Mahony speaking out unleashed something really big,'' said Cecilia
Muñoz, vice president for policy for the National Council of La Raza, a civil
rights group. ``He, the church, made this issue public in a very profound way.''

Now, even though the proposed legislation has been softened, churches have
retained center stage in the immigration debate -- a role that some have likened
to the religion-infused discourse of the civil rights movement in the 1960s.

Among some Protestant Latino clergy, there was strong support for a ``humane
process,'' in the treatment of undocumented immigrants, said Juan Martinez,
assistant dean for Hispanic church studies at Fuller Theological Seminary in
Southern California, one of the world's largest multi-denominational seminaries.

``Cardinal Mahony gave a public voice for what a lot of us were thinking and
feeling,'' Martinez said. ``We felt sympathy for the stand that he took: that we
had a pastoral role that was fundamental.''

Pastoral leadership

Martinez is part of the Red de Pastores y Lideres Latinos del Sur de California
(Network of Latino Pastors and Leaders in Southern California), a group that
brought together leaders representing 1,200 Latino Protestant churches in
Southern California to oppose the initial House legislation and to lobby for
comprehensive immigration reform. This network is part of the National Hispanic
Coalition for Comprehensive Immigration Reform.

``When people started to speak about principles and values, who we are as
people, it shifted from an issue of border enforcement,'' said the Rev. Jon
Pedigo, pastor of St. Julie's Catholic Church in San Jose, who was at the Senate
gathering. ``It brought it back to its proper place.''

Still, the religious voice is not united. Many of the most conservative
religious groups, which have united with the Catholic Church on other issues
like abortion and gay marriage, are wary of immigration changes now under
consideration.

Among the country's largest and most influential conservative religious groups,
only the Christian Coalition has taken a strong public stand. It opposes the
current, more lenient legislation in Congress because, said Sadie Fields, state
chair of the Christian Coalition of Georgia, ``it rewards lawbreakers.''

``We're against illegal immigrants because we must uphold the rule of law,''
Fields said. ``We are a nation of law. Our biblical worldview mandates that we
be a people of law.''

But the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, a group that
represents millions of Latino evangelicals, advocates a path to legalization for
illegal immigrants, after appropriate penalties.

``The major evangelicals have stood by on this issue not because of racism or
xenophobia,'' said Samuel Rodriguez Jr. of Sacramento, president of the Hispanic
conference. ``I believe it's because they are just dead focused on law and
order.''

Rodriguez said ``the lack of support from our white, evangelical brothers and
sisters'' is a disappointment.

Not everyone is heaping praise on the religious community for its role on the
immigration debate.

Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a
group that advocates strict enforcement of U.S. immigration laws, said some
religious leaders have used the criminal penalties provision ``as protest
bait.''

``The idea that some nun would be locked up for giving some illegal immigrant a
cup of soup is ridiculous,'' Krikorian said. ``There's zero chance that the
ordinary activity of a church is going to result in any kind of prosecution.''

Whatever immigration bill emerges out of Congress in the coming weeks, the role
of religion in public-policy debate has reached ``a watershed,'' said Pedigo,
St. Julie's pastor.

``This isn't just about politics or labor or economics,'' Pedigo said. ``This is
about my grandmother, my uncle, this is about me.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

New GOP immigration bill aims to end Senate stalemate

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette and Maura Reynolds, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 378 words


Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist late Wednesday offered a new plan to overhaul
U.S. immigration laws that would require as many as 3 million illegal immigrants
to leave the country to apply for legal status and eventual citizenship.

Aides to the Tennessee Republican said a majority of GOP senators would support
the plan, ending a stalemate that threatened to prevent action on the issue. But
any bill that comes out of the Senate would have to be reconciled with a harsher
measure passed by the House.

The question of how to deal with the ``path to citizenship'' issue has been the
key point of disagreement among GOP lawmakers.

Senate Republicans had worked frantically for two days to build support for the
latest proposal. The plan would treat illegal immigrants who have been in the
United States for more than five years differently from more recent arrivals,
who would have to go back to their home countries and apply to return to the
United States.

Opponents insist that any provision giving legal status to the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the United States amounts to condoning illegal
immigration and defying U.S. laws. Proponents argue that foreign workers are
vital to the economy and must be offered some hope of a secure future.

Democrats have refused to consider changes in the bill under debate, which was
approved by the Republican-controlled Judiciary Committee. That proposal would
boost border enforcement, create a ``guest worker'' program with a path to legal
status and offer the possibility of citizenship to immigrants who met certain
requirements -- including learning English and paying back taxes.

Frist introduced the new measure and filed a second motion to end debate --
moves that would set up a vote on the Republican alternative no later than
Friday.

A vote to end debate on the Judiciary Committee bill, scheduled for today, will
fall short of the 60 needed to move that plan toward a final vote, the GOP
leadership said.

Democrats said Wednesday that they needed time to study the plan, but suggested
they would not move to block its consideration.

``That would be great if we could end this acrimonious week on a high note, and
we'll not know that until we study this amendment,'' said Senate Minority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Immigrants' protests will keep heat on issue during congressional break;
RALLIES, VIGILS WILL SHOW THAT DRACONIAN MEASURES WILL CREATE UNDESERVED AND
UNFAIR HARDSHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 478 words


Senators have fled Capitol Hill for another two-week vacation. But they won't be
able to run away from immigration reform. The issue will not go away, as
senators will discover today.

From San Jose to L.A., from Washington to Boston, tens of thousands of people
will take to the streets in prayer vigils and rallies. They'll be protesting the
callous anti-immigration bill that the House has passed and to insist the Senate
correct the measure by treating undocumented immigrants with respect. If protest
voices are loud and their numbers are great, senators will feel pressure to
finish the work they abandoned.

Late last week, senators came tantalizingly close to an encompassing solution
that had eluded them. A bipartisan coalition had agreed to a deal that would
have secured the nation's borders while creating a path to permanent residency
within six years for 90 percent of the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants.

But parliamentary bickering killed hope for a compromise. Democrats suspected,
with reason, that conservatives were out to savage the deal with a hundred
amendments. Republicans, with a half-dozen Democrats in tow, then refused to end
the process and bring the deal to a vote.

True immigration reform, with effective border enforcement, a new guest-worker
system and green cards for those who pay back taxes and can document a history
of work, will take years to work through. So a couple weeks' delay, with a
good-faith effort to refine complex details, may not be bad.

However, senators must not retreat from the key elements of the compromise. The
7 million illegal immigrants who have lived in the United States five or more
years would be eligible for citizenship if they had background checks, learned
English, paid fines and stayed employed. The 3 million who have lived here
between two and five years would have to apply for a temporary work visa at a
border crossing, but they would be eligible later for a green card. The
estimated 1-plus million who have been here since January 2004 -- an arbitrary
dividing point -- would have to return to their country of origin, although they
could apply for one of the 325,000 temporary work permits that would be granted
annually.

House Republicans and Senate obstructionists either are politically posturing or
are deluding themselves. It is neither practical or conscionable to declare 12
million illegal immigrants as felons and drive them across the border, as the
House bill would do. Most of these people have roots here; their children are
citizens; they pay taxes; some own homes.

Today's protests will help make that point. Except for students, who shouldn't
cut classes, the bigger the turnout the better. Immigrants and those who benefit
from their labor should march side-by-side to make a point: A balanced, humane
immigration policy will strengthen the economy and dignify the nation.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

Activists rally today for illegal immigrants;
MARCH IN SAN JOSE COULD DRAW 20,000

BYLINE: Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words


A march for immigrant rights planned for this afternoon in East San Jose could
draw as many as 20,000 people, leaders said Sunday.

Organized through churches, unions, Spanish-language media and word of mouth,
the 3 p.m. rally and march is intended to keep the spotlight on issues that
could affect the roughly 12 million illegal immigrants in the country. As
immigration reform legislation stalls in Congress, local organizers say it's
important for immigrants and their supporters to keep making their voices heard.

``We want to show that all around the United States are immigrants,'' said
Martha Campos, one of the organizers and a director with the Services,
Immigration Rights and Education Network in San Jose.

Today is being called the National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice by a
loose coalition of civil rights groups, labor unions, student organizations and
others that has planned more than 100 rallies across the country. In the Bay
Area, events are also planned in Berkeley, Oakland and San Francisco. One event
in Washington, D.C., is expected to draw as many as 200,000 protesters.

``It is the largest national mobilization of immigrants in the history of this
country,'' said Juan Carlos Ruiz, coordinator of the National Capital
Immigration Coalition, the umbrella group organizing the event in Washington.
``The goal is to show Congress and the media and the White House that we can
organize ourselves, because we have not been very well-organized in the past.''

Organizers expect the total turnout across the country to approach 2 million,
Ruiz said.

Hundreds of thousands of protesters gathered Sunday in San Diego and in states
including Texas, Alabama, Utah, New Mexico and Minnesota.

The latest wave of protests was launched largely in response to strict
legislation that passed the House of Representatives in December. It would make
being in the country illegally a felony and also called for construction of a
700-mile fence along the Mexican border and stiff new fines for employers who
hire illegal immigrants.

A Senate bill also would have tightened border security. But it included other
provisions that would have put millions of illegal immigrants on the path to
eventual citizenship if they paid fines and met certain conditions.

A deal on a compromise bill unraveled late last week.

In San Jose, 5,000 immigrants and their supporters rallied March 26, and
thousands of Bay Area students walked out of classes and staged protests the
next day. Los Angeles has been a hub of activity, with 500,000 people attending
one rally in March.

The rallies have also drawn counterprotesters. At one event Sunday in Salt Lake
City, Jerry Owens, 59, a Navy veteran from Midway wearing a Minuteman T-shirt
and camouflage pants, held a ``Don't Tread on Me'' flag.

``It's really sad because these people are really saying it's OK to be illegal
aliens,'' he said. ``What Americans are saying is `Yes, come here. But come here
legally.' And I think that's the big problem.''

Even with the outcome of the legislation uncertain, local organizer Salvador
Bustamante said the rallies continue to focus on celebrating immigrants and
advocating for laws that help illegal immigrants work toward citizenship.

``We're looking for legislation that provides undocumented immigrants with a
path to legalize their status, an immigration reform that assures family unity
and that provides for humane border control,'' said Bustamante, regional vice
president of Service Employees International Union Local 1877. ``We want
Congress to honor our contribution.''

Today's march in San Jose -- with an afternoon start time partly designed to
encourage students to stay in class -- will begin at Story and King roads with
speeches from a variety of religious leaders and continue along Alum Rock Avenue
to City Hall.

``We're anticipating a peaceful demonstration,'' said spokesman Sgt. Nick Muyo
of the San Jose Police Department. He said police would be monitoring the march
but could not estimate how many officers might be on the streets.

Nationwide, hosts of Spanish-language radio stations have been credited with
spurring listeners to action. In the Bay Area, television stations have hosted
call-in shows about the proposed immigration legislation, Campos said. Radio
stations -- both independent and corporate-owned -- have been reading
public-service announcements about the rallies. Some deejays have spoken about
the issue and encouraged listeners to attend the protests.

``That's been the biggest influencing factor,'' said Marcos Gutierrez, a San
Francisco radio producer and professor who has studied Spanish-language media.
He said independent stations and programs took the lead on the issue, pressing
other stations to join in the call to action.

``When you see this amount of people walking out, you have to pay attention,''
he said.

The Los Angeles Times and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Contact Kimra McPherson at kmcpherson@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5928.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Santa Clara County supervisors pass immigration resolution

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 456 words


A day after some 25,000 people marched for immigrants' rights in downtown San
Jose, the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors narrowly passed a resolution
that opposes criminalizing undocumented immigrants and those who help them.
Instead, the board adopted a resolution that supports legalization for
immigrants who have lived in the United States for five years or more.

``I am honored to introduce this resolution,'' Supervisor Pete McHugh said
today.

McHugh noted that immigrants built Santa Clara County and that the county values
all its residents regardless of documentation.

The resolution, which retained the support of three of the five-member board,
comes more than three months after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R.
4437, which proposes classifying convicted illegal immigrants as felons and
criminalizing those who knowingly assist undocumented immigrants to live or stay
in the United States.

The U.S. Senate, however, shot down that proposal and late last week presented
another hotly contested bill, the fate of which remains in limbo as Senators
embarked on a two-week break Monday. That bill, which has retained the support
of immigrants and labor leaders, offers a path to citizenship for millions of
illegal immigrants and creates a guest worker program. Both bills focus on
strengthening border control, though the House bill, with its scheme to build
hundreds of miles of fence between the Mexico-U.S. border, is deemed far more
restrictive.

At today's meeting, supervisors McHugh, Jim Beall and Liz Kniss voted in favor
of the resolution, while Supervisor Don Gage opposed. Supervisor Blanca
Alvarado, who placed the resolution on the board agenda, was absent.

Gage said he voted against the resolution because it hadn't gone through the
proper procedures before appearing on the board's agenda, and not because he's
anti-immigration.

``We're already objecting to something that we haven't seen the final product
on,'' he said.

Kniss said she supported the resolution ``in concept,'' but called for
additional deliberations.

``I think this is just the kind of issue we need to refer to the Legislative
Commission,'' she said.

Beall seconded Kniss' concern, saying the county's commissions need to properly
analyze each resolution before placing it on the board's agenda, and that from
now on there would be no rushed issues.

McHugh disagreed, saying he didn't think anyone inside the board chambers was
unaware of the immigration debate taking place throughout the country.

``I think it's important that we speak up . . . and go on the record,'' he said.

Copyright © 2006 by Bay City News, Inc. -- republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday

Bigotry behind immigration bill

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 1410 words


L.A. Chung's column (Page 1B, April 12) shows that narrow-minded intolerance is
an affliction suffered by all people, most of whom occupy the polar opposites of
issues like immigration reform. By her own admission, Chung becomes a bigot when
she hears an emotional trigger like ``illegals.''

She raises an excellent point about reducing people to an adjective. Indeed, an
act doesn't necessarily define the person, but ongoing acts do. A good person
could commit a criminal act and not necessarily be a criminal. But if he
continues his criminal acts, then his actions begin to define him. An
``illegal'' knows he or she is an illegal. The stalled Senate bill was
attempting to create a pathway to changing that reality. Bigotry kept that from
happening and the same intolerance is the stuff of which the House bill is made.
Compromise is the casualty in this stalemate.

Art HondaSan Jose

One thing missing at all those marches

So the illegals marched and the politicians cried. It just shows the
intelligence of our elected officials. They are worried about votes. Surprise,
elected officials: Illegals can't vote.

I would have liked it if the immigration officials had been on the edge of the
crowds checking green cards and shoving the illegals into buses headed back to
where they illegally emigrated from.

Cliff BabcockBenicia

Where's other side of immigration story?

Your news and opinion writers, news sources, headline writers, news management,
and editorial writers all have given us mainly the illegal immigrants' side of
the illegal-immigration stories. You are the only major print medium serving
Silicon Valley. When will we get both sides of the illegal-immigration issue, or
do we need a new newspaper that is not proudly and admittedly slanted to the
left and not the center? In this economically and culturally important valley
with its diverse thoughts, we need both sides of the story. Is this too much to
ask of the paper that says it is the best newspaper in California? Or, are you
sending us to the Internet for the full story?

Jack MallorySaratoga

Mission accomplished for Saddam and Bush

For a long time, President Bush and Saddam Hussein were intent on destroying
each other. Considering the turmoil in Iraq, Saddam's trial and Bush's
all-time-low approval rating, I'd say both men have accomplished their goal.

Dale AllisonSunnyvale

Shameful passing of the buck by Rice

Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's recent statement that ``we made the right
strategic decisions but made thousands of tactical errors'' in Iraq is an
absolute outrage. She is trying to pass the blame for the mess in Iraq from our
incompetent civilian leadership to our brave military. Shame on her.

Joseph RizzutoLos Gatos

Executing Moussaoui would martyr him

Zacarias Moussaoui should not be executed. A jury has convicted him, and he may
indeed be a guilty conspirator in the plot that ended in the terror attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001. His execution, though, would provide those men and women who
would engage in future acts of terror with yet another cause of action against
the United States: revenge for a martyred brother. Imprisoning him for life may
cost us many dollars, but executing him may cost us many lives.

Jacques MaitreSan Jose

Enough proof by now to act on emissions

Several writers have recently questioned whether there is proof that greenhouse
gases produced by humans contribute to global warming. There may not yet be any
definitive proof as to how much they contribute, but we do have proof that
global warming is going on. We can't hurt matters if we take steps to reduce
what we produce through burning petroleum, and if nothing else we would postpone
the day that is coming soon when we will have exhausted the world's supply of
petroleum. Those who doubt global warming should look at what is happening to
the Arctic winter ice pack, the Greenland glaciers and the Antarctic ice shelf.

Irwin OttenbergSoquel

Plenty of evidence we're altering planet

Steve Rhodes has written (Letters, April 12) to deny that we are altering the
planet's climate with carbon dioxide pollution. His reiteration of oil-company
obfuscations is a poor strategy. For years tobacco companies denied the link
between smoking and cancer, funneling millions of dollars into pseudoscience to
confuse and attempt to create doubt. They successfully delayed action to avert
the deaths of millions to line their pockets. Oil companies, especially
ExxonMobil, have been doing that for years on global warming. Who are you going
to believe? Oil-company-funded mouthpieces or scientists documenting the changes
in the planet? The evidence is now so overwhelming that even some oil companies
like Shell and BP are acknowledging that, yes, we are changing the planet.

Rafael ReyesSan Mateo

Massachusetts law lousy for California

The Mercury News misses the mark (Editorial, April 10) in failing to point out
the obvious shortcoming in the Massachusetts health insurance plan: It fails
utterly to address the cost side of the health care equation. The Massachusetts
law mandates that all citizens of that state be insured. This idea is even more
dismal than George Bush's health savings accounts, insofar as it mandates that
individuals and the state shell out big bucks for one of the most basic human
rights and necessities. Big Brother will now command you to buy insurance, and
he alone will decide whether you can afford it. The big, for-profit health
insurers will be laughing all the way to the bank, and the citizens of
Massachusetts will be picking up the tab. To impose such a travesty in any form
is a lousy idea for California.

John K. GreenPetaluma

City attorney failed in advice to council

Columnist Scott Herhold is right on in calling for the resignation of San Jose
City Attorney Rick Doyle (Page 1B, April 13). The most valuable characteristic
of a city attorney is one who brings independent and proper advice to the
council. In the recent city vs. county dispute, it seems to me that the San Jose
city attorney filed a legal action to help the council achieve a political
objective without thoughtful legal analysis and risk assessment. Strong
independent legal advice was needed to advise against litigation. It was readily
foreseeable that courts would easily see through the narrow downtown interests
of the city motivating the lawsuit.

Tom SchneckSan Jose

Advisory vote needed on county concert hall

Now that the judges and lawyers have cleared the way for the concert hall at the
Santa Clara County fairgrounds, it's time for the voters to have their say in
the matter.

The county should place an advisory measure on the ballot in November to
determine voter interest in the project. I doubt that they will do so, because
they probably already know what the results would be of such a vote.

Kent AndersonSan Jose

Fitting time to pray for peace, and to act

Thank you for the touching, timely story of Joe and Remy Pessah and their exodus
from Egypt in the 1970s (Page 1A, April 12). Their story, and those of nearly 1
million other Jews beaten, tortured and expelled from their home countries in
the Middle East needs to be told. At this time of Passover and Easter, let us
remember those who have been persecuted and not just pray for peace, but take
action for it.

Bob ZeidmanCupertino

Saratoga overlooks the benefits of trees

Carolyn Straub and Steve McHenry wrote that ``trees make life worthwhile''
(Letters, April 7). I only wish the Saratoga City Council realized the
importance of trees before they move forward in committing yet another park to
flat grass. The city has no additional space to add to its urban forest, yet it
seems to value grass over the benefits of trees. Why would the minimum-service
city of Saratoga that cut the police force add flat turf? San Jose is cutting
park maintenance costs by replacing turf with drought-resistant plants. Why
choose flat grass over beautiful mature oaks, coastal redwoods and California
sycamores?

Mary and Brian RobertsonSaratoga

Suburban NIMBY-ism promotes sprawl

In the article ``Residents cry out for retail'' (Page 1B, April 13), Palo Alto
resident Karen Kalinsky demanded a ```big supermarket'' to ``an enthusiastic
round of applause'' from a meeting of local residents gathered to oppose a new
housing development. This sort of soft-headed suburban NIMBY-ism to additional
in-fill housing is what will condemn the Bay Area to grow ever further outward
until it resembles the inhuman sprawl of Los Angeles.

Theodore WongMountain View

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

Bush should join immigration talks;
PRESIDENT'S DIRECT PARTICIPATION IN NEGOTIATIONS MAY BE ONLY WAY TO BREAK
CONGRESSIONAL DEADLOCK

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 455 words


President Bush went to Orange County, birthplace of the Minuteman Project and
Proposition 187, on Monday to call for immigration reforms that probably didn't
sit well with many in the audience.

Speaking in Irvine, Bush reminded those advocating the massive deportation of
the nation's 12 million illegal immigrants that ``one thing we can't lose sight
of is that we are talking about human beings, decent human beings.'' His
comments brought welcome clarity regarding his position; he clearly favors the
bipartisan bill now stalled in the Senate.

But if Bush is to make a difference in breaking the stalemate on Capitol Hill,
he will have to go beyond speeches to direct involvement in negotiations. He
will have to confront conservatives who favor only deporting immigrants and
building a 700-mile border wall -- what Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger aptly
dismissed over the weekend as ``going back to the Stone Ages.''

Bush has been purposely ambiguous until now for fear of alienating the
Republican right. He favors granting immigrants temporary work permits for
unskilled jobs but opposes what he calls amnesty or ``automatic citizenship''
for illegal immigrants here now.

But on Monday, Bush created some daylight for compromise. He called the
comprehensive Senate bill an ``interesting approach.'' The bill, co-sponsored by
Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., would grant permanent
residency to undocumented immigrants who have been in the country five years or
longer, provided they stayed employed, paid a fine and agreed to a background
check. Those here fewer than five years would have to go through more hoops or
even return to their home countries and apply for a temporary visa. On Monday,
Bush's press secretary, Scott McClellan, called the bill a ``good, bipartisan
approach.''

Bush has preferred not to become involved directly in congressional bargaining,
and there's no question that the negotiations will be messy. Even if he can coax
a bill out of the Senate, the president would then face a huge divide between
the House Republican and Senate versions.

But with the temperature of the debate rising and demonstrators taking to the
streets, Bush recognizes that the public wants action and that Republicans risk
looking like obstructionists.

Democrats, though, are not invulnerable to criticism. The Senate bill became
stuck, in part, because Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada refused to allow
amendments -- a position he is backing away from. And the party is not in lock
step. On Sunday, Sen. Hillary Clinton of New York called for a phased-in
approach at odds with McCain-Kennedy: securing the borders first followed a year
or two later by legalizing immigrants.

Bush has his work cut out for him.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Opponents of illegal immigration sound off;
THEIR MESSAGE: JUST FOLLOW THE LAW

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 1121 words


Watching massive marches across the country calling for a path to legalization
for undocumented immigrants, Roberta Allen felt her anger slowly rising.

``They have a lot of gall coming here and demanding rights that aren't theirs to
have,'' said Allen, 62, a San Jose small business owner. ``I've no problem with
legal immigrants. It's illegal aliens I have a problem with.''

Allen refers to her point of view as ``the other side'' in the debate over
immigration reform. But after ceding the spotlight in recent days and weeks to
immigrants' supporters, she and some of her fellow opponents are looking to a
series of counter demonstrations to show their point of view.

These organizers say they represent the American mainstream, and polls suggest
that in at least some of their arguments, they do. Most of those questioned in
several surveys over the last month say it should be a crime to enter the United
States and stay illegally. And 81 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll last
month agreed with one of the central tenets of the opposition: that illegal
immigration is ``out of control.''

But those same surveys also show that strong majorities of Americans favor
allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the United States if they meet certain
requirements. That's a place where at least the most vocal opponents beg to
differ.

Locally, they hope to make that point with ``National Anti-illegal Alien Protest
Rally Days'' at Central Park in Santa Clara on Friday and Saturday. The date was
chosen deliberately to coincide with Cinco de Mayo -- a Latino celebration.
Elsewhere, the Minuteman Project, a group of volunteers who patrol the
U.S.-Mexico border, plan to launch a 12-city caravan tour today, heading to
Washington, D.C., for a May 12 rally.

Opponents are also active on the Internet, with a number of newly created Web
sites. Although some of those sites veer toward racism, most make a simple,
law-and-order argument. America's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, they
say, are lawbreakers who should not be rewarded with a path to citizenship, but
instead should be deported.

Their concerns are many. Some call illegal immigrants a burden on schools and
hospitals. Others say they inordinately contribute to crime, including high
membership in prison and street gangs. Still others worry that illegal
immigrants take jobs away from, and lower the wages of, natives and legal
immigrants.

Some of the most extreme views can be seen on Web sites and heard on talk radio,
where undocumented immigrants are described as bringing diseases across the
border and threatening American culture by refusing to assimilate and living in
their own enclaves.

Some of these worries are widely shared. Last week's flap over a pop recording
of the National Anthem in Spanish -- which included President George Bush,
generally considered a moderate on immigration issues, among its detractors --
was a potent example.

Kimberly Vigneault, 40, is a key organizer behind the upcoming protests that so
far have coordinators in 15 states including California. A personal story that
she tells on her Web site, grantprotest.com, offers an emotional counterpoint to
popular tales of the anguish of illegal immigrants, and has resonated with many
other activists.

Vigneault says she was infected with tuberculosis by an undocumented immigrant
in a Riverside County Hospital. Hospital officials later acknowledged that an
infected employee may indeed have exposed hundreds of patients to disease,
although they never confirmed the employee was an illegal immigrant.

The experience energized Vigneault, after years in which she had worried about
the the growing numbers of ``illegals in my daughter's school'' who don't speak
English, and the uninsured ones who use public medical services.

A month ago, she launched her movement with a Web site that provides a gateway
to a number of other opposition Web sites, including the site of the Minuteman
Project. The range of the Internet quickly helped her forge connections with
like-minded people elsewhere.

Still, Vigneault strives to keep a measured tone. ``I just hope that everybody
keeps a cool head during our protest,'' Vigneault said. ``I want people to know
of the other side of this issue, that people aren't willing to be pushed over.''

Amid marches and boycotts aimed at demonstrating immigrants' contribution to
America's economy, many opponents of illegal immigration hope to make a contrary
point: That many of these undocumented workers are a burden on society.

They cite studies of the impact of illegal immigrants on U.S. hospital emergency
rooms and social service programs -- studies that suggest these immigrants cost
more in government services than they pay in taxes, especially if you figure in
the cost of public schools.

However, some of those same studies note that this imbalance is typical of all
low-income families, regardless of their immigration status. ``In all of this,''
said Reshma Shamasunder, director of the California Immigrant Welfare
Collaborative, ``immigrants keep getting scapegoated.''

But even some who have great sympathy for immigrants worry about the impact of
illegal immigration.

``The protests were wrong,'' said Nelson De Sousa, 35, of San Jose, a son of
Portuguese immigrants who owns a small house-cleaning business. ``There's a
right way to do things, and they've come here illegally. They're not respecting
what our country's values are, what we're about.''

De Sousa said he has hired Latino immigrants but only after checking their
driver's licenses. He believes in better regulation of employers when they hire
immigrants.

Randy Breunling, 50, a software and data engineer in Sunnyvale, said the waving
of Mexican flags at the protests provoked ``some anger and frustration.''

``I'm proud of what America stands for, even though we have problems,'' he said.
``If they're out there protesting for rights they don't have, why are they
flying the Mexican flag? What message does that give me as an American?''

Breunling says it isn't feasible for the government to round up and deport
nearly 12 million people, ``but it wouldn't hurt if we took some action to send
some back. Just as it wouldn't hurt to take action against employers here who
employ them.''

Pamela Stone of San Jose, a retired administrative assistant in her 60s, said
she will attend the opposition rally.

``I didn't like amnesty when we gave it in 1986,'' she said, referring to
20-year old immigration reforms that led to legalization of three million
illegal immigrants. ``The Senate then promised they'd never do this again. All
this does is bring more of them in and make America look like an idiot.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 15, 2006 Monday

Spotlight on border as reform talk stirs;
BUSH, CONGRESS TO LAY OUT ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION IDEAS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 202 words


Propelled by emotional rallies and political maneuvering, the debate about
illegal immigration reform this week turns to the crux of the matter: What,
exactly, should be done?

Beginning today, President Bush, both houses of Congress and advocacy groups
will present ideas and responses about practical matters of illegal immigration.
The final decisions will affect the lives of an estimated 11 million illegal
immigrants -- and millions more in Mexico eager to enter the country.

Here's what happens next:

The Senate today begins discussing what would be the most sweeping immigration
legislation in 20 years. The debate is expected to last two weeks, and must be
reconciled somehow with a dramatically different House bill that would
criminalize illegal immigrants.

President Bush will give a nationally televised speech at 5 p.m. today. Along
with a guest-worker program similar to the Senate proposal, he is expected to
call for thousands of National Guard troops to help enforce the Mexico border as
a stopgap measure.

A new coalition of immigration groups, called the We Are America Alliance, is
lobbying on a national level to reach its goal of legal residency for many of
the nation's undocumented workers.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday

Resolution urges Congress, Bush to pass `real immigration reform';
REPUBLICANS RESIST NON-BINDING ACTION

BYLINE: Steven Harmon, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575 words


The Immigrant Day crowd Monday barely filled the several dozen seats at the west
steps of the Capitol, but state Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez insists momentum
hasn't been lost since the boycott rallies earlier this month drew more than 1
million protesters.

Núñez, a Los Angeles Democrat, Monday shepherded a joint resolution urging
President Bush and Congress to reject immigration reform that ``criminalizes''
illegal immigrants, focuses solely on border-control and fails to ``recognize
our common humanity and the values of our nation.''

The resolution, approved on a party-line 43-27 vote, is not binding, but Núñez
said it sends a message ``that California says once and for all it is time to
bring real immigration reform to solve this country's broken immigration
system.''

Republicans complained that Democrats were exploiting emotions.

``I don't think it'll have any impact except to inflame the rhetoric of this
debate,'' said Assemblyman Ray Haynes, a Temecula Republican who failed in his
attempt to add wording to the resolution that would have spelled out the
difference between legal and illegal immigrants; put more emphasis on
enforcement of immigration laws; and mentioned amnesty as a flawed concept.

``This was to stir emotions and further spin this thing out of control.''

Immigrant Day has been held at the Capitol for several years running -- a day
where immigration advocates stage rallies and lobby legislators.

Monday's rally was intended to call attention to a number of legislative
measures and budget issues facing the state Legislature, including a bill to
help the 2.7 million immigrants who are eligible to become naturalized, to
create overtime for household workers and provide access to social services for
victims of human trafficking.

At the rally, Núñez called on Latinos to wield political power in the same way
they responded a decade earlier after the state approved Proposition 187, the
initiative that sought to deny social services, health care and public education
to illegal immigrants and their children -- later overturned in court.

``As a consequence of that, the numbers of naturalized immigrants grew by almost
1,000 percent and thus voter participation among Latinos grew significantly as
well,'' Núñez said after the rally, organized by the Sacramento-based California
Immigrant Welfare Collaborative. ``I think this is going to happen with this
issue, undoubtedly.''

The U.S. Senate began work on immigration reform legislation Monday, hopeful of
producing a measure before Memorial Day with a focus on tightening borders but
also providing a path to citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented
workers.

The House earlier passed a tougher immigration bill that rejects the path to
citizenship, focusing on tightening security at the U.S. border and imposing
sanctions on employers who hire illegal immigrants. That legislation prompted a
national day of boycotts on May 1.

Bush reignited passions last week when he announced a plan to send 6,000
National Guard members to the U.S.-Mexico border, drawing Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger into the dispute. Schwarzenegger has said he dislikes the idea in
principle, but is willing to approve using the Guard temporarily.

Núñez said he has been talking regularly with the governor and has been
``encouraged'' that Schwarzenegger ``hasn't agreed that to deploy the National
Guard is a good thing.''

Contact Steven Harmon at sharmon@cctimes.com or (916) 441-2101.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 25, 2006 Thursday

Senate immigration coalition clings together; vote today

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words


The Senate moved to the verge of passing landmark immigration legislation
Wednesday, scheduling a final vote for today on a bill that would tighten the
borders while allowing millions of illegal immigrants to stay in the country,
and permitting new guest workers to come and go.

But the mixture of get-tough and be-kind measures that has made Senate approval
possible could prove the biggest obstacle to reaching an accord with the House,
where conservatives are determined to secure the borders before tackling other
matters. Senate leaders said their coalition is fragile, and it may be
hard-pressed to survive changes that House members signal they will demand this
summer.

``There are plenty of things wrong with this bill, but there are plenty of
things right with it,'' Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said Wednesday, acknowledging
the hodgepodge of compromises built into the Senate measure that leaves
virtually no one enthusiastic about it without reservation.

The Senate voted 73-25 to prevent endless debate on the legislation, setting up
a final vote today. Proponents called Wednesday's ``cloture'' vote a bipartisan
victory and a momentum-builder that virtually ensures passage of the bill today.
But some of the measure's harshest critics voted for cloture, suggesting the
final margin may be closer.

``We fought off a number of very cleverly crafted amendments that would have
basically destroyed the bill,'' said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., a leader of the
Senate effort. But several battles over amendments, from the political left and
right, involved close votes in recent days, underscoring the tenuous nature of
what Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has called ``the fragile, delicate coalition
that we have for this bill.''

Anticipating the clash with the House, White House political adviser Karl Rove
met privately with House Republicans on Wednesday, urging them to move closer to
the Senate position, which President Bush embraces. He got a cold reception,
said people who attended. In particular, they said, Rep. John Carter, R-Texas,
testily told Rove that he was underestimating Americans' hostility to the notion
of amnesty for illegal immigrants, especially without proof that tougher border
measures are taking effect. Rep. Sue Kelly, R-N.Y., also told Rove that the
president's position was a tough sell in her district, the sources said.

The House bill, passed in December, deals only with border and workplace
enforcement matters. The Senate bill addresses such matters, calling for a
370-mile fence along the Mexican border, 6,000 National Guard soldiers to
support border agents, aerial surveillance, road construction to aid border
patrols and other items.

But the Senate bill also calls for a guest-worker program and a three-tier
system for dealing with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the
country. Those here five years or longer would be allowed to stay and apply for
citizenship, provided they pay back taxes, learn English and have no serious
criminal records. Those here two to five years would eventually have to return
to a point of entry in Mexico or Canada and apply for a ``green card,'' which
could allow their immediate return. The roughly 2 million immigrants who have
been in the United States illegally for less than two years would be ordered
home.

Even its proponents privately agree that the three-tier plan is an ungainly
compromise that resulted from long negotiations designed to build and hold a
centrist coalition in the Senate. The ``touchback'' requirement for the middle
category has especially drawn questions about its usefulness. Defenders say it
will force immigrants to undergo background checks and is symbolically important
to lawmakers who want immigrants to enter the country under legal circumstances.

What senators are gingerly assembling is unacceptable to a significant number of
House Republicans, several lawmakers said.

``The majority of the people that I know, I don't think we are going to bend at
all on this amnesty that is known as a `pathway to citizenship,' '' Rep. Walter
B. Jones Jr., R-N.C., said in an interview. If Bush had cracked down on border
security four years ago, he said, the House might be considering the Senate's
broader measures.

Jones and others predict that House negotiators will insist on significant
changes to the Senate version in the conference committee expected to begin work
in June. But such changes could fracture the Senate's coalition, making passage
of a final compromise difficult or impossible.

``I can't be for the bill without the balance it has now,'' Sen. Joe Biden,
D-Del., said Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

Mexico's Fox visits Sacramento

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 834 words


Hours after the U.S. Senate approved an immigration policy that may eventually
provide citizenship to more than 11 million undocumented immigrants, Mexican
President Vicente Fox on Thursday told the California Legislature that such a
``monumental step forward'' will benefit both nations.

``It is a moment that millions of families have been hoping for,'' Fox said in
the Assembly chambers. ``This is the moment that millions of people have been
working for.''

He added: ``We are your partners in security against terrorism. We are your
allies in the war against drugs and crime. We are your partners in the drive for
economic prosperity. Let us work together as neighbors, as friends, as
partners.''

Fox, who has been in office 5 1/2 years of a six-year term, has been pushing for
reform since even before his election, which broke the ruling party's 71-year
grip on the executive office. President Bush and Fox were scheduled to address a
reform plan in late 2001, but the meeting was postponed because of the terrorist
strikes.

After his speech Thursday, Fox, who was making his third trip to California, met
privately with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who vowed to visit Mexico on a trade
mission.

Schwarzenegger also told Fox he supports temporarily sending National Guard
troops to the border, but opposes ``militarizing'' it. Fox said he would support
legislation to make it tougher to build tunnels under the border.

``Mexico and California are true partners,'' Schwarzenegger said after their
10-minute meeting, ``and we will work through these difficult moments.''

Fox used much of his 22-minute speech before the Legislature to laud his
administration's policies on education, employment and the economy that he says
have drastically improved living conditions in Mexico -- and will eventually
persuade Mexicans to slow immigration.

``Today,'' he said, ``we live in a completely different Mexico than we did just
six years ago.''

But his assessment is debated by political analysts who suggest that immigration
from Mexico would have eased significantly if the nation were improving as much
as Fox claims.

``The transformation of Mexico is remarkable,'' said Alberto Diaz-Cayeros, a
Stanford University assistant professor of political science and an expert on
Mexico, ``but that started in the 1990s; it's not something that could be
attributed to this administration.''

Fox's jet landed Thursday afternoon at Sacramento International Airport, where
he and his wife, Martha Sahagún, were greeted by Schwarzenegger and first lady
Maria Shriver.

Fox and Schwarzenegger bantered for the cameras, before Fox spoke at length with
the Mexican press and mingled momentarily with schoolchildren who waved Mexican,
Californian and U.S. flags.

In the Capitol, Fox was introduced by a beaming Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez,
D-Los Angeles, and received a standing ovation from almost every legislator.

Fox, speaking in English, pledged a stronger relationship between Mexico and
California, emphasizing the commonalities that benefit both governments.

He received enthusiastic applause from Republicans when he vowed to respect the
United States' right to ``enforce its laws and protect its borders and its
citizens.''

Fox, though, said he doesn't favor border walls, an idea backed by many
conservative lawmakers.

``Mexico believes that it will take more than just enforcement or building walls
to truly solve the challenges posed by the migration phenomenon,'' he said,
``and that a comprehensive reform is in the interest of both nations.''

Fox added: ``Mexico wants to be part of this solution, not part of the
problem.''

Lawmakers on both extremes of the immigration debate used Fox's visit to promote
their political agendas.

Some Republicans, including Assemblyman Todd Spitzer, R-Orange, attended the
joint session wearing yellow buttons with the phrase ``No mas,''meaning ``No
more.''

Spitzer said that if Mexico implemented the policies Fox mentioned, illegal
immigration could come to a halt. ``He indicated that they have 100,000 jobs
available to Mexican citizens they can't fill, because of a lack of education,''
Spitzer said. ``Unless and until he fixes the education system and starts
producing an educated citizenry, you will never have an end to illegal
immigration.''

Sen. Gil Cedillo, who met privately with Fox, briefed the president on his
measure to allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver's licenses.

``I told him that there were issues here that were important to the state that
the governor could not simply push off on Washington.''

Fox came to Sacramento near the end of a four-day tour that took him to Utah and
Washington state where he also pushed for immigration reform.

Today, he is scheduled to visit the California Chamber of Commerce and then with
representatives of TechaBA, a technology business accelerator belonging to the
Mexican government.

Steve Harmon of the Mercury News Sacramento Bureau contributed to this report.
Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

Hiring of illegal migrants is targeted;
ADMINISTRATION TO TIGHTEN RULES ON ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 499 words


With Congress still deadlocked over immigration reform, the Bush administration
plans to announce new regulations today in a move to strengthen enforcement
efforts designed to prevent the hiring of illegal immigrants.

The new rules target the way companies deal with employees and their records.
Lackluster implementation of laws on illegal hiring contributed to the failure
of earlier immigration overhauls and, administration officials say, continues to
undermine attempts to control illegal immigration.

President Bush has repeatedly urged Congress to create a worker verification
system that is effective but easy for employers to use.

Both the Senate and House bills propose sweeping changes in work-site
enforcement, including hefty fines and criminal penalties for employers who hire
illegal workers.

The administration's new regulations take a more detailed approach, aiming to
simplify procedures for employers and to close loopholes exploited by those who
hire illegally. As federal regulations, they do not require passage by Congress.

``Anything we can do using our own existing authority, we ought to do,''
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said in an interview with the Los
Angeles Times. ``What we can't do, we should work with Congress to accomplish.''

One rule would target employers who receive notice from the Social Security
Administration that an employee's Social Security data does not match
information on record. It would require companies to investigate or face
potential penalties.

Of the 250 million wage reports the administration receives each year, as many
as 10 percent include names of employees that do not match their numbers. In
many cases, the agency sends companies a letter alerting them to the mismatch,
but there is no penalty if they fail to investigate.

Under the new rule, employers who follow up on letters would be protected from
court action. If they do not and their workers turn out to be illegal, their
failure to act will be considered ``evidence that can be used against them,''
Chertoff said. ``Basically, there are no excuses anymore.''

Business groups say some companies do not take action because the letters are
confusing. The letters ask companies to clear up the discrepancy, ``but in that
letter, as well, is an admonishment against taking any action against the
employee based on the letter,'' said John Gay, a senior vice president of the
National Restaurant Association.

The new rule would formally require employers to make sure there is no paperwork
error and then contact the employee. If the discrepancy remains, they would be
expected to terminate employment, said Department of Homeland Security official
Russ Knocke.

A second regulation would allow employers to retain employment records in
electronic form, a step that Laura Reiff of the Essential Worker Immigration
Coalition said was welcome.

For companies with thousands of employees or a high turnover, the cost and
storage space that paper records require can be a burden.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 23, 2006 Friday

Illegal-immigration enforcement appears designed for political gain

BYLINE: Ed Morales

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 477 words


On the immigration issue, the Bush administration is letting employers off easy.
It has seized on the issue to try to win political points but has done little to
demonstrate it can be taken seriously.

In the four years after President Bush first took office, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service scaled back its enforcement efforts 95 percent, according
to a recent article in the Washington Post. By 2003, the number of employers
prosecuted dropped from 182 to four.

The absorption of the agency by the Department of Homeland Security is partly to
blame, because that larger agency has focused most of its resources on fighting
terrorism.

But pressures from employer lobbies, immigrant rights advocates and members of
Congress themselves have led to decreased enforcement.

Now, according to a recent New York Times report, most undocumented immigrants
work for mainstream companies, are paid regularly in the form of payroll checks
and receive W-2 forms in January like typical U.S. citizens.

An underground market exists so that undocumented workers can receive fake
``green cards'' and Social Security numbers, which are kept on file by the
employer and used as the basis for their legitimate employment status.

Enforcement is difficult in these cases because the law states that employers
must ``knowingly'' employ an illegal immigrant. But when these employers are in
possession of plausible documents, it is difficult to build a case against them.

As the pro-immigrants' rights marches reached their peak in the spring,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (the successor to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service) staged a well-publicized raid of a Houston-based pallet
company, as well as successfully fining Wal-Mart and some of its subcontractors.
The administration also plans to accelerate efforts to set up a system to verify
the eligibility of workers so that employers can be held accountable.

But these efforts seem to be designed for political gain in an atmosphere when
many Americans are scapegoating undocumented workers.

Those who propose to deport or criminalize them are ignoring the pro-business
growth climate that has made them acceptable over the past several years.

They also fail to recognize that large corporations are profiting off the backs
of undocumented immigrants who are working for low wages and no benefits.

The United States should come to grips with its double standard. It is immoral
to criminalize immigrants who have paid a heavy price in the form of hard work
under often-unfair labor conditions and practices.

These workers should be allowed to apply for citizenship, have the right to
unionize and find their rightful place in a country that has been
all-too-willing to make them invisible when it was convenient.

ED MORALES is the author of ``Living in Spanglish.'' He wrote this article for
the Progressive Media Project.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 13, 2006 Thursday

Activists aim to bring Asians into debate;
WIDER CONSTITUENCY IS SOUGHT ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION CHANGES

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 649 words


There are as many as 180,000 undocumented Asians in the Bay Area, but the recent
national debate about illegal immigration feels as if it's strictly a Latino
issue, some legal advocates said.

``Immigration reform is not just a Latino issue,'' said Christopher Punongbayan,
advocacy director for Filipinos for Affirmative Action, an Oakland civil rights
group. ``There is still work that needs to be done in our communities, to let
people know that these issues affect us and that we have influence over public
policy decisions.''

Hoping to engage more Asians in the public immigration discourse, a panel of
lawyers and community leaders today will discuss how reform proposals now being
considered by Congress and the Senate could also affect Asian immigrants in the
United States. The panel discussion, part of a local monthly series, will be
held at the United Way Building in San Jose.

``It's clearly an issue that has local and national impact,'' said Joren Lyons,
a staff attorney for the Asian Law Caucus, a legal advocacy group in San
Francisco. Lyons will also be on the panel.

``We want to dispel the myth that what's going on in Washington is all about
Latinos,'' Lyons said. ``There are undocumented Asians. They're out there. We
want people to recognize that the community has a stake in this.''

The Pew Hispanic Center in Washington, D.C., has estimated there are 1.5 million
undocumented Asians in the United States. In the Bay Area, according to some
local estimates, there are between 80,000 to 180,000.

Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network (SIREN), said that critical Asian perspectives on immigration reform has
been largely silent, perhaps overshadowed by the Latino perspective.

Casillas, who is moderating the panel discussion, said she is pleased that work
to spread public awareness of the issue is now being done.

The discussion is being sponsored by Vision New America, a San Jose non-profit
that works to increase participation of Asians in civic and community
activities; and South Bay First Thursdays, a monthly dinner series focusing on
issues affecting Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders.

``There's a stereotype that all undocumented immigrants are Latinos,'' Casillas
said. ``So we're taking our mandate to inform different immigrant communities.''

Casillas said she was surprised by the estimated size of the undocumented Asian
population in the United States and the Bay Area.

But as immigrant advocates have long reported, the undocumented population,
contrary to the stereotype that it's all Latino or all Mexican, is varied. There
are Filipinos with expired tourist visas, Indian and Chinese engineers with
lapsed H-1B visas and relatives with expired visitor's visas.

Among immigrant groups, Filipinos, Indians and Chinese have the longest wait,
some as long as 25 years, for a visa for relatives, Punongbayan said. A
provision in the Senate bill under consideration includes a reduction in the
visa backlog that could help re-unite many Asian families, he said.

The seeming reluctance of Asians to jump into the immigration reform debate may
stem from a lack of awareness about the impact of proposed legislation in
Congress, some advocates said.

However, a practical reason may be greater difficulties in community outreach,
Lyons said. With Latinos, he said, information is dispensed in one language,
Spanish. With Asian-Americans, advocates face a daunting task of translating
information into a dozen languages.

``It's extremely time-consuming,'' Lyons said. ``It does slow down the
organizing effort.''

IF YOU'RE INTERESTEDThe panel will be held at 6:30 p.m. in room 105 of the
United Way Building, 1922 The Alameda, San Jose. Additional information is
online (www.firstthursdays.org). To reserve a seat, call Tamon Norimoto at (408)
373-8119.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 7, 2006 Monday

Immigration reform bills at standstill;
CONGRESSIONAL INACTION COULD LIMIT STATE FUNDING

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words


Months of marches, hearings and passionate argument, along with fierce debate
over two conflicting bills on immigration, have led to this: deadlock in
Congress and no immigration reform this year.

That's the consensus on Capitol Hill and among policy experts. It's even shared
by President Bush, who has pushed for a comprehensive bill. During a recent
meeting, Bush told Mexican President Vicente Fox that no immigration overhaul
was likely in 2006, Fox said.

This inaction means that California, with almost one-quarter of the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, will see limited improvements in border
security, uneven enforcement at workplaces and great uncertainty for
undocumented workers, said several policy and security experts.

``Expectations were raised for some sort of resolution, and this will only
increase tension at the border and make problems even worse,'' predicted Stewart
Verdery, former assistant secretary of Homeland Security.

Republicans, seriously divided on immigration, are also worried about the
political impact of inaction. With Bush's active role on the issue and GOP
control of Congress, failure to produce a bill ``could be a real political
problem for the party,'' said Rep. George Radanovich, R-Fresno.

Democrats are ready to pounce. ``They're in charge, and this just adds to the
image of a do-nothing Congress,'' Sen. Barbara Boxer said last week.

Advocates on all sides of the debate, from those who favor legalizing the status
of illegal immigrants to those who want to crack down at the border and
workplace, can agree on this: Delaying or ducking this issue is a big mistake,
and will only make it more urgent and fractious next year.

``It's a dereliction of duty not to act, and it just forces some difficult
issues on to the states,'' said John Keeley, communications director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tougher enforcement.

He noted a surge this year in bills in state legislatures to deal with
immigration. California, like other states, is wrestling with how much health
coverage to provide the children of illegal immigrants and other issues.

`Deeply disappointed'

Larisa Casillas, an immigrant advocate in San Jose, said Bay Area residents with
undocumented relatives and friends are ``deeply disappointed'' that Congress
cannot agree on some process for eventual citizenship. But she said big rallies,
like the one in San Jose on May 1, raised awareness among immigrants, who will
stay active.

``The community is energized, and we're now concentrating on registering
voters,'' said Casillas, policy director of Services, Immigration Rights and
Education Network, a social services organization. She said immigration
advocates are planning more marches for Labor Day.

The deadlock has persisted because the House and Senate produced two different
bills, and House GOP leaders, unwilling to compromise, have refused to hold a
conference to try to resolve the differences.

``I think both bills are dead,'' said Radanovich, who attended a recent strategy
session at the White House.

That would mean no big infusion of money for border security. Both bills would
add Border Patrol agents and hundreds of miles of fences on the Mexican border.

``We need more resources, but some gains in security will continue anyway,''
said Brian Goebel, former senior policy adviser to Customs and Border
Protection.

Border Patrol boost

Since 2001, the Border Patrol has grown more than 40 percent, Goebel said, and
new high-tech tracking, more detention facilities and coordination with the
military and National Guard should cut down on the influx of illegal immigrants.

Verdery, who worked on border and transportation security at Homeland Security,
said lower-profile issues -- better employment verification to screen
undocumented workers, and the integration of agency databases -- are still
under-funded.

Goebel, Verdery and eight other former security officials -- including ex-Coast
Guard Commandant James Loy, who was deputy secretary of Homeland Security -- say
enforcement is not enough. They support a guest-worker program and a process for
some illegal residents to legalize their status.

``You're never going to enforce your way out of this problem,'' Verdery said.
``As long as the jobs are here, people will find a way to get in.''

The political fallout from this year's deadlock is difficult to predict, but
Republicans, because of their leadership position, appear most vulnerable.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican eager to show his independence, has
castigated GOP congressional leaders for inaction. Sen. Mel Martinez of Florida,
the only Latino Republican in the Senate, has warned that the GOP risks
alienating Latino voters with some of its anti-immigration rhetoric.

But ``enforcement-only'' Republicans insist that their active, vocal base
opposed to any ``amnesty'' for illegal residents will help them this fall. They
point to the special election victory in June of Republican Brian Bilbray, who
won a House seat in San Diego after taking a hard line on immigration and
criticizing Bush's immigration proposals.

This fall, the GOP's underdog challenger to Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein is
former state Sen. Dick Mountjoy -- best known as the author in 1994 of
Proposition 187, which would have denied government services to illegal
immigrants.

Many political observers believe that measure drove Latino voters in California
away from the GOP for years. Some recent national polls have shown a growing
disenchantment among Latino voters with Bush and the GOP, but translating that
into votes is a different matter.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 383-6008.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 7, 2006 Monday

Immigration reform bills at standstill;
CONGRESSIONAL INACTION COULD LIMIT STATE FUNDING

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words


Months of marches, hearings and passionate argument, along with fierce debate
over two conflicting bills on immigration, have led to this: deadlock in
Congress and no immigration reform this year.

That's the consensus on Capitol Hill and among policy experts. It's even shared
by President Bush, who has pushed for a comprehensive bill. During a recent
meeting, Bush told Mexican President Vicente Fox that no immigration overhaul
was likely in 2006, Fox said.

This inaction means that California, with almost one-quarter of the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, will see limited improvements in border
security, uneven enforcement at workplaces and great uncertainty for
undocumented workers, said several policy and security experts.

``Expectations were raised for some sort of resolution, and this will only
increase tension at the border and make problems even worse,'' predicted Stewart
Verdery, former assistant secretary of Homeland Security.

Republicans, seriously divided on immigration, are also worried about the
political impact of inaction. With Bush's active role on the issue and GOP
control of Congress, failure to produce a bill ``could be a real political
problem for the party,'' said Rep. George Radanovich, R-Fresno.

Democrats are ready to pounce. ``They're in charge, and this just adds to the
image of a do-nothing Congress,'' Sen. Barbara Boxer said last week.

Advocates on all sides of the debate, from those who favor legalizing the status
of illegal immigrants to those who want to crack down at the border and
workplace, can agree on this: Delaying or ducking this issue is a big mistake,
and will only make it more urgent and fractious next year.

``It's a dereliction of duty not to act, and it just forces some difficult
issues on to the states,'' said John Keeley, communications director of the
Center for Immigration Studies, which favors tougher enforcement.

He noted a surge this year in bills in state legislatures to deal with
immigration. California, like other states, is wrestling with how much health
coverage to provide the children of illegal immigrants and other issues.

`Deeply disappointed'

Larisa Casillas, an immigrant advocate in San Jose, said Bay Area residents with
undocumented relatives and friends are ``deeply disappointed'' that Congress
cannot agree on some process for eventual citizenship. But she said big rallies,
like the one in San Jose on May 1, raised awareness among immigrants, who will
stay active.

``The community is energized, and we're now concentrating on registering
voters,'' said Casillas, policy director of Services, Immigration Rights and
Education Network, a social services organization. She said immigration
advocates are planning more marches for Labor Day.

The deadlock has persisted because the House and Senate produced two different
bills, and House GOP leaders, unwilling to compromise, have refused to hold a
conference to try to resolve the differences.

``I think both bills are dead,'' said Radanovich, who attended a recent strategy
session at the White House.

That would mean no big infusion of money for border security. Both bills would
add Border Patrol agents and hundreds of miles of fences on the Mexican border.

``We need more resources, but some gains in security will continue anyway,''
said Brian Goebel, former senior policy adviser to Customs and Border
Protection.

Border Patrol boost

Since 2001, the Border Patrol has grown more than 40 percent, Goebel said, and
new high-tech tracking, more detention facilities and coordination with the
military and National Guard should cut down on the influx of illegal immigrants.

Verdery, who worked on border and transportation security at Homeland Security,
said lower-profile issues -- better employment verification to screen
undocumented workers, and the integration of agency databases -- are still
under-funded.

Goebel, Verdery and eight other former security officials -- including ex-Coast
Guard Commandant James Loy, who was deputy secretary of Homeland Security -- say
enforcement is not enough. They support a guest-worker program and a process for
some illegal residents to legalize their status.

``You're never going to enforce your way out of this problem,'' Verdery said.
``As long as the jobs are here, people will find a way to get in.''

The political fallout from this year's deadlock is difficult to predict, but
Republicans, because of their leadership position, appear most vulnerable.

Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican eager to show his independence, has
castigated GOP congressional leaders for inaction. Sen. Mel Martinez of Florida,
the only Latino Republican in the Senate, has warned that the GOP risks
alienating Latino voters with some of its anti-immigration rhetoric.

But ``enforcement-only'' Republicans insist that their active, vocal base
opposed to any ``amnesty'' for illegal residents will help them this fall. They
point to the special election victory in June of Republican Brian Bilbray, who
won a House seat in San Diego after taking a hard line on immigration and
criticizing Bush's immigration proposals.

This fall, the GOP's underdog challenger to Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein is
former state Sen. Dick Mountjoy -- best known as the author in 1994 of
Proposition 187, which would have denied government services to illegal
immigrants.

Many political observers believe that measure drove Latino voters in California
away from the GOP for years. Some recent national polls have shown a growing
disenchantment among Latino voters with Bush and the GOP, but translating that
into votes is a different matter.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 383-6008.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

WHAT CAN HELP VEGA?

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 112 words


The DREAM Act would give children of illegal immigrants who graduate from U.S.
high schools a path to citizenship.

WHO WOULD QUALIFY?

Undocumented students brought to the United States by their parents at age 15 or
younger, graduate from high school and go on to college, or serve in the U.S.
military, could qualify for temporary, and eventually permanent, legal status.

Students who have committed crimes, or are deemed security risks, would not
qualify.

WHERE DOES IT STAND?

The proposed legislation is attached to an immigration reform bill approved by
the U.S. Senate, and awaiting compromise with the U.S. House of Representatives.

Source: National Immigration Law Center

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

See GRADUATE

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words


Hector Vega is co-valedictorian of James Lick High School in East San Jose,
winner of a $20,000 National Merit Scholarship and an entering freshman on a
full scholarship at Santa Clara University.

He didn't speak a word of English five years ago when he arrived from Mexico,
but he mastered the language in a year, advanced to honors classes and graduated
from high school with a 4.0 grade-point average.

Vega is also an illegal immigrant.

Tall, soft-spoken and confident, Hector Vega, 19, is making a risky -- some say
courageous -- choice in sharing his story and declaring publicly, ``Soy
ilegal.''

In the divisive national debate about immigration reform, the young man from
East San Jose is offering a rarely heard personal and public voice,
representative of the predicament of thousands of children who were brought here
by undocumented parents. Among the 12 million illegal immigrants living in the
United States, each year about 65,000 undocumented children graduate from U.S.
schools, unable to work legally, or qualify for federal school loans and grants.

``I speak on behalf of many that come here in the quest for a better life,'' he
said in a valedictory that moved students, parents and teachers to tears. ``I
am, like many others out there who never give up their hopes, an immigrant. . .
. ''

The controversial DREAM Act, a provision in the U.S. Senate-approved immigration
reform bill, would give legal status to students like Vega.

The Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies opposes it.

``It undermines the enforcement of immigration laws,'' said John Keeley,
spokesman for CIS. ``The laws are explicit on what's to be done with illegal
immigrants, irrespective of their GPAs or age.''

For Vega, the prospect of not being able to attend college here was more
frightening than the risk of deportation.

``I just kept thinking, `I went through all this and I won't get to see my dream
realized,' '' he said. ``I thought, `There has to be a way.' ''

Anxious for him

Everyone around Vega -- his mother, friends, teachers, mentors and new college
advisers -- are worried for him.

``Anybody who speaks for justice puts themselves at risk,'' said the Rev. Sonny
Manuel, rector of the Jesuit community at SCU. ``If this were safe, if everyone
agreed, you wouldn't have to say anything.''

Virginia Kice, spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said,
``Anyone who's in this country illegally is in violation of our immigration laws
and is subject to arrest,'' but in an individual case such as Vega's, she added,
``We don't speculate on what action we might or might not take.''

Vega was 14 when he arrived in San Jose in November 2001, with his sister. They
came on six-month visas, like their mother, who had immigrated two years earlier
to join two aunts, both U.S. citizens.

In school, officials concerned about his language skills suggested he repeat a
grade. Vega argued, ``If I didn't do well, then I'll repeat a grade. I knew I
wouldn't.''

Said his Spanish teacher and mentor, Julissa Huerta: ``Right away, you knew he
had a strong spirit. I remember meeting him and his mother. He said he was
working cleaning trucks. I thought, `Wow.' ''

He washed big rigs and later sold cell phones, primarily to Spanish speakers at
a mall. His mother worked at a nursing home.

He organized a bilingual certification campaign for Californians for Justice, a
non-profit organization. East Side district schools began issuing certificates
of bilingual ability to students.

``He had a deep sense of self,'' said Janelle Ishida, lead organizer for San
Jose's CFJ. ``He's deeply motivated.''

Quick study

Between his freshman and sophomore years, Vega completed remedial English and
then skipped over three levels.

``As a teacher, you couldn't forgive yourself if you didn't go the extra mile
for him,'' counselor Mildred Llanos-Richard said. ``It was a privilege.''

He collected top grades in math and science, wrote essays in Spanish and English
that teachers used as instruction models, and mentored new immigrant students.
He also raised more than $1,000 for a folkloricodance group's costumes.

``I wanted to be like other kids,'' said Vega, president of his senior class.
``I was driven.''

And brave. During a civics field trip to Washington, D.C., in April, another
student started joking ``about building a border fence and putting a maze under
the fence and making the Mexicans go through the maze, and then putting Taco
Bells at the end of the maze,'' said a classmate, Karen Madrigal. ``It was just
so offensive and dumb.''

Vega spoke up.

``He was cool and collected,'' she said. ``He told the guy that it was
inappropriate and not respectful.''

Latinos make up 75 percent of the 1,100 students at Vega's James Lick High
School. Most are immigrants and some are undocumented.

Daily worry

``It's an everyday reality for students and families,'' organizer Ishida said.

Out of six universities that accepted Vega, he chose Santa Clara University. It
offered a full scholarship. It also meant, as his mother had wished, that he'd
stay close to home.

Eight years ago, said the Rev. Manuel, SCU became one of the first universities
in the United States to grant scholarships to undocumented students. About 10
undocumented students have since graduated from SCU.

``Hector Vega is an example of how well these students have done,'' Manuel said.
``They're high achievers.''

Another example is Princeton University honors student Dan-El Padilla, who was
offered a two-year scholarship to Oxford University in England but had to
refuse. He's an illegal immigrant, brought to the United States at age 4. If he
were to travel to England, he would be barred from returning to the United
States for at least 10 years. He is appealing his immigration case with the
federal government.

Scholarships pile up

As Vega searched for a university to attend, he was keenly aware of his limited
access to grants and loans. He applied for 15 scholarships, submitting an essay
in which he divulged: ``As I restarted my life, I faced closed doors at every
turn along the way due to my status as an undocumented student.''

He won a handful of small regional scholarships. Early this year, Vega learned
that he was one of 250 national winners of a $20,000 merit scholarship from
Coca-Cola Scholars Foundation.

``It was bliss,'' Vega said of being chosen out of 50,000 applicants.

When Coca-Cola learned he was undocumented, the foundation considered
withdrawing the scholarship.

Mary Dutcher, immigration program director for the non-profit Community Legal
Services in East Palo Alto, filed an immigration application for Vega sponsored
by an uncle who is a U.S. citizen. Coca-Cola then awarded him the scholarship.

``What we have at the university is really an effort, a Jesuit tradition, to
meet everybody's needs,'' Manuel said, ``a whole spectrum of needs: students who
need financial help, students who deserve merit -- and, certainly, undocumented
students would be a part of that group.''

The standard that applies, Manuel said, is, ``How universal is it? Does it
really help everyone?''

Political interest

Vega does not know yet what he'll major in at college. Politics interests him.
So do journalism and writing. He hopes a member of Congress hears his story and
becomes inspired to introduce legislation to help illegal immigrants.

Undocumented individuals already living and working in the United States should
be granted a path to citizenship, he said, because mass deportation ``would be
chaos and cause a crisis.''

He would also like to see more skilled and educated immigrants from Mexico.

``We are more than the workers who stand in the sun asking for work,'' he wrote
in his valedictory. ``We are more than the restless farm workers that collect
vegetables in the fields. . . . We are more than that. We are intelligent
individuals capable of extraordinary success in any professional field.''

Enrique Valencia, 17, who graduated with Vega and will be attending the
University of California-Berkeley, said his friend is ``creating a connection
with this great national controversy, and a connection to our community.''

As with Padilla, the Princeton graduate from the Dominican Republic, Vega also
cannot study abroad. Walking to a public library in Alum Rock, not far from his
old high school, Vega reflected on this with resignation.

``I can't do that,'' he said. ``But maybe I can do other things.''

For now, Vega weighs in on an important national debate, knowing its risks.

``I think it's normal to feel scared,'' he said. ``But there's bigger things.
The dream, the hope, the idea that you can better yourself.''

CorrectionA front-page article Thursday about student Hector Vega gave his
incorrect age. Vega is 18 years old. The same article incorrectly characterized
a decision by Dan-El Padilla, a Princeton University student. Padilla accepted a
scholarship to Oxford University.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2006



CORRECTION: A front-page article Thursday about student  Hector Vega gave his
incorrect age. Vega is 18 years old. The same article incorrectly characterized
a decision by  Dan-El Padilla, a  Princeton University student. Padilla accepted
a scholarship to  Oxford University.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 12, 2006 Tuesday

Undocumented immigrants arrested in South Bay

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 339 words


U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents sent illegal immigrants packing
last week when they arrested 107 adults living in the South Bay without proper
permits, 87 of whom were immediately deported, according to ICE.

The crackdown targeted immigrants living in Watsonville, Santa Cruz and
Hollister, 19 of whom remain in the United States pending a hearing before an
immigration judge.

According to ICE, some of the arrested had received, but ignored, final
deportation orders issued by immigration judges whereas others had violated U.S.
criminal law. One arrestee was turned over to Fresno police on a recent arrest
warrant for allegedly possessing an illegal substance and driving without a
license.

About 19 of those arrested had past convictions, including robbery, assault with
a deadly weapon, sex offenses against minors, drug violations and receiving
stolen property, according to ICE.

The majority of the undocumented immigrants were deported to Mexico, although
some came from India, El Salvador and Guatemala, according to ICE officials.

Once a final deportation order is issued, individuals can immediately be removed
from the country. According to ICE, however, several immigrants ignore these
orders and stay illegally as `immigration fugitives.`

According to ICE officials, more than 590,000 people are currently living as
immigration fugitives nationwide.

Between October 2005 and August, ICE agents arrested more than 24,000
undocumented immigrants in the United States, including nearly 2,000 in the Bay
Area. Out of the 24,000, more than 6,800 have been returned to their home
country.

`Our message is -- if you are ordered deported, you should obey the immigration
court's order. Otherwise, ICE is going to track you down and send you home,`
Nancy Alcantar, field office director for ICE detention and removal operations
in San Francisco, said in a statement.

Copyright © 2006 by Bay City News, Inc. -- republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 22, 2005 Tuesday

Special unit patrols rugged border area;
MIGRANTS ROUNDED UP IN DESOLATE MOUNTAINS EAST OF SAN DIEGO

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words


Immigrant smugglers once avoided the rugged, chaparral-covered canyons east of
San Diego for easier crossing points -- but now the Otay Mountains are one of
the busiest areas along California's border with Mexico.

As smugglers try to stay a step ahead of the law, the U.S. Border Patrol has
followed with its only unit of agents who are ferried around in helicopters and
then set out on foot in search of illegal immigrants.

The Border Patrol formed its Air Mobile Unit in 2003 to monitor remote parts of
western California, where tens of thousands of immigrants cross each year.

Increased enforcement in San Diego and El Paso, Texas, has squeezed border
crossers into less hospitable corridors, including deserts where hundreds die
each year. The Otay Mountains are not the deadliest point along the 2,000-mile
border, but they are treacherous.

Dehydration threatens as summer temperatures race past 100; hypothermia is a
danger during winter. Broken wrists and twisted ankles are common and it is easy
to get lost on the lattice of trails. In the last year, 23 migrants have been
reported dead in the Border Patrol's San Diego sector, which includes Otay
(pronounced OH-tie).

Given their outdoor office, the agents must be fit.

Mark Cary, a former Marine, once took nine hours to trek seven miles from the
dilapidated border fence to the nearest major road, Highway 94. Migrants
typically take two days to cover the same route, he says.

All but two of the Air Mobile Unit's 54 agents are men. All but one is under 40
years old -- and he's a supervisor with a desk job.

One evening this fall, two agents broke thick sweats as they sped downhill over
granite boulders and branches burned during California's 2003 wildfires.

About an hour later, one agent pointed excitedly to the right, stepped off the
narrow trail, clutched his rifle and peered through the dense brush. Within
moments, 14 Mexicans were in U.S. custody.

The agents' shift began shortly before sunset at San Diego's Brownfield
Municipal Airport, where nearly every night Black Hawk helicopters take agents
into mountains where one canyon is known among migrants as ``La Espina del
Diablo'' -- the devil's spine -- and trails are named Dead Cow and Tequila Draw.

Just outside Dulzura, a hamlet about 25 miles east of San Diego, Cary and fellow
agent Jeff Mielke struck out on one of the countless footpaths blazed by
migrants.

Words were few and flashlights were kept off to avoid drawing attention. Midway
down the canyon, the agents found the 14 migrants -- abandoned by their guide --
resting on rocks near one of the makeshift shrines scattered along the border.

The shrine -- a cave-like boulder formation just over a mile from Mexico that
can fit one squatting adult -- contained three burning candles, dozens of
extinguished candles and hundreds of prayer cards. One card bore Santo Toribio
Romo, the Mexican patron of migrants.

``You're all illegals?'' Cary asked in Spanish, as he emptied backpacks of tuna
cans, water jugs, pills and prayer cards and frisked each person for weapons.
Several nodded yes. Cary said everyone was under arrest.

Another group of agents in the same canyon called periodically by radio to
report their arrests -- first a group of 15, then eight, finally two.

All told, the two teams arrested 64 people, adding to the unit's total of about
16,000 to date.

Typically, nearly all migrants return voluntarily to Mexico without facing
charges, escorted in vans to the main border station at the Tijuana-San Diego
crossing. This night is no different.

One Mexican had been deported three times before. Another said he was a foot
guide for the smugglers. Neither met federal prosecution guidelines.

``That's what's so demoralizing,'' said Chuck Albrecht, the Air Mobile Unit's
field operations supervisor. ``You know a lot of them are just going to try
again eight hours later.''

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 19, 2005 Monday

Plan to add visas for high-tech and skilled workers dropped

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Senate-passed measure to add more visas for foreign workers in high-tech and
specialty fields was dropped from a budget bill that passed the House early
Monday, disappointing high-tech and manufacturing firms in search of skilled
workers.

The Senate plan would have allowed 30,000 more of the popular H1-B visas each
year, and increased fees for those visas to help trim the budget deficit.
Congress capped the six-year H-1B visas at 65,000 per year in 2004, and that cap
has already been reached for the 2006 fiscal year that began Oct. 1.

The Senate language also would have allowed 90,000 more employment-based green
cards that offer permanent residency to skilled workers, and added fees for
those.

Critics contend the visas give foreigners high-level jobs that should go to
American workers, and the plan was opposed by some House Republicans as a
backdoor way to boost immigration. House and Senate negotiators left it out of
the final version of a $39.7 billion federal budget bill that passed the House
212-206 and was expected to get a Senate vote later in the day.

``This is very, very disappointing,'' said Sandy Boyd, a vice president at the
National Association of Manufacturers. ``What's distressing about this, and what
the Senate clearly understood, is there is a real global competition for this
work and for these employees, and the question is not whether the work is going
to get done, it's where is the work going to get done. We've missed a real
opportunity by not ensuring the work would be done here.''

House and Senate negotiators also dropped a plan to increase fees on another
kind of visa, the L-1, which companies use to transfer workers they already
employ in foreign countries to the United States.

The boost to visa availability and fees was meant to achieve budget savings in
programs under jurisdiction of the congressional judiciary committees. Instead
of using visas, the final version of the bill saves money in judiciary programs
by increasing fees for filing lawsuits and filing for bankruptcy.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday

Mexican leader predicts U.S. will seek migrant workers

BYLINE: Kevin G. Hall, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 568 words


Flying high above the Yucatán Peninsula, Mexican President Vicente Fox leaned
forward and pointed a finger to make this point: In a few years, he said, the
United States may be begging Mexico for the very workers it's now trying to keep
out by building a wall along the border.

With the looming retirement from the workforce of the U.S. baby-boom generation,
and with Mexico's population growth-rate declining, immigration from Mexico will
slow just as demand for workers in the United States will be growing, he told
Knight Ridder in an interview aboard his presidential jet.

``I am absolutely convinced that by 2010, the United States will have a great
demand for workers and laborers to sustain its economy and to sustain its
population of retirees and pensioners,'' the president said. ``And in that very
year, Mexico will need its young people to help its own economy and to attend to
its own retirees.''

When Fox took office in 2000, he vowed to make an immigration accord with the
United States a top priority, and he thought he had a likely partner in
President Bush, who took office less than two months later. But the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks derailed Bush's plans for an immigration accord as the
United States adopted a tough, national-security view of all border issues.

Now, in the final months of his six-year term -- Mexico limits presidents to one
term -- Fox shows no disappointment as he suggests that the two sides eventually
will come to terms with the realities of migration, even if no accord is reached
before he leaves office Dec. 1 or before the next U.S. presidential elections in
2008.

``Yes, we have sought an immigration accord for 80 years. It hasn't been reached
in 80 years. However, today, we are closer than ever,'' Fox said.

Demographic experts said Fox was at least partly right. The rate of Mexico's
population growth has slowed, from 1.4 percent annually in 2000 to 0.99 percent
today. That means that fewer Mexicans will be joining the workforce in the
future, making it easier for them to find work in their own country. Fewer will
feel pushed to the United States.

But the pull of jobs in the United States still might draw Mexicans across the
border, especially as the wave of 76 million baby boomers -- those born from
1946 to 1964 -- begins reaching retirement age in 2011.

Fox secured his place in Mexican history by defeating the candidate of the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, which had ruled Mexico without interruption
for 71 years.

But Fox's National Action Party never enjoyed a majority in Congress, and the
Institutional Revolutionary Party managed to block many of its initiatives. Fox
never quite figured out a way around that obstacle, and many Mexicans think he
should have achieved more.

That theme came across in a lengthy conversation Monday as Fox traveled by plane
and helicopter across the Yucatán Peninsula, part of a nationwide five-day blitz
to inaugurate 46 highway and public-works projects in 15 Mexican states.

On his list of accomplishments: Mexico's credit rating has improved, its
reserves of foreign currency now exceed its foreign debt and it has a balanced
budget that Washington would envy.

Fox is particularly proud that Mexico's inflation rate is now below that of the
United States -- 3.3 percent, against 3.4 percent for the U.S. in 2005. Interest
rates in Mexico fell more than 52 percent in the first four years of his term.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 20, 2006 Monday

Feinstein supports some immigration reform

BYLINE: Phil Yost, Mercury News

LENGTH: 380 words


U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein said today she is increasingly willing to consider a
guest worker program as a way of curbing unregulated immigration into the United
States. But, she added, ``I'm not entirely there yet'' in finding a specific
proposal to support.

After a wide-ranging luncheon speech to the Silicon Valley Leadership Group in
San Jose, the veteran Democrat said her main concern was that the program not
``become a magnet'' that would attract undocumented immigrants who would not
return to their home country. Guest worker programs usually permit workers into
the United States for a limited time.

On another immigration issue, Feinstein allied herself with Silicon Valley
companies in supporting an increase in the number of H1-B visas, which permit
companies to bring highly skilled immigrants from overseas to work in the United
States.

During her hour-long appearance before an audience of 350 at the San Jose Hyatt,
Feinstein also encouraged the effort to bring BART to San Jose. The leadership
group is a strong supporter of an additional half-cent sales tax that will
appear on the June 6 ballot. The ballot language says money raised from the tax
could be spent on a variety of projects, from trauma and emergency services to
health insurance for uninsured children to ``transportation improvements.'' But
BART presumably would get a share. The willingness of local governments to
finance transportation projects increases chances of federal assistance,
Feinstein said.

Commenting on the war in Iraq, Feinstein bluntly called for President Bush to
rethink his approach, including finding a new secretary of defense to replace
Donald Rumsfeld. ``I think the president should put in a new team,'' she said.

``What I would support is a kind of strategic downsizing and redeployment,'' the
senator said. U.S. troops in Iraq should be reduced from 130,000 now to 80,000
by year's end. That would allow the military to attack terrorists more
effectively in other countries, such as Afghanistan.

Feinstein concluded her speech with a warning that ``the clock is ticking on
global warming.'' She said she plans to introduce legislation to cap emissions
at current levels, and then to begin reducing them in 2011.

Contact Phil Yost at pyost@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5636.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

H-1B visa increase advances in Senate;
WOULD ALLOW MORE FOREIGN WORKERS IN U.S.

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera, Mercury News Washington Bureau

LENGTH: 632 words


A Senate committee voted Monday to significantly increase the number of visas
for highly skilled foreign workers as part of a controversial immigration bill
that faces an uncertain future in Congress.

Silicon Valley high-tech companies are strongly backing the proposed increase in
H-1B visas, which currently are capped at 65,000 a year. Various exemptions in
the program for certain types of jobs, such as those with non-profit
organizations, mean that approximately 220,000 foreigners a year now actually
receive the six-year visas.

The proposal approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee would increase the
annual cap from 65,000 to 115,000 beginning in 2007, while keeping all those
existing exemptions. It effectively would boost the number of H-1B visas to
nearly 300,000 a year.

The plan, written by committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., also would
automatically boost the annual cap by 20 percent after any year in which the
federal government reaches the limit. And the legislation would create an
unlimited number of F-4 visas for students pursuing advanced university degrees
in science, technology, engineering or math, that would allow them to seek
permanent residence in the United States if they find a job here.

High-tech companies say they need more H-1B visas because the improving economy
has made it difficult for them to find enough qualified Americans in fields such
as math and engineering.

``Hopefully the pendulum is kind of swinging toward the understanding that these
are the workers we want in the U.S. and want to keep in the U.S.,'' said Kara
Calvert, director of government relations for the Information Technology
Industry Council, a trade group representing leading tech firms.

But some high-tech workers argue that no increase is needed. They say that
companies prefer less expensive foreigners to Americans and that part of the
reason high-tech employment has improved the past two years is because the
annual allotment of H-1B visas has gone down.

During the dot-com boom, Congress twice approved a temporary increase in the
number of H-1B visas, with the program topping out at 195,000 a year from 2001
to 2003. The allotment reverted in 2004 to its pre-1998 level of 65,000.

But problems that originally led to the increased cap have returned. The federal
government received so many applications for the 2006 allotment that it stopped
accepting them on Aug. 12, more than two months before the fiscal year began.
President Bush called on Congress in February to increase the annual cap,
although he did not request a specific number.

After a failed attempt to increase the H-1B visa cap to 95,000 last year,
Specter included an increase in his immigration bill and boosted the number to
115,000. During a daylong session Monday, the committee voted 12-6 to approve
the controversial immigration bill, which strengthens the Border Patrol and
allows illegal immigrants to apply for U.S. citizenship without first leaving
the country.

The full Senate is expected to begin debating the bill today.

The Judiciary Committee voted 7-4 against a proposal by Sen. Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa, to increase the annual cap to 200,000, while eliminating all the various
exemptions.

``I thought 115,000 was ample. I had no one say to me they needed a 200,000
cap,'' said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who has been lobbied by the tech
industry to support an increase.

Grassley argued that eliminating the exemptions would make the program easier to
understand and would allow the visas to be issued based on market forces, not on
pre-determined allotments for different employers. But Specter said Grassley's
proposal would actually be a cut in the current number of visas with the loss of
the exemptions.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington .com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

H-1B visa increase advances in Senate;
WOULD ALLOW MORE FOREIGN WORKERS IN U.S.

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 632 words


A Senate committee voted Monday to significantly increase the number of visas
for highly skilled foreign workers as part of a controversial immigration bill
that faces an uncertain future in Congress.

Silicon Valley high-tech companies are strongly backing the proposed increase in
H-1B visas, which currently are capped at 65,000 a year. Various exemptions in
the program for certain types of jobs, such as those with non-profit
organizations, mean that approximately 220,000 foreigners a year now actually
receive the six-year visas.

The proposal approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee would increase the
annual cap from 65,000 to 115,000 beginning in 2007, while keeping all those
existing exemptions. It effectively would boost the number of H-1B visas to
nearly 300,000 a year.

The plan, written by committee Chairman Arlen Specter, R-Pa., also would
automatically boost the annual cap by 20 percent after any year in which the
federal government reaches the limit. And the legislation would create an
unlimited number of F-4 visas for students pursuing advanced university degrees
in science, technology, engineering or math, that would allow them to seek
permanent residence in the United States if they find a job here.

High-tech companies say they need more H-1B visas because the improving economy
has made it difficult for them to find enough qualified Americans in fields such
as math and engineering.

``Hopefully the pendulum is kind of swinging toward the understanding that these
are the workers we want in the U.S. and want to keep in the U.S.,'' said Kara
Calvert, director of government relations for the Information Technology
Industry Council, a trade group representing leading tech firms.

But some high-tech workers argue that no increase is needed. They say that
companies prefer less expensive foreigners to Americans and that part of the
reason high-tech employment has improved the past two years is because the
annual allotment of H-1B visas has gone down.

During the dot-com boom, Congress twice approved a temporary increase in the
number of H-1B visas, with the program topping out at 195,000 a year from 2001
to 2003. The allotment reverted in 2004 to its pre-1998 level of 65,000.

But problems that originally led to the increased cap have returned. The federal
government received so many applications for the 2006 allotment that it stopped
accepting them on Aug. 12, more than two months before the fiscal year began.
President Bush called on Congress in February to increase the annual cap,
although he did not request a specific number.

After a failed attempt to increase the H-1B visa cap to 95,000 last year,
Specter included an increase in his immigration bill and boosted the number to
115,000. During a daylong session Monday, the committee voted 12-6 to approve
the controversial immigration bill, which strengthens the Border Patrol and
allows illegal immigrants to apply for U.S. citizenship without first leaving
the country.

The full Senate is expected to begin debating the bill today.

The Judiciary Committee voted 7-4 against a proposal by Sen. Charles Grassley,
R-Iowa, to increase the annual cap to 200,000, while eliminating all the various
exemptions.

``I thought 115,000 was ample. I had no one say to me they needed a 200,000
cap,'' said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who has been lobbied by the tech
industry to support an increase.

Grassley argued that eliminating the exemptions would make the program easier to
understand and would allow the visas to be issued based on market forces, not on
pre-determined allotments for different employers. But Specter said Grassley's
proposal would actually be a cut in the current number of visas with the loss of
the exemptions.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington .com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Proposed expansion of H-1B visas is long overdue

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 365 words


The increase in the number of visas for skilled tech workers, part of a broader
immigration bill approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, is an important
step to boost America's and Silicon Valley's competitiveness.

The visas, known as H-1B, have been capped at 65,000 annually. Yet the demand
for engineers, programmers and other workers with specialized skills is such
that in the past two years all the available visas were taken on the first day
of the fiscal year.

That has left tech companies throughout the valley and beyond unable to fill key
positions here -- increasing the likelihood of more jobs moving overseas. The
50,000 additional visas approved by the committee would go a long way toward
helping companies meet their workforce needs locally.

Yet the Senate should do more to shed light on the H-1B visa program. Various
reports have raised suspicions that some companies abuse the program by bringing
in foreigners with run-of-the-mill skills at sub-par wages, displacing deserving
American workers. That's not what the program was intended for. By requiring the
government to track and report wages, educational background, job categories and
other data about H-1B visa recipients, Congress could expose the alleged abuse
-- or put the suspicions to rest.

Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter should also be commended for
proposing to create a new kind of visa for students pursuing master's or
doctoral degrees in science, math or engineering at U.S. universities.

These students, whose education is often subsidized by American taxpayers,
represent the best and brightest from around the world. The new F-4 visas would
put them on the path to U.S. citizenship, increasing the chances that they would
remain here rather than pursue opportunities in their home countries.

Talented immigrants had a hand in founding Intel, Sun Microsystems, Yahoo,
Google, eBay and other valley icons. These provisions would keep America's door
open for the world's best innovators and entrepreneurs. As negotiations on the
overall immigration bill move forward, senators of both parties should rally
behind them and help the country retain its global economic and technological
leadership.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Hastert open to deal on guest-worker plan

Speaker Dennis Hastert said Wednesday that he and other House Republicans
recognized the need for a guest-worker program, opening the door to a possible
compromise with the Senate on fiercely debated immigration legislation.

``We're going to look at all alternatives,'' Hastert, R-Ill., said at a news
conference. ``Our first priority is to protect the border. And we also know
there is a need in some sections of the economy for a guest-worker program.''

Many House Republicans and conservatives in the Senate oppose legislation that
would grant citizenship to illegal immigrants, like the bill passed by the
Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday.

WEST VIRGINIA

Surviving miner blots memories of disaster

The sole survivor of the Sago Mine disaster would prefer to forget the few
images he can recall from the 41 hours he lay trapped deep underground in a mine
filled with toxic fumes.

When Randal McCloy Jr., 26, thinks of the 12 co-workers who succumbed to carbon
monoxide poisoning after a Jan. 2 explosion, he pictures them elsewhere.

``I try to leave out all the gory details and stuff like that because I don't
like to look at them in that light and that way,'' he said Wednesday, a day
before he was to be released from a rehabilitation hospital in Morgantown.

In other news

 A grand jury charged Wednesday that a former federal prosecutor in Detroit who
led one of the Justice Department's biggest terrorism investigations in 2002
concealed evidence to bolster the government's theory that a group of Muslim men
were plotting an attack.

A federal judge in Alexandria, Va., Wednesday sentenced Ahmed Omar Abu Ali, the
Falls Church, Va., man convicted of conspiring to kill President Bush and of
joining an Al-Qaida cell in Saudi Arabia, to 30 years in prison with 30
additional years of supervised release.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday

GOP senators propose spending to tighten U.S.-Mexico border

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette and Maura Reynolds, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 687 words


Senate Republicans on Tuesday introduced a $2 billion measure to add extra
agents, surveillance equipment and detention facilities along the U.S.-Mexico
border, raising fears that the move may undercut efforts to reach broader
immigration reform.

The new Senate bill came as House leaders reiterated their opposition to a
Senate proposal to create a guest-worker program and legalize many undocumented
immigrants. Monday, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., indicated that
he, too, disagreed with the legalization elements of the Senate proposal, which
he helped broker.

But that compromise measure, which also includes enforcement provisions,
received a boost from President Bush on Tuesday as he summoned a bipartisan
group of senators to the White House and encouraged them to pass a bill by
Memorial Day.

The $2 billion for enforcement measures is being added to a must-pass
supplemental spending bill for Iraq and Hurricane Katrina relief efforts.

While it may convince conservatives that tougher security can co-exist with a
guest-worker program, Democrats warned that the additional spending should not
be considered a replacement for a broader reform effort.

``Whatever we do on the supplemental dealing with border security will make our
job less difficult . . . as it relates to the guest-worker provision,'' said
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.

``If the majority tries to get out of'' broader reform ``by passing border
security only . . . it would be not only a bad decision substantively, but it
would be a terrible decision politically.''

With lawmakers deeply divided, senators have urged Bush to take a clearer public
stand in favor of the compromise to sway conservative Republicans.

``We could use some help now,'' said Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chair of the
Senate Judiciary Committee.

After meeting with the senators, Bush offered support for the Senate proposal in
general terms.

``There is a common desire to have a bill that enforces the border . . . and
also recognizes we must have a temporary-worker program,'' Bush said, arguing
that ``somebody who is working here on a legal basis has the right to get in
line to become a citizen.''

Despite Bush's lack of specifics, Tuesday's meeting seemed to energize the
lawmakers present. The Senate is expected to resume debate on immigration,
possibly by May 8, after negotiations foundered in early April over procedural
bickering. Reid said he and Frist would work to resolve those disagreements.

Specter also was upbeat. ``While the president did not endorse the Senate
committee bill that came out of Judiciary, there's no doubt that when he talks
about a comprehensive bill . . . he's talking about the ingredients of the
Senate bill,'' Specter said. ``And after this meeting, I'm confident we'll get
it done.''

With the intense public scrutiny on immigration, senators are uneasy about
voting on politically risky legislation only to see it radically changed during
attempts to align the Senate legislation with the House bill, Specter said.

Those worries took on added weight with comments Tuesday by House Majority
Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio. ``This idea that was being kicked around the Senate
about providing some sort of amnesty for those who have been here five years or
more, I just think it was a very big mistake,'' he said. ``You are just inviting
more people to come. Until you strengthen the borders and begin to enforce the
laws, we're not making any progress.''

But one leading GOP conservative, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, says in a
report to be released today that he supports granting visas to illegal
immigrants working in the United States and in some cases offering them a path
to citizenship.

According to an advance copy of his report, Gingrich said that in addition to
enhancing border controls and stiffening sanctions on those who employ illegal
immigrants, ``we must have a humanitarian period of transition as we replace an
illegal pattern of immigration with a legal one.''

But unlike the Senate compromise, Gingrich's proposal would make all workers
return to their home countries before applying for work visas.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

Willing or not, Europe needs more immigration

BYLINE: Jeffrey Fleishman, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 764 words


Europe is buying more coffins than cribs.

The continent faces a shrinking population and other harsh demographic changes
that threaten the welfare state unless it finds more foreign workers in coming
decades. But its economic need for newcomers is at odds with its skepticism of
embracing an angry and often disillusioned immigrant Muslim population.

Unlike the congressional battle over immigration in the United States, dealing
mainly with Latinos and their right to work, the furor in Europe centers on
cultural differences and anxieties over radical Islam. Whereas the United States
is a nation of immigrants, Europe historically is a continent of nationalism,
where falling birthrates and rapidly aging populations are forcing it to accept
diversity.

``The political parties in Germany know the country needs immigrants, especially
well-educated ones,'' said Bulent Arslan, head of the Turkish Forum for the
conservative Christian Democratic Union party. ``But the general population
doesn't accept this fact.''

Germany has one of the world's lowest birthrates: Fewer babies were born in 2005
than in the last year of World War II. The country will need 250,000 to 300,000
immigrants every year to sustain its population. A recent U.N. report estimated
that by 2050, Germany will need 3.5 million working-age immigrants each year to
maintain its population ratio and fund pension, health care and other programs
for the elderly.

The U.N. survey found that even allowing for immigration, the European
population will drop by 2.5 million a year by the middle of the century. In the
United States, immigrants are helping births outnumber deaths by about 1.7
million a year, although this will decline to about 500,000 a year by 2050,
according to the United Nations.

The question in Europe quickly turns from one of numbers to one of Western
values -- a concept not fully articulated by Europeans themselves, but often
used to protest the loosening of immigration policies. The Muslim population has
doubled to about 15 million since the 1980s, and many on the continent view the
religious head scarf, arranged marriages and conservative imams as challenges to
democracy and equality.

Some Muslim leaders have begun urging Europe's largest minority to do more to
integrate and to understand that Islamic principles -- despite the teachings of
fundamentalists -- are not jeopardized by Western society.

``Religion has become an issue,'' said Rainer Ohliger, an analyst with Network
Migration in Europe. ``Religion was not an issue for immigrants in the 1980s.
Then, it was social integration, housing and welfare.''

In 2000, Germany made it easier for those who had lived in the country for at
least eight years to become citizens. But new Muslim immigrants, who come from
nations as diverse as Bosnia-Herzegovina and Yemen and adhere to varying degrees
of religious devotion, face tougher measures. The German state of
Baden-Württemberg now gives a 30-question oral test designed to filter out
Islamist extremists; other states may follow suit.

In the Netherlands, where citizens were shaken by the killing of a Dutch film
director by a radical Muslim, a new residency test requires immigrants to watch
a video depicting Dutch life that includes two men kissing and topless women at
a beach. The intent is to show applicants, especially Muslims, that they must
accept Europe's liberal and secular lifestyle.

Britain and the European Union are also considering exams and ``integration
contracts'' for new arrivals.

France has one of Europe's higher birthrates and a stable immigrant population,
but doesn't have enough jobs for the 100,000 foreigners, many of them unskilled,
who arrive each year. Unemployment and anger over discrimination fueled weeks of
riots that swept the nation late last year.

French Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy wants a strict immigration bill that
rewards foreigners ``whose personality and talent are considered assets for
France's development and influences.''

The bill, now in Parliament, would make it more difficult for families to bring
unskilled relatives to France. It would also require language training for new
arrivals and end the policy of automatically giving illegal immigrants a
residency permit if they have lived in France for at least 10 years.

``We cannot be the only country in the world which does not choose who has the
right to come here,'' Sarkozy told Le Parisien newspaper. ``I want French
immigration to be chosen immigration. It can't be held against me that I want
the best to come here, and not just people who can't get in anywhere else.''

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday

Carter: Guest worker program a good solution;
FORMER PRESIDENT SAYS U.S. HOUSE BILL ON IMMIGRATION HAS `RACIST' OVERTONES

BYLINE: Jimmy Carter

SECTION: PE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words


Senate leaders have now decided to vote on an immigration bill, which is very
important to all Americans.

An untold number of American employers are in a silent and fearful quandary as
this legislation is considered. These include law-abiding farmers, building
contractors, foresters, small-business owners, homeowners and others who depend
heavily on even more troubled undocumented workers from Mexico and other Latin
American nations who have not complied with the complex immigration laws and
rules that have been deliberately ignored for a quarter century.

Overwhelmingly, these foreign employees are honest, decent and respectable human
beings, and excellent neighbors. They live in constant hope that there will be
some legal clarification of their status as workers and are eager to comply with
any reasonable restraints that might be placed on them. Some are abused by
unscrupulous business owners, who enjoy almost complete immunity from legal
sanctions. Of more than 3,200 such cases filed in 2004, there were fewer than 50
convictions.

Being able to speak some Spanish, I enjoy exchanging a few words with those who
help to plant pine tree seedlings, harvest string beans and timber products on
our family farm, do repair work on our mountain cabin or care for our rooms in
hotels. The contractors who employ them state that they show up on time every
day, work diligently, pay their taxes, are very careful never to break any laws,
take good care of their families and accept the handicaps of not being permitted
to have driver's licenses or other normal privileges of U.S. citizenship.

Some of the local farmworkers join us in our Baptist worship services, study
English at night and have appreciated the soccer goal posts that our church
provided in front of Plains High School.

The guest worker program put forward by President Bush, now being modified and
combined with other provisions in the U.S. Senate version of the bill, can
provide a reasonable solution to the longstanding conflict of having overly
restrictive American laws technically violated by hundreds of thousands of
employers and millions of undocumented workers.

This proposal creates a reasonable balance between the need for greater border
security and more orderly regulation of immigrant workers. It will double the
number of agents for Border Patrol and interior enforcement, and restrict the
passage of illegal migrants in North America both from Mexico into the United
States and from other countries into Mexico.

For those foreign workers who have been here five years or more, there would be
a path to legal status and the possibility of becoming U.S. citizens if they pay
all back taxes and a hefty fine, meet health standards, have not been guilty of
crimes, develop English language competency and prove the availability of
employment. Others who have been in the United States for two to five years
would have to leave the country and obtain temporary visas to return.

Competing legislation from the House of Representatives has strong racist
overtones and is almost entirely punitive in nature. It would automatically
brand all undocumented workers as felons and call for their mandatory
deportation. Many of their children who are U.S. citizens would be left behind
to be raised by distant relatives, friends, churches or state governments. The
House bill would impose severe penalties on any employer who has hired them and
calls for the construction of 700 miles of fencing along the Mexican border.
Collectively, these moves are impractical and would be catastrophic to the
American economy.

The key sponsors of this ill-advised legislation are almost unanimous in
opposing any increase in the U.S. minimum wage, which has been kept at the
extremely low level of $5.15 per hour for almost nine years, and not indexed to
accommodate inflation. Expressed in U.S. currency, the minimum wage in Australia
is $8.66, France $8.88, Italy $9.18, England $9.20 and Germany $12.74. For 2,000
hours of work per year in our country, this is $2,900 below the official poverty
level for a family of two. It is obvious that poverty-stricken foreign workers
are strongly attracted to jobs in America that our own workers will continue to
reject.

The Senate legislation being debated is reasonably practical and balanced and
will greatly reduce future illegal immigrants, save jobs for Americans who
desire them, end a legal quagmire for employers and their workers, and provide
sustained benefits for our nation's economy.

JIMMY CARTER was the 39th president of the United States. He wrote this article
for the Miami Herald.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: No reason to worry yet about slow processing

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 613 words


Q I submitted a Petition for Alien Fiance with a receipt date of March 31, and a
notation that processing would take 90 to 120 days.

However, when viewing the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services list of
pending applications, I find that my category is static as of Feb. 3, while all
categories involving immigrant workers have advanced.

Why is the alien fiance category and others dealing with family issues not
moving forward?

Charlene McAndrewSan Jose

A We asked Ilona Bray, an attorney and author of ``Fiance and Marriage Visas,''
to answer your question.

``The short answer to your question is that you shouldn't worry about how fast
the USCIS is going until it's actually late,'' Bray said.

``The longer explanation is that sometimes USCIS shifts work on one type of
application at the expense of another. It could later shift gears, and churn out
a lot of the waiting applications, hopefully including your fiance visa
petition.''

Bray noted the USCIS could be working simultaneously on more recent
applications.

Q My wife and I came here in June 2003 after getting a green card petitioned by
our son. Every year since, we have spent about three months abroad.

Our son has been posted by his company to work abroad for two years. We will
join him in July.

We wish to come back and live with him in the United States on his return, and
eventually apply for naturalization. How do we save our current status and
re-enter the United States in 2008?

A.M. SinhaCupertino

A As parents of an individual who is assigned to work abroad for a U.S. company,
you cannot preserve the time spent outside of the United States for
naturalization purposes, said Lucy Fong Lee, an immigration attorney in San
Francisco.

Lee elaborates: ``To maintain lawful permanent resident status, you and your
wife would need to maintain ties to the United States. This can be done by
continuing to file U.S. income taxes, maintaining a permanent residence, bank
accounts, insurance, etc.

``Also, to avoid a break in continuity of permanent residence, you must return
to the United States every six months. Moreover, I would advise you to apply for
U.S. re-entry permits, which would help to show that you do not have an intent
to abandon your permanent residence. . . .

``In order to qualify for naturalization, you and your wife must have physically
been in the United States for at least half of the last five years, or rather,
30 of the last 60 months, at the time of application. If your total time outside
the United States would have been over 30 months at July 2008, I would suggest
that you wait to apply for naturalization, when you would have accumulated at
least 30 months within the five-year time frame.''

Citizenship informational workshop: The USCIS has scheduled a workshop,
``Overview of Naturalization,'' in San Jose.

The workshop will be 6 to 8 p.m. June 24 at the Dr. Roberto Cruz Alum Rock
Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave. The session will be conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, Mercury News, Newsroom, 750
Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question considered, you
MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone number.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 11, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: No reason to worry yet about slow processing

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 612 words


Q I submitted a Petition for Alien Fiance with a receipt date of March 31, and a
notation that processing would take 90 to 120 days.

However, when viewing the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services list of
pending applications, I find that my category is static as of Feb. 3, while all
categories involving immigrant workers have advanced.

Why is the alien fiance category and others dealing with family issues not
moving forward?

Charlene McAndrewSan Jose

A We asked Ilona Bray, an attorney and author of ``Fiance and Marriage Visas,''
to answer your question.

``The short answer to your question is that you shouldn't worry about how fast
the USCIS is going until it's actually late,'' Bray said.

``The longer explanation is that sometimes USCIS shifts work on one type of
application at the expense of another. It could later shift gears, and churn out
a lot of the waiting applications, hopefully including your fiance visa
petition.''

Bray noted the USCIS could be working simultaneously on more recent
applications.

Q My wife and I came here in June 2003 after getting a green card petitioned by
our son. Every year since, we have spent about three months abroad.

Our son has been posted by his company to work abroad for two years. We will
join him in July.

We wish to come back and live with him in the United States on his return, and
eventually apply for naturalization. How do we save our current status and
re-enter the United States in 2008?

A.M. SinhaCupertino

A As parents of an individual who is assigned to work abroad for a U.S. company,
you cannot preserve the time spent outside of the United States for
naturalization purposes, said Lucy Fong Lee, an immigration attorney in San
Francisco.

Lee elaborates: ``To maintain lawful permanent resident status, you and your
wife would need to maintain ties to the United States. This can be done by
continuing to file U.S. income taxes, maintaining a permanent residence, bank
accounts, insurance, etc.

``Also, to avoid a break in continuity of permanent residence, you must return
to the United States every six months. Moreover, I would advise you to apply for
U.S. re-entry permits, which would help to show that you do not have an intent
to abandon your permanent residence. . . .

``In order to qualify for naturalization, you and your wife must have physically
been in the United States for at least half of the last five years, or rather,
30 of the last 60 months, at the time of application. If your total time outside
the United States would have been over 30 months at July 2008, I would suggest
that you wait to apply for naturalization, when you would have accumulated at
least 30 months within the five-year time frame.''

Citizenship informational workshop: The USCIS has scheduled a workshop,
``Overview of Naturalization,'' in San Jose.

The workshop will be 6 to 8 p.m. June 24 at the Dr. Roberto Cruz Alum Rock
Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave. The session will be conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, Mercury News, Newsroom, 750
Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question considered, you
MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone number.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Immigrants of all kinds work hard, deserve respect

BYLINE: Jon Pedigo

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 610 words


In our daily work with immigrants through legal services, social services,
education, health care and pastoral care, we see too many immigrant workers who
labor without sufficient rights or protections while the children and families
they seek to feed and protect become the primary scapegoats of the broken
immigration system.

We understand the fundamental reasons why people leave their country of origin
-- survival, safety, freedom, work and hope for a better life for their
families.

Yet the inherent dignity of migrants, regardless of their immigration status, is
not respected. We see the degradation of immigrants through the daily border
deaths, divided families, and decadelong waits for legal residency and
citizenship -- like the Filipino veteran of World War II who is still waiting
after 20 years for the federal government to let his family join him in America,
or the woman from El Salvador, still seeking asylum after 13 years, who saw her
family killed and raped in front of her.

We also see the devastation wrought on families living in the shadows:
isolation, low literacy levels, low wages, domestic abuse, lack of access to
health care, substandard housing and poverty.

Yet these same immigrants work hard, pay taxes, fill needed jobs and help create
jobs. During the 1990s, half of all new workers were foreign-born, filling gaps
left by native-born workers in both the high- and low-skill ends of the
spectrum. Immigrants fill jobs in key sectors, start their own businesses and
contribute to a thriving economy.

As Alan Greenspan pointed out, 70 percent of immigrants arrive in prime working
age. That means we haven't spent a penny on their education, yet they are
transplanted into our workforce and will contribute $500 billion toward our
Social Security system over the next 20 years.

Because of our firsthand experience of these hardworking immigrants and because
of our daily assistance to families at the mercy of complex, punitive and
bureaucratic federal regulations, it is natural for us to call for a more
rational, humane and comprehensive immigration reform plan. Neither the House
nor the Senate has proposed adequate legislation.

We call for a more comprehensive approach that will provide effective means for
earned legalization, citizenship and naturalization, border security, worker
protections, due process and family reunification. Only a bill that addresses
all the broken aspects of our immigration system will begin to turn what is
perceived as a crisis into an opportunity for America.

At the same time, legislation is only one part of the solution. We need our
hearts and minds converted, to welcome the stranger who brings us the bounty of
the harvest, who prepares the feast at the table, who cares for our children and
our parents, and who builds the houses that shelter us. We are saddened that too
many forget our common American heritage as immigrants. Past immigrants, with or
without papers, came and made America stronger, just as the immigrants today are
making America stronger.

Let us remember and tell each other the stories of our own immigrant parents,
grandparents or great-grandparents who came to America fleeing oppression and
poverty and seeking freedom and the opportunity to work. We cannot let this
issue disintegrate into polarization, partisanship or legislative paralysis. Let
us bring the undocumented workers out of the shadows and provide an avenue for
accountable legal presence. Let us labor now to welcome them as our co-workers
and neighbors.

JON PEDIGO is director of the Catholic Committee for Immigration Reform of the
Diocese of San Jose. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 19, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Bush's agenda on borders, guest workers

BYLINE: By Dave Montgomery; Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Bush administration urged Congress on Tuesday to enact a three-point
immigration plan that includes tougher security at the border, aggressive
interior enforcement and an immigrant guest-worker program much like the plan
the president first proposed nearly two years ago.

''We're going to get control of our borders and make this country safer for all
our citizens,'' Bush said Tuesday in hopes of winning over skeptical
conservatives with get-tough promises about illegal immigration.

The president spoke as he signed a $32 billion homeland security bill that has
large increases for patrolling borders but fewer grants for local ''first
responders.''

Under Bush's updated guest-worker program, immigrants who are living in the
United States illegally would be able to step ''out of the shadows'' to work in
the country for up to six years before being required to return to their home
countries. But they would first be required to pay ''substantial'' fines and
would not be put on paths toward permanent residency or U.S. citizenship.

The proposal, outlined in broad terms Tuesday by Homeland Security Secretary
Michael Chertoff and Labor Secretary Elaine Chao before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, was attacked by conservative Republicans, who denounced it as a form
of ''amnesty'' that would reward lawbreakers.

Chertoff and Chao disputed that, describing the guest-worker program as an
essential element in any attempt to overhaul the nation's immigration laws.

''This is a system desperately in need of repair,'' Chertoff said.

Under questioning, the homeland security chief effectively ruled out mass
deportation for the nearly 11 million immigrants who live in the country
illegally.

''I think it would be hugely, hugely difficult to do this,'' Chertoff said,
predicting that such a roundup would cost ''billions and billions and billions
of dollars'' and would be fraught with legal and logistical complications.

Congressional leaders have acknowledged that Hurricane Katrina and the debate
over President Bush's Supreme Court nominees have taken over their agenda and
delayed action on immigration until after January. But Sen. Arlen Specter,
R-Pa., the Judiciary Committee chair, said Senate leaders planned to address the
issue with ''very substantial urgency.''

Top White House staff members have been meeting with leaders in the House and
the Senate in recent weeks in an attempt to craft a compromise. The latest
blueprint, however, appeared likely to draw much of the same opposition that
Bush confronted when he proposed a temporary guest-worker program in January
2004.

''Bringing workers out of the shadows is simply another way of saying we should
legalize illegal immigrants,'' said Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., the leader of a
coalition of House conservatives who oppose a guest-worker plan. ''That's
amnesty for people who have broken the law.''

Advocates for the immigrants, on the other hand, complain that Bush's
guest-worker concept does not go far enough because it fails to offer eventual
citizenship to undocumented workers who have lived in the country for years,
paid taxes and, in many cases, contributed to their communities.

Two competing bills in the Senate also include guest-worker programs. One,
sponsored by Sens. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., would require
illegal immigrants to return to their home countries before becoming eligible to
apply for the guest-worker program.

The other, sponsored by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
would enable illegal immigrants to apply for permanent residency while they
remain in the country under temporary work visas.

Bush's plan, Chao said, recognizes that foreign workers are needed to fill jobs
that U.S. citizens often bypass, including unskilled labor and seasonal
agricultural work.

''The reforms should enable those who are here unlawfully . . . to come forward,
apply for a legal temporary-work status and participate in the legal economy,''
she said. ''But these people will not be granted amnesty for their violations of
law . . . and should be expected to pay a substantial fine or penalty to
participate in the temporary program.''

The proposed fine appeared to be the only new element of the administration's
guest-worker plan. Chao said employers would be permitted to hire foreign
workers only if the Labor Department certified that they were unable to fill
those positions with U.S. workers.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 6, 2005 Sunday

Cleanup workers wait to get paid;
IMMIGRATION STATUS PREVENTS MUCH OF WORKFORCE FROM COMPLAINING

BYLINE: Justin Pritchard, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 451 words


A pattern is emerging as the cleanup of Mississippi's Gulf Coast morphs into its
multibillion-dollar reconstruction: Come payday, untold numbers of Latino
immigrant laborers are being stiffed.

Sometimes, the boss simply vanishes. Other workers wait on promises that soon,
someone in a complex hierarchy of contractors will provide the funds to pay
them.

Non-payment of wages is a violation of federal labor law, but these workers --
thousands of them, channeled into teams that corral debris, swaddle punctured
roofs in blue tarps and gut rain-ravaged homes -- are especially vulnerable
because many are in the United States illegally.

After Katrina hit, Armando Ojeda paid $1,200 to be smuggled across the desert
border from Mexico, a walk that took several nights. Talk of $10 an hour -- more
in a day than he made each week at a computer factory back home -- led him to
pay another $1,200 to be crammed in a van with a dozen other immigrants and
driven 1,600 miles, from a safe house in Arizona to Mississippi.

The passengers were not fed -- Ojeda recalls his mouth watering when he smelled
tacos the driver ate -- and were discharged near the Naval Construction
Battalion Center in Gulfport, where Ojeda sleepwalked though his first day
clearing hurricane-strewed junk.

The job was supposed to pay $7 an hour. But six weeks later, Ojeda still hasn't
been paid the $600-plus he said he is owed for eight days of dawn-to-dusk labor.

Karen Tovar, the subcontractor on the job, acknowledged she had not been able to
pay dozens of workers a total of about $130,000. She insisted she was not at
fault, blaming the way payments can be stalled along a long chain of
subcontractors often led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

At one point, Tovar had 83 workers cleaning the Navy base under a broader, $12
million contract held by KBR, a firm owned by Vice President Dick Cheney's
former company, Halliburton.

After several weeks without pay, many workers grew frustrated and left.

``I've told them, `When I get paid, you will receive your funds.' And they say,
`When?' '' she said. ``I'm very sure it's going to be shortly.''

An Army Corps official said he was not aware of any problems with payments. A
KBR official wouldn't provide details about the base cleanup, referring
inquiries to the Navy, which referred questions about subcontractors back to
KBR.

Non-payment of immigrant workers is not a new phenomenon -- and it doesn't
appear to be as much of an issue in New Orleans. With so much work to do and not
enough laborers to do it, the market there appears to favor workers, said
immigration lawyer David Ware.

What's remarkable in Mississippi is the apparent scope of the problem, though it
is impossible to measure.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2005 Monday

VOICE FOR CHANGE

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 575 words


Patricia Diaz, 33, was named recently as the new executive director of Services,
Immigrant Rights, and Education Network, a San Jose immigrant advocacy and
service group. She will be replacing Andrea Villaseñor-Perry, who stepped down
to spend more time with her family.

Diaz, who was born in Salinas Valley and raised by immigrant parents from
Mexico, is not new to SIREN. In 2001, she was named the organization's first
policy director. She left in 2003 to become the policy director for the Latino
Coalition for a Healthy California, working on education and advocacy for
legislation affecting Latino health.

She also worked as a policy analyst with the National Council of La Raza, and
focused on health and immigrant rights issues of Latinos.

She graduated with a bachelor of science degree in psychology at the University
of California-Davis and received her master's degree in social work at the
California State University-Sacramento.

The Mercury News recently sat down with Diaz and asked her about her new role.

Q How do you feel about returning to SIREN?

A I've always had SIREN in my heart. I think there's a lot more work to be done
on the issue of immigration. This is a great opportunity to continue advocacy
for immigrants, and continue defending immigrant rights.

There's great work being done here. One day we'll see -- maybe not in our
lifetimes -- that all human beings are treated with respect and dignity.

Q What do you hope to accomplish as the new leader of SIREN?

A I did my thesis at Sacramento State on the issue of immigrants working as
community activists. And one of the things I learned in my research is the
rhetoric in the late 1800s and the 1900s directed at immigrants. Every time the
U.S. was facing insecurity -- in its economy, for example -- immigrants bore
that rhetoric.

That history made me think and realize that the work that SIREN has done in
recent years -- on education, in empowering immigrants, in making sure the
community outside of immigrants know about immigrant contributions to society --
this work should continue because it's even more important now.

One of the things that's worked well for SIREN is the training and creation of
new leaders in San Jose's immigrant community, who understand the importance of
immigrants being involved in issues that affect them. You start with having
immigrants recognize that they have the power to make changes, that they have a
voice and they recognize that they're part of this country.

That education is a process, a long process.

Q Some immigrants describe the times we live in these days as not-so friendly
toward immigrants. What is the role of SIREN in the context of these times?

A It's a time for us to work with others outside of the immigrant community to
talk about immigrant contributions to society. There are issues to address with
regards to immigration but we need to talk about solutions that are fair and
balanced, to have a dialogue that's solution-based.

Q As a daughter of immigrant parents, how do you think your life experience
informs your views on immigration and your work?

A I come from a rural area with many farmworkers from Mexico. Growing up, I
would hear stories about how workers were being mistreated in the fields. This
experience made me realize that's there's opportunity to organize so these
communities can make changes because they have power to make changes.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday

Families need ability to migrate

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 809 words


After reading the article describing how current immigration law treats families
(``Forced into long-distance marriages,'' 1A, Nov. 14), I am left wondering how
long our society is going to keep supporting discrimination based on national
residence.

The separation of families is a sad and tangible effect of immigration law. But
the essential issue is that restricting the free migration of people is simply
wrong and a rejection of the most basic principles of a free society.

Michael PeercySunnyvale

Airport project is too expensive

Can someone explain why San Jose needs a $1 billion airport expansion? If our
fearless leaders are so concerned about the Cessnas landing over Eastridge Mall,
shouldn't someone be concerned about increasing the number of DC-10s landing
directly over my house and a somewhat populated downtown? Let's face the fact
that SJC is never going to be able to handle 747s from Hong Kong and move onto
other needed improvements around the city. I am also concerned that after we
spend the billion, we will still have one of the most inefficient airports in
the nation (where else do you find baggage claim on the left side of the
street?). Somehow I feel that our leaders' egos are writing checks that our
capabilities can't cash.

Terry HarnishSan Jose

Should we believe Judge Alito?

Samuel Alito, Bush's second stab at filling Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day
O'Conner's seat, stated under oath on a government employment application that
he was proud to argue against constitutional protection for a right to privacy
including a right to an abortion -- ``to advance legal positions in which I
personally believe very strongly.'' Confronted with that statement under oath,
he tries to explain it away by essentially saying ``Well, what I said didn't
count because I didn't mean it, I was just trying to get a job.''

And we can believe him today, because now he's just trying to get a . . . D'oh!

Jason JungreisSan Francisco

San Jose police aren't `profiling'

I was disappointed to read that NAACP President Rick Callender was once again
quick to throw out wild accusations of ``racial profiling'' when it comes to
patrolling downtown nightclubs.

This issue is about keeping downtown safe and enjoyable for everyone --
regardless of race. Policing the downtown nightclub scene is a tough job. When
you have shootings in the area, it is time to do something about it. When our
officers make stops, it's because they are necessary.

Drunk driving, fights and weapons are all things an officer can be expected to
deal with when patrolling downtown. Unfortunately, it's the few bad apples that
spoil the fun downtown. Police officers must have the freedom to do their jobs
and not come under attack every time they do it from those seeking the latest
headlines on non-issues. Mr. Callender, anytime you want to patrol downtown at 2
a.m. on a Friday, let us know.

Don DeMers, president, San Jose Police Officers' AssociationSan Jose

Council ignored WiFi questions

As it turned out that Google's free-WiFi lunch for Mountain View, as your Nov.
15 editorial put it, is a fixed menu. Having entertained on Tuesday numerous
concerns voiced by Mountain View residents in the areas of security, privacy,
bandwidth and long-term health impacts of radiation, Councilman Greg Perry
dismissed them all -- prefacing his motion to accept Google's proposal letter as
received with, ``As I see it, all we're being asked to do is to rent space on
our telephone poles.'' It passed unanimously.

Bob NystromMountain View

Germany declared war on U.S.

Jack Azevedo wrote that ``commitment . . . led to the defeat of the axis of evil
in Europe despite the fact Germany had never attacked the United States.''
(Letters, Nov. 15) He did neglect to mention that Germany declared war on the
United States soon after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Germany had also
attacked and conquered most of Europe by that time and was striving to expand
the Third Reich in North Africa and Russia. Mr. Azevedo presents a case in the
same manner as his ``strong military'' leaders Bush and Cheney: long on rhetoric
and short on facts.

Henry GregoryPalo Alto

Money didn't decide election

The reason John D. Wiese (Letters, Nov. 15) did not see headlines about the way
this month's special election was bought was simply because it wasn't. While I
agree that the unions did spend an enormous amount of money to fight the ballot
measures, not one cent of their money swayed my decision.

Like many other passionate Californians, I voted no on the governor's ballot
initiatives because I disagreed with his calling a special election and wasting
my tax dollars. Not until he lost the election did he admit we were right and
agreed to start listening to what the people want. Thus the headlines about
``Humbling Loss for Schwarzenegger'' and ``resounding defeat'' were right on.

Denise AitkenSan Jose

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday

Gender typo on document can be fixed without a fee

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman and Edwin Garcia, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words


Q I became a naturalized citizen when I was 13 when my parents became U.S.
citizens. I never paid attention to the naturalization certificate but recently
discovered that the typist who completed the form marked me down as a male and
it should be female. Is this anything to be concerned about? My certificate is
dated January 1965. Should I have this corrected while both my parents are still
alive?

Karen JewPalo Alto

A If you hold a U.S. passport which identifies your gender correctly, you don't
have to worry about the naturalization certificate. Your U.S. passport is proof
of U.S. citizenship, said Susanna I. Bogue, a San Francisco immigration
attorney.

If you don't have a U.S. passport and would like or need to correct the
naturalization document, Bogue recommends that you make an appointment at your
local office of the U.S. Citizenship Immigration Services.

You will not need your parents' help to complete this change.

You can schedule an appointment by visiting www.uscis.gov and click on InfoPass.
You'll be prompted to enter your ZIP code. Some Palo Alto residents go to the
San Jose sub-office, and some to the downtown San Francisco office of USCIS.

When prompted for what kind of appointment option, select ``file an application
for yourself,'' Bogue said.

The easiest way to get the problem fixed would be to file Form N-565, an
application for replacement naturalization/citizenship document. You can
download the form from the USCIS Web site.

You don't have to pay the $220 filing fee, Bogue said. Just make sure to check
block 2(d) of Part 2 on the form, which says ``My certificate is incorrect.''

At your appointment, bring the completed form, your naturalization certificate
with the typo and two standard passport-size photos taken facing camera, not the
old style of a partial profile, Bogue said.

Part 5 of the form will ask you to submit documents supporting your request.
Your birth certificate will suffice, Bogue said, and bring a copy of it for the
USCIS.

Q I came here from Guatemala without authorization in 1993 and applied for
political asylum. I received my work permit within 90 days, and I have continued
to work with the proper authorization since then. I later married a U.S.
citizen. Is my marriage to an American citizen an advantage in my attempt to
seek residency?

Rudy PinedaMountain View

A Being married to a citizen won't automatically help your case, said David
Sheen, an immigration attorney in Newark.

Even though you came to the United States to seek political asylum, you are
treated the same as anyone who entered the country illegally and is applying for
immigration benefits, Sheen said.

So if you would like to apply for residency through your wife, you will have to
return to Guatemala and wait 10 years before being allowed to re-enter. Under
U.S. immigration laws, the penalty for entering the country illegally the first
time is a 10-year bar against re-entry.

Sheen said that if you end up going into a deportation hearing, your wife could
try to persuade an immigration judge to allow you to stay in the United States.
And for that to happen, Sheen said, she would have to prove that your leaving
the country would cause hardship for her and the family.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.
Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews.com or fax (408) 288-8060. You
can also write to: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News, Newsroom, 750
Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You MUST include your name, daytime
phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday

Industry summit urges changes to boost U.S. competitiveness

LENGTH: 494 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Dozens of corporate and academic leaders pressed the Bush administration on
Tuesday for more funding to aid U.S. manufacturing, calling for help in research
and development, science education and immigration reforms to help attract the
world's best scientists and engineers.

``If we don't move and move faster it will be a challenge to maintain our
standard of living and our global leadership,'' said former Michigan Gov. John
Engler, who leads the National Association of Manufacturers.

Participants at the National Summit on Competitiveness urged lawmakers to take
several steps to bolster manufacturers, which have lost about 3 million jobs
since the middle of 2000.

Among the recommendations:

-- Increase federal investment by 10 percent over the next seven years in
physical sciences, engineering and mathematics.

-- Double the number of bachelor's degrees awarded to U.S. students in science,
math and engineering by 2015l; increase the number of science and math teachers
in grades K-12.

-- Reform immigration policies so more foreign-born students can study and
eventually work in science, engineering and mathematics.

Officials joining in the talks at the Commerce Department included Energy
Secretary Samuel Bodman, Labor Secretary Elaine Chao, Commerce Secretary Carlos
Gutierrez and Education Secretary Margaret Spellings.

Many academic and corporate officials said the country's investment in research
in physics, chemistry, math and engineering has flatlined in the past two
decades, leaving the burden on the private sector.

Participants Tuesday described memories of the nation's interest in science and
math education during the Apollo space program in the 1960s.

Thomas Cech, president of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Chevy Chase,
Md., said he benefited from a wave of support for science that followed the
Soviet Union's launch of Sputnik, the first satellite to orbit the Earth.

``I just don't see that happening anymore. At least not in this country,'' Cech
said.

Companies said they have tried to be innovative. Vermeer Manufacturing Co. in
Pella, Iowa, funds summer workshops for math and science teachers, company
president and CEO Mary Vermeer Andringa said.

But many companies said they struggle to find the best talent. Della Williams,
president and CEO of Texas-based Williams-Pyro Inc., said she recruited
foreign-born engineers in 1999 who had graduated from a nearby university.

The company has spent thousands of dollars since then to try to keep the young
engineers -- from India, China, and Mexico -- in the United States.

``It's been five years and we still do not have green cards,'' Williams said.

President Bush has sought a guest-worker program which has stalled in Congress.

Rep. Sherwood Boehlert, R-N.Y., said the panel's recommendations would likely
cost under $10 billion to implement.

------

On the Net:

National Summit on Competitiveness: http://www.usinnovation.org/

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Latin American News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 245 words

MEXICO

Immigration crackdown opposed by top official

A bill that would toughen U.S. immigration enforcement is ``wrong,'' Foreign
Relations Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez said in Mexico City on Monday. And he
called for U.S. groups to lobby against the measure.

The bill, sponsored by Republican Rep. James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, passed
the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday. It would make undocumented migration,
now a civil offense, a federal crime.

``We are trying with great force to avoid'' passage of the bill, Derbez told a
local radio station, according to a transcript of the interview supplied by his
office.

``This type of law that builds walls, puts more people on border patrols, or
hardens the sanctions against those who hire an undocumented person, don't lead
to adequate solutions,'' Derbez said.

Derbez said that during meetings last week with business groups in Chicago, he
suggested that business, community or church groups oppose the measure.

COLOMBIA

Fighters get amnesty for turning in arms

About 2,000 right-wing paramilitary fighters, including a warlord considered a
major drug trafficker by the United States, turned in weapons and helicopter
gunships Monday in one of Colombia's largest disarmament ceremonies in years.

In exchange for disbanding, the fighters from the outlawed United Self-Defense
Forces of Colombia, or AUC, were granted amnesty and will begin receiving a
monthly stipend of $180 from the government.

From the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Court: Sex with a minor isn't a `crime of violence'

LENGTH: 249 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A federal appeals court ruled Monday that a Peruvian immigrant cannot be
deported for having sex with a minor because the act by itself is not a ``crime
of violence.''

The U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals reversed rulings by an immigration judge
and the Board of Immigration Appeals that ordered the deportation of Victor
Valencia, who petitioned for a rehearing of his case.

Valencia, a native and citizen of Peru who lived in California, pleaded guilty
in 1997 to felony unlawful sexual intercourse with a person under 18. He was
sentenced to one year in county jail and five years of probation.

The immigration judge ruled that having sex -- even consensual sex -- with a
minor constitutes a crime of violence because minors are not able to give legal
consent. Under federal law, immigrants can be deported if they are convicted of
a crime of violence.

Based on that finding, the judge ordered Valencia's deportation, which was later
upheld by the Board of Immigration Appeals.

But the San Francisco-based appeals court on Monday ruled that having sexual
intercourse with a minor does not constitute a crime of violence if it does not
involve the use -- or threatened use -- of physical force. The three-judge panel
questioned whether the argument that minors are unable to give legal consent to
sexual relations.

The appeals court, which cannot decide whether or not to deport Valencia, sent
the case back to the Board of Immigration Appeals for rehearing.

The case is Valencia v. Gonzales, 03-72028.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 11, 2006 Wednesday

U.S. attorney general: Court must stop mistreating immigrants

BYLINE: Howard Mintz, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words


Stung by mounting criticism of the nation's immigration courts, Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales on Tuesday took the extraordinary step of launching a
``comprehensive review'' of how the immigration system is handling the pleas of
hundreds of thousands of refugees and others fighting deportation each year.

In memos delivered to every immigration judge in the country, Gonzales expressed
dismay at reports of poor treatment of aliens in the immigration system, citing
``intemperate or even abusive conduct.'' He declared that the work of the
immigration courts ``must improve.'' The immigration courts are under the
control of the attorney general and Justice Department.

Gonzales' call for an examination of the immigration courts has been triggered
by a steady barrage of criticism from immigrant-rights advocates and federal
judges whose courts have been inundated with appeals from refugees and other
non-citizens who insist their immigration cases are getting short shrift.

A Mercury News series in September found non-citizens often get rapid-fire
justice in the immigration courts, particularly since post-Sept. 11 reforms
downsized the Board of Immigration Appeals, which is responsible for reviewing
the work of the nation's 215 immigration judges. The BIA has been deciding many
cases, including life and death pleas for asylum, in perfunctory, boilerplate
orders. Those decisions are being appealed -- and overturned -- in the federal
appeals courts in unprecedented numbers, the Mercury News found.

Now, Gonzales has ordered a top-to-bottom review of the system, more than three
years after former Attorney General John Ashcroft streamlined the immigration
courts to push more cases through faster and clear a backlog as the agency tried
to focus on keeping terrorists out of the country.

``We've been encouraging this sort of thing to happen,'' said Mary Schroeder,
the chief judge of the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
which has been hit hardest by a surge in immigration appeals. ``This system
needs to be improved, there is no doubt about that.''

A spokesman for the Executive Office of Immigration Review, which oversees the
immigration courts, declined to comment on the Gonzales memos, which were sent
to every immigration judge and every appeals board official. Denise Slavin,
president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, told the Associated
Press she welcomes the review.

``We think the premise of the review may be somewhat faulty, but hopefully it
will allow us to get some additional resources,'' Slavin said.

Gonzales did not include specifics in his memos about what prompted the review,
but most of the attention in the past year has focused on the lax review in the
BIA and cases where hasty or mistaken decisions by overworked immigration judges
were allowed to slip through the cracks. Immigration judges handled more than
300,000 cases last year, including tens of thousands where asylum seekers, many
fearing torture or death if returned to their homelands, rely on the immigration
courts as their last hope to stay in the United States.

Gonzales put a deputy attorney general and an associate attorney general in
charge of the review. The memo didn't specify a completion date.

The BIA's cursory handling of immigration cases has had profound consequences,
forcing many non-citizens to put their lives on hold as they wait for years
until they find out whether they will be deported. In one case reviewed by the
Mercury News, the 9th Circuit had to revive the asylum claims of a Guatemalan
refugee whose case was rejected by the BIA without an explanation. She was
granted asylum last summer after six years of uncertainty.

The 9th Circuit, which covers California and eight other Western states, has
been particularly tough on the immigration courts. The Mercury News found that
nearly two-thirds of the most important immigration cases in the West are so
flawed when they emerge from the BIA that they have to be sent back for further
review.

Other federal courts have stepped up the criticism as well. In late December, a
Chicago-based federal appeals court wrote that decisions coming from the
immigration courts ``have fallen below the minimum standards of legal justice.''

Since Ashcroft's changes were put in place, the numbers of immigration appeals
to the federal courts have jumped from 1,760 in 2001 to nearly 11,000 last year.
The 9th Circuit now hears half of all of those appeals, going from 954
immigration cases to nearly 6,000 in 2005.

Immigration experts say it is particularly important for Gonzales to fix the
problems because a new law passed by Congress reduces the ability of the federal
courts to second-guess immigration judges in many asylum cases. In addition, the
Bush administration is pushing immigration changes that could add burdens on the
immigration system.

Lawyers who represent refugees, while skeptical, are hopeful Gonzales will act
on his concerns.

``I think he's heard the hue and cry from many quarters about this,'' said
Deborah Notkin, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com or (408) 286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday

How to make a change in naturalization name

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 455 words


Q What is the process to change my name on the naturalization certificate after
a divorce? I would like to get a passport eventually under my maiden name. What
form do I file and how much will it cost?

Susan GutierrezFremont

A To get a new naturalization certificate, you must file form N-565, according
to San Francisco immigration attorney Rosario Maria Hernandez.

You can download this form from www.uscis.gov, the Web site of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. It will include instructions for filing.

Along with the application form, you must submit your original naturalization
certificate and a copy of the final divorce court order showing that you are
reclaiming your maiden name, Hernandez said.

The fee for submitting this application is $220. You can file it at the local
immigration services office, she said.

For instructions on your passport, visit the U.S. Department of State home page
on passports: http://travel.state.gov/passport/

passport_1738.html.

Click on ``Correcting information in your Passport,'' then click on ``DS-5504,
U.S. Passport Re-Application Form'' for detailed instructions.

There are different forms to file depending on when your name changed as a
result of your divorce, Hernandez said.

New San Jose director: Francis D. Siciliano, 62, a career immigration officer,
has been named officer in charge at San Jose's citizenship and immigration
services office.

Before coming to San Jose, Siciliano worked for three years in the Vienna,
Austria, office. His previous positions include deputy assistant director for
inspections at the Phoenix office of the former Immigration and Naturalization
Service, where he worked for 21 years.

He has also worked as an immigration examiner at the Atlanta district INS
office, and as an immigration inspector at the Naco and Nogales ports of entry.

USCIS informational workshop: An ``Overview of Naturalization'' workshop will be
presented, in English, in San Jose on Wednesday from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Dr.
Roberto Cruz Alum Rock Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave.

The workshop is free, but to save a seat call the reservation line, (408)
918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have questions
considered, you MUST include your name, daytime phone number and city of
residence.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday

How to make a change in naturalization name

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 449 words


Q What is the process to change my name on the naturalization certificate after
a divorce? I would like to get a passport eventually under my maiden name. What
form do I file and how much will it cost?

Susan GutierrezFremont

A To get a new naturalization certificate, you must file form N-565, said San
Francisco immigration attorney Rosario Maria Hernandez.

You can download this form from www.uscis.gov, the Web site of the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services. It will include instructions for filing.

Along with the application form, you must submit your original naturalization
certificate and a copy of the final divorce court order showing that you are
reclaiming your maiden name, Hernandez said.

The fee for submitting this application is $220. You can file it at the local
immigration services office, she said.

For instructions on your passport, visit the U.S. Department of State home page
on passports: http://travel.state.gov/passport/

passport_1738.html.

Click on ``Correcting information in your Passport,'' then click on ``DS-5504,
U.S. Passport Re-Application Form'' for detailed instructions.

There are different forms to file depending on when your name changed as a
result of your divorce, Hernandez said.

New San Jose director: Francis D. Siciliano, 62, a career immigration officer,
has been named officer in charge at San Jose's citizenship and immigration
services office.

Before coming to San Jose, Siciliano worked for three years in the Vienna,
Austria, office. His previous jobs include deputy assistant director for
inspections at the Phoenix office of the former Immigration and Naturalization
Service, for 21 years.

He has also worked as an immigration examiner at the Atlanta district INS
office, and as an immigration inspector at the Naco and Nogales ports.

USCIS informational workshop: An ``Overview of Naturalization'' workshop will be
presented, in English, in San Jose on Wednesday from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Dr.
Roberto Cruz Alum Rock Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave.

The workshop is free, but to save a seat call the reservation line, (408)
918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news. com or fax us at (408)
288-8060. You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury
News, Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have questions
considered, you MUST include your name, daytime phone number and city of
residence.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday

Expect a six-month wait before oath of citizenship

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 534 words


Q My wife and I came to the United States in August 2000 to visit our daughter,
who is a U.S. citizen. After a couple of months here, our daughter and her
husband convinced us to file for a change of status.

Our application was approved in November 2000 and a year later, we received our
green cards.

Can we now file our application for citizenship? How do you go through the
process? How much is the filing fee and how long will the process take?

Rolito C. RoqueFremont

A Your time as permanent residents began on the date you were issued your green
cards, said San Jose immigration lawyer Clifton Wu, of the Immigration Law
Group.

You can find this date on your green card, indicated by the phrase ``resident
since,'' Wu said.

Since your green card was issued in November 2001, you can both apply for
naturalization in September this year. Immigration regulations allow permanent
residents to apply for naturalization up to 90 days before meeting the five-year
residence requirement, he said.

You must complete and submit Form N-400. You can download this form, and a guide
to naturalization, from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
Web site (www.uscis.gov).

The filing fee is $330 and $70 for biometrics.

Within two weeks of filing, expect a receipt from USCIS acknowledging filing of
your applications. The naturalization process takes approximately six months
from filing to oath ceremony, Wu said.

Q I am a U.S. citizen living in San Jose. My sister and her child are Swiss
citizens. She and her husband have asked me to be the legal guardian of her
child in the event of their death. She wants her child to live with my family in
the United States. What kind of visa is required for the child to immigrate?

Claudio FleinerSan Jose

A First, the child must qualify for an immigrant visa to enter the United
States, according to Dina M. Sokhn, a San Jose immigration attorney. Adoption of
a child from abroad is complex and Sokhn suggests that you consult with an
immigration attorney who is familiar with orphan petitions.

Since the child is a Swiss citizen, you will have to satisfy the requirements of
Swiss law and be awarded legal custody with the right to remove the child from
Switzerland, she said.

Sokhn said U.S. immigration has provisions for granting visas in three
circumstances:

If the child is an orphan.

If the child is an orphan and is being brought to the United States to be
adopted.

If the child does not come within the legal definition of orphan and if the
child has already been adopted and the adoptive parents have had legal custody
of the child for at least two years, Sokhn said.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@ mercurynews.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You MUST include your
name, daytime phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday

Expect a six-month wait before oath of citizenship

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 534 words


Q My wife and I came to the United States in August 2000 to visit our daughter,
who is a U.S. citizen. After a couple of months here, our daughter and her
husband convinced us to file for a change of status.

Our application was approved in November 2000 and a year later, we received our
green cards.

Can we now file our application for citizenship? How do you go through the
process? How much is the filing fee and how long will the process take?

Rolito C. RoqueFremont

A Your time as permanent residents began on the date you were issued your green
cards, said San Jose immigration lawyer Clifton Wu, of the Immigration Law
Group.

You can find this date on your green card, indicated by the phrase ``resident
since,'' Wu said.

Since your green card was issued in November 2001, you can both apply for
naturalization in September this year. Immigration regulations allow permanent
residents to apply for naturalization up to 90 days before meeting the five-year
residence requirement, he said.

You must complete and submit Form N-400. You can download this form, and a guide
to naturalization, from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
Web site (www.uscis.gov).

The filing fee is $330 and $70 for biometrics.

Within two weeks of filing, expect a receipt from USCIS acknowledging filing of
your applications. The naturalization process takes approximately six months
from filing to oath ceremony, Wu said.

Q I am a U.S. citizen living in San Jose. My sister and her child are Swiss
citizens. She and her husband have asked me to be the legal guardian of her
child in the event of their death. She wants her child to live with my family in
the United States. What kind of visa is required for the child to immigrate?

Claudio FleinerSan Jose

A First, the child must qualify for an immigrant visa to enter the United
States, according to Dina M. Sokhn, a San Jose immigration attorney. Adoption of
a child from abroad is complex and Sokhn suggests that you consult with an
immigration attorney who is familiar with orphan petitions.

Since the child is a Swiss citizen, you will have to satisfy the requirements of
Swiss law and be awarded legal custody with the right to remove the child from
Switzerland, she said.

Sokhn said U.S. immigration has provisions for granting visas in three
circumstances:

If the child is an orphan.

If the child is an orphan and is being brought to the United States to be
adopted.

If the child does not come within the legal definition of orphan and if the
child has already been adopted and the adoptive parents have had legal custody
of the child for at least two years, Sokhn said.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. You MUST include your
name, daytime phone number and city of residence.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday

Green card won't cover both mom and deaf aunt

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words


Q I am a U.S. citizen. I am planning to apply for a green card for my mother.
She is 75 years old. Her sister, who is a year younger, is deaf from birth. My
mother has been her caretaker and guardian for the past 20 years after my
grandparents died. Is there a way for my mother to apply for my aunt's green
card after she gets her green card so that they can come to the United States
together?

My mother will not be able to come and stay with us without my aunt. Is it
possible to make the case for a green card for my aunt because she is a
dependent to my mother?

Urmila RoyFremont

A It's possible for your mother to apply for your aunt's permanent residence but
it's a long process, said Lucy Fong Lee, an immigration attorney with the San
Francisco firm, Fallon, Bixby, Cheng & Lee.

First, your mother must become a permanent resident. After a mandatory five-year
U.S. residency, Lee said, she then can apply for naturalization. Finally, she
can petition for your aunt, under immigration rules on family-based,
fourth-preference petitions, Lee said.

Unfortunately, there is no way to for your aunt and mother to immigrate
together, Lee said, based solely on the fact that your mother is her sister's
caretaker.

Q One of my relatives became a U.S. citizen some years back. At the time, he was
studying the necessary essentials of becoming a citizen. He said it was required
that he had to be literate in English. Is this correct?

Juan CaudilloSan Jose

A U.S. immigration laws require those applying for naturalization to be
proficient in speaking, reading and writing English to qualify for
naturalization, says Indu Liladhar-Hathi, a San Jose immigration attorney.

There are some exceptions for older immigrants who do not know English, she
said. Older immigrants can still apply for naturalization, Liladhar-Hathi said,
if they are 55 and older and have had a green card for 15 years. Also, an
immigrant who is at least 50 years old and has been a permanent resident, or
green-card holder, for 20 years, also qualifies.

USCIS informational workshops: A workshop on ``How to Petition for an Alien
Relative,'' using Form I-130, will be held in San Jose on Tuesday, Feb. 28, 1 to
3 p.m. It will be in presented in English at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services, 1887 Monterey Road, San Jose.

A second workshop, ``Overview on Naturalization,'' is scheduled on Monday, March
6, at the St. James Senior Center, 199 N. Third St., San Jose.

The workshop will be presented in English with Chinese translation, from 9:30
a.m. to 11:30 a.m.

The workshops are free, but call the reservation line, (408) 918-3986 to save a
seat.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

For questions to be considered, you MUST include your name, daytime phone number
and city of residence. Send your questions to immigration @mercurynews.com or
fax us at (408) 288-8060. You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San
Jose Mercury News, Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

Senate panel OKs barrier for Arizona;
INCREASE APPROVED IN BORDER AGENTS

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 490 words


The Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday approved proposals to erect double-
and triple-layered fencing near Arizona border cities and to sharply boost the
number of agents working along the Mexican border as lawmakers worked to
overhaul U.S. immigration policy.

While those measures received wide bipartisan support, the panel has yet to deal
with contentious issues such as whether to create a guest-worker program,
whether to make illegal presence in the United States a criminal offense and
whether some immigration enforcement laws should be applied retroactively.

The House produced immigration legislation in December that concentrated on
enforcement, tough penalties for immigration infractions and new security
measures.

Thursday's hearing indicated that the Senate is thinking along the same lines.
But in a reflection of the debate's complexity, senators after the hearing were
unable to agree on how many Border Patrol agents they had decided to add every
year, or for how many years the increases would continue.

Judiciary Committee staff said the lawmakers were awaiting transcripts of
Thursday's meeting to see what had been settled.

``The general agreement is that there was an increase in agents, over 10,000,''
said committee representative Blain Rethmeier. The Border Patrol currently has
more than 11,000 agents.

Facing a March 27 deadline set by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.,
the committee has to resolve those questions and others as it works through a
305-page bill that covers border, interior and workplace enforcement; visa
reform; a guest-worker program; and the status of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the country.

The committee passed a dozen amendments Thursday -- its third session to
consider the legislation.

Senators approved a measure by Republican Jeff Sessions of Alabama that would
prohibit municipalities from requiring companies to set up day-labor sites as a
condition of conducting or expanding their businesses.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., sponsored the measure for layered fencing running along
the border near the cities of Douglas, Nogales, Lukeville and Naco and extending
25 miles beyond Naco into the desert. It passed with just one dissenting vote.

In extensive debate over the fence Wednesday, Kyl had defended his proposal
against charges that such barriers are outmoded; he explained that it would
involve at least 150 miles of vehicle barriers.

When Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., challenged him to prove that the new
fencing would not increase the number of immigrants trying to cross into
California, Kyl told her he could not assure her of that.

But he did remind Feinstein -- who ended up supporting the proposal -- that he
helped write the legislation for a fence along the border in San Diego.
Construction of that double barrier was credited with sharply reducing the
number of illegal border crossers into San Diego County -- and driving them
eastward into Arizona.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 14, 2006 Tuesday

Religious leaders rally against proposed immigration bill

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 516 words


Dozens of Bay Area religious leaders -- priests, nuns, rabbis, ministers, and
Buddhist monks -- gathered on the steps of Mission Church at Santa Clara
University this morning to denounce proposed legislation that they say threatens
to turn millions of illegal immigrants into felons.

The proposed immigration reform bill in the Senate's judiciary committee
contains provisions, the group says, that would criminalize the work of
religious service workers helping immigrants -- both legal and illegal -- find
jobs, learn English, and fill out immigration forms.

``There is a hew and a cry from the religious community on this,'' said the Rev.
Carol Been, a Lutheran minister and director of the Interfaith Council on
Religion, Race, Economic and Social Justice.

``It's a moral issue,'' she said.

The local protest comes on the heels of a Lenten week call to his flock by
Cardinal Roger M. Mahony, to pray for tolerant and humane immigration reform. A
growing group of national religious organizations, joining with labor, immigrant
and civil rights groups, have been campaigning to denounce the bill introduced
by U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter (R-PA), and chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.

The Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose group, has
collected about 3,400 postcards signed by Bay Area opponents of the Specter
bill, urging U.S. Sen. Diane Feinstein, (D-CA), who is a member of the judiciary
committee, to reject provisions that would criminalize illegal immigrants, and
religious workers who help them.

Martha Campos, an immigrant from Mexico, and program director for the network,
said the support of the religious community and it's strong stance against the
senate bill was important.

When she immigrated to the United States in 1995, Campos said ``the only place I
felt safe was my church.''

Feinstein has advocated for tougher border security, but she has not defined her
position on the senate bill.

Thich Giac Luong, a Buddhist monk with the Phap Duyen Tinh Xa, a downtown San
Jose Vietnamese Buddhist temple, said the effect of the Specter bill is to
restrict freedoms.

For refugees, who fled to the United States in search of freedom and democracy,
the legislation is not humane, Thich said.

``When the bill criminalizes -- by prosecution, fines and possible imprisonment
-- organizations and individuals who assist undocumented persons,'' said the
Rev. Paul Locatelli, president of Santa Clara University, ``it strikes at the
heart of the mandate to feed the hungry and comfort the victims of injustice.''

Locatelli said the bill is ``a revival of nativist sentiment born of fear like
the 19th century when `No Irish need apply' for employment.''

Been said several religious leaders -- she declined to identify them -- chose
not to attend the rally today because ``they were worried about being profiled''
by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

``To me that shows the depth of people's fear,'' said Sanjeeb Bery, an attorney
with the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 23, 2006 Thursday

Vigil, hunger strike over immigration bill

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 271 words


With a vigil on the steps of the federal courthouse in San Jose, and a hunger
strike in front of the federal courthouse in San Francisco, Bay Area immigrants
and their advocates stepped up their campaign against a compromise bill expected
out of a U.S. Senate committee next week.

``There's a real desire in the community for comprehensive reform,'' said Larisa
Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network
(SIREN) of San Jose. ``People are really concerned that the legislation we're
looking at is anti-immigrant, punitive, costly, un-enforceable, and it's really
threatening our community.''

Today, SIREN will deliver 5,000 postcards signed by Bay Area residents urging
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., to reject legislation that they say targets and
punishes immigrants. Last night, about 75 protesters joined the candlelight
gathering in downtown San Jose. In San Francisco, protesters are staging a
weeklong hunger strike.

``We just need and want a comprehensive bill that's humane and doesn't punish
immigrants,'' said Musa Kamara of African Refugee Community Services in San
Jose.

Advocates fear a bill to be presented Monday by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chair
of the Judiciary Committee, might criminalize illegal immigrants and the social
and religious workers who help them.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, (FAIR) a national group that
supports strict immigration limits and tougher enforcement of immigration laws,
says that the provision would apply only to people who harbor illegal
immigrants.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 24, 2006 Friday

Business owners protest city immigration policy;
POLICE COULD CHECK STATUS OF FELONS

BYLINE: Gillian Flaccus, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words


Business owners in this upscale Orange County city gathered Thursday to voice
their opposition to a new city policy that would give police the authority to
enforce federal immigration law.

The policy, which was narrowly approved by the city council late last year,
would ally Costa Mesa police with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Bureau. It would make Costa Mesa the first city in the nation to train its
police force in federal immigration enforcement.

Police would only be able to check the immigration status of violent career
felons. The plan probably will not take effect for at least several months as
federal officials decide whether to accept the city's proposal.

Business owners, however, said the fear and uncertainty in the immigrant
community had caused losses of up to 35 percent for those who cater to Latino
customers and has provoked protests outside businesses around town.

Vincente Barajas, owner of a bakery called La Espiga de Oro, said his business
had declined 20 percent since the council vote. He said another of his bakeries,
in nearby Fullerton, had not seen a similar decline.

``People think that just because of the way they look, you're going to get
picked up by the police and taken to jail,'' he said. ``Even people from out of
the city are afraid to come in and support us.''

A diverse group of nearly 50 business owners gathered in front of City Hall and
said they would actively work against Mayor Allan Mansoor's re-election in
November. The policy was misguided and had been ``thrust upon'' the city by
Mansoor, said Chris Blank, an attorney who was present as a small-business
owner.

The Chamber of Commerce also opposes the policy, Ed Fawcett, the chamber's
president, said.

Mansoor didn't return calls from the Associated Press. In the past, he has said
the policy targets only the worst criminals and will make the city safer.

Some residents said they supported Mansoor's stance.

Ed Franks, a retiree who owned a sporting goods stores in Costa Mesa, said he
has watched the number of Latino residents in Orange County increase
dramatically in his 45 years there. He said he favored removing immigrants who
were breaking the law.

``They're breaking the law, period,''' he said. ``I don't know what to tell you;
it's black and white.''

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 24, 2006 Friday

President, Senate GOP leader differ on immigration reform

BYLINE: Nedra Pickler, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 654 words


Mexican-born Juan Hernandez looked out at the crowd of more than 10,000 people
that filled the streets of his adopted hometown of Milwaukee on Thursday,
protesting efforts in Congress to crack down on illegal immigrants.

The turnout of people waving U.S., Mexican and other flags showed the high
emotions of the debate that the Senate plans to take up next week.

``We came to work, not to be discriminated against,'' Hernandez said. ``We want
to be equal.''

Hernandez, 38, works at the Omega Family Restaurant, which gave him and more
than a dozen other employees permission to join the protest. Such businesses say
they need cheap immigrant labor and are behind legislation that would make it
easier for foreigners to work legally in the United States.

They have the support of President Bush, who Thursday urged lawmakers to avoid
pitting groups against each other.

``When we discuss this debate, it must be done in a civil way,'' Bush said after
he, Vice President Dick Cheney and top strategist Karl Rove met with groups
allied with him in the debate. ``It must be done in a way that brings dignity to
the process. It must be done in a way that doesn't pit people against another.''

But Bush and the leader of his party in the Senate are starting out with
different ideas about the best way to address the estimated 12 million illegal
immigrants already in the country.

Bush wants Congress to create a program to allow foreigners to gain legal status
for a set amount of time to do specific jobs. When the time is up, they would be
required to return home without an automatic path to citizenship.

Bush said his message to foreigners is: ``If you are doing a job that Americans
won't do, you're welcome here for a period of time to do that job.''

Immigration is a divisive issue for the country and the Republican Party. It
splits two main GOP constituent groups: businesses and social conservatives.

Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., says he understands the economic
concerns being expressed by businesses, but his focus is on the main concern
voiced by the social conservatives: national security.

``The most important thing is that we keep our borders safe, we keep America
safe,'' said Frist press officer Amy Call. ``It's obvious there are drugs, there
are criminals coming through those borders. There are also people from known
terrorist organizations coming through those borders.''

The public appears to be more on the side of tougher border control.
Three-quarters of respondents to a Time magazine poll in January said the United
States is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from entering the country.
Roughly the same amount said they favor a guest-worker program for illegal
immigrants, but 46 percent said those workers should have to return first to
their native countries and apply. About 50 percent favored deporting all illegal
immigrants.

Frist's bill sidesteps the question of temporary work permits and would tighten
borders, add Border Patrol agents and punish employers who hire illegal
immigrants. He has left open the possibility of replacing his legislation with a
measure being drafted by the Senate Judiciary Committee that includes a
guest-worker program.

``We've scheduled two weeks of debate,'' Call said, underscoring the
divisiveness of the issue. ``We need all two weeks.''

Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., backed by labor unions, has said he
will do all he can, including filibuster, to thwart Frist's legislation. So has
Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., who said legislation seeking to criminalize
undocumented immigrants is not in line with Republicans' stated support for
faith and values and ``would literally criminalize the Good Samaritan and
probably even Jesus himself.''

While the Senate Judiciary Committee considers the issue Monday, Bush plans to
attend a citizenship ceremony in Washington.

Associated Press Writer Emily Fredrix contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 27, 2006 Monday

Students, advocates protest immigration reform bill;
HUNDREDS MARCH ON SAN JOSE CITY HALL

BYLINE: Deborah Lohse, Janice Rombeck and Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

LENGTH: 1018 words


Hundreds of San Jose high school and middle school students walked out of their
schools and gathered in front of city hall today to protest pending immigration
reforms. And in San Francisco, more than 1,000 protesters were heading into the
city's main thoroughfare, Market Street, just before noon today.

The San Jose students, many of them of Mexican heritage, bore signs urging
defeat of proposed federal laws they said would make many of their undocumented
parents, relatives or friends into felons. Police said they were expecting
hundreds more students.

The students, who cheered slogans at passing drivers, said the protest had been
organized through posters, text-messaging campaigns and word of mouth. Vanessa
Gonzales, a senior at Lincoln High School, said many students are alarmed at the
prospect that their hard-working parents or grandparents could be deported.

``Families are going to be broken apart,'' said Juan Diaz, a 10th grader from
Lincoln. ``We all have rights as people,'' said Beatrice Soto, also a Lincoln
10th grader.

The students, many of whom said they had never before joined a protest, said
they left school -- sometimes over the objection of their teachers, and
sometimes with their blessing. Adolfo Reyes, the principal of MACSA Academia
Calmecac, stood at the corner of 4th Street and Santa Clara, urging kids not to
go into traffic. ``They came on their own,'' said Reyes. ``I'm just here to
provide safety.''

``We walked all the way from Lincoln,'' said Lilly Yanez, freshman at Lincoln
High School in the Rose Garden neighborhood. ``All the schools are walking out
to symbolize how people have to walk across the border. This country is built on
immigrants.''

About 300 high school and middle school students raised Mexican flags and held
up signs such as ``We Didn't Cross the Borders, the Borders Crossed Us'' and
cheered when drivers of passing cars and trucks honked in support.

About noon, several police officers arrived to monitor the crowd to ``make sure
they don't get hurt,'' said Sgt. Sergio Carabarin. The students were told not to
go into the street or intoCity Hall and to observe traffic signals.

Although the students are truant, Carabarin said any discipline would come from
the schools, not the San Jose Police Department.

Ric Abeyta, assistant superintendent of student services for East Side Union
High School District, said his district's schools had tried to set up ways for
students to talk about immigration issues on campus.

``We understand they need to express their concerns, and we support that,''
Abeyta said.

But at least 100 students at one school, Yerba Buena, still left this morning to
join the protest. Abeyta said officials would talk to students who chose to
leave but would not automatically discipline everyone who walked out.

Pathfinder High School, a charter school in San Jose, decided to close for the
day after almost all of its 55 students left for the protests, principal Teresa
Robinson said. The school doesn't plan to punish students -- many of whom asked
if they'd get detention for leaving -- but warned them to keep their protesting
peaceful.

``When you have friends and classmates who could suffer because of this, who
could be deported because of this, it hits pretty close to home,'' Robinson
said. Some students said they were encouraged or even dropped off at City Hall
by their parents, some of whom attended Saturday's 5,000-person march in East
San Jose.

In San Francisco, the marchers were headed toward the office of Sen. Dianne
Feinstein, who is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee which is debating
the controversial legislation. They shouted ``si, se puede''(yes, we can) and
carried signs such as ``Citizenship Not Prison,'

``It's injustice, these anti-immigration laws,'' said Carlota Flores of East
Palo Alto, a student at Canada College who attended the protest.

Chris Punongbayan, with the Bay Area Immigrant Reform Coalition, said the
marchers want Feinstein to take a position against the legislation.

``She's in a key position and she's the senator from California, home to
millions of immigrants,'' he said.

Some in the crowd said they were high school students who walked out of class,
including Jose Bernal, an 18-year-old senior at Galileo High School.

Bernal said about two dozen students decided they had to march today.

``We can't let those senators do what they want to do,'' Bernal said. ``We want
to have a voice.''

Bernal said many of his relatives are immigrants, several here illegally from
Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. He said in economics and history classes they
discussed the march today and he expected other students to join them later,
even though some teacher warned them not to leave.

Punongbayan said the student walkouts were impromptu and not planned.

About 160 students and teachers from the East Oakland Community High School were
participating in the march. Denzell Williams, one of the students, said they had
organized their walkout through text messages.

``I don't understand why they are kicking the immigrants out of the country,''
Williams said. ``This country is made up of immigrants.''

The Senate's deliberations, scheduled to start Tuesday and extend over the next
two weeks, could reshape a national immigration system that is widely perceived
as failing many foreigners who want to enter the United States, citizens who
expect it to prevent illegal border-crossings and employers who look to it to
for workers to fill jobs that many Americans refuse to do.

The senators will determine whether flaws in that system should be addressed
solely with tough new criminal laws and stringent enforcement measures -- such
as those found in a bill, passed by the House late last year, that triggered
demonstrations Saturday from Chicago to Los Angeles.

Or they may choose to include programs that give employers access to a future
flow of workers, as President Bush has urged, and allow undocumented immigrants
already here to gain legal status.

Check mercurynews.comfor more information on the issue and the protests.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

Students walk out of classes

BYLINE: Deborah Lohse and Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words


Thousands of Bay Area students, including hundreds from San Jose, walked out of
their classrooms Monday morning to protest immigration reforms, demonstrating at
San Jose City Hall, along San Francisco's Market Street and in a few smaller,
school-approved rallies.

The mood turned celebratory by evening, when demonstrators learned at a second
City Hall rally that a Senate committee eliminated the measure that concerned
them most -- a provision that would turn their undocumented parents, relatives
or friends into felons.

``That's good news,'' said Heidi Zuniga, 15, holding a candle along with about
200 immigrants and their supporters. ``That's better for all of us.''

Earlier Monday, Heidi was one of as many as 400 students, many of Mexican
heritage, shouting slogans and carrying signs in an echo of much larger
immigrant rallies across the nation -- 500,000 in Los Angeles, 300,000 in
Chicago -- in recent days.

Most of the noontime City Hall protesters came from schools in the San Jose
Unified and East Side Union districts, including Lincoln and Downtown College
Prep high schools, and Hoover and Joseph George middle schools. Students said
they learned of the demonstrations through posters, word of mouth, text messages
and the Internet site MySpace.com.

``All the schools are walking out to symbolize how people have to walk across
the border,'' said Lilly Yanez, a freshman at Lincoln High School. ``This
country is built on immigrants.''

Some students said they felt compelled for the first time in their lives to risk
school punishment and take a stand in solidarity with immigrant students and
their families.

``My teacher said if we strongly believed in what we believed in, we should go
for it,'' said Jazmin Garcia, a 10th-grader at Downtown College Prep who
demonstrated at San Jose City Hall.

East Side Union High School District tried to encourage students to stay on
campus to express their views -- though about 250 left school for the protests,
said Ric Abeyta, assistant superintendent of student services.

At the district's Silver Creek High School, between 40 and 50 students planned
to walk out in the morning. But Associate Principal Chris Schroeder intercepted
them and offered a choice: Walk out in support of your beliefs and be suspended,
or go back to class and hold a noontime rally. The students returned to class,
he said; more than 125 attended the campus rally.

At Oak Grove High School about 150 waved signs in front of the school and held
an open mic session on the issue in the cafeteria, Abeyta said.

Abeyta said officials would talk to students who left but would not
automatically discipline everyone who walked out.

San Jose Unified students who left campus will have to make up the time in
Saturday school, district spokeswoman Karen Fuqua said. She estimated that fewer
than 50 of the district's students walked out.

Pathfinder High School, a charter school in San Jose, decided to close for the
day after almost all of its 55 students left for the protests, executive
director Teresa Robinson said. The school doesn't plan to punish students --
many of whom asked if they'd get detention for leaving -- but warned them to
keep their protesting peaceful.

``When you have friends and classmates who could suffer because of this, who
could be deported because of this, it hits pretty close to home,'' Robinson
said.

It is not the first time Bay Area students have taken to the streets over
immigrant issues: Some walked out in 2003 as part of La Huelga, a national
strike day to protest the treatment of Mexican-Americans and Mexican immigrants,
and large numbers protested in 1994 over Proposition 187, which would have
denied public benefits to illegal immigrants in California and was later ruled
unconstitutional.

About 1,000 protesters in San Francisco, many of them students who walked out of
their San Francisco and Oakland high school classrooms, clogged several blocks
of Market Street at lunchtime as they headed to Sen. Dianne Feinstein's downtown
San Francisco office. ``It's injustice, these anti-immigration laws,'' said
Carlota Flores of East Palo Alto, a student at Cañada College who attended the
San Francisco protest.

In San Jose, some students said they knew it was serious to leave school and
were prepared to accept any consequences.

``If our parents hadn't immigrated here, none of us would be here,'' said Diego
Gomez, a 10th-grader at Downtown College Prep.

His mother, Teresa Castellanos, didn't know that her son was going to the
protest Monday, but she did not object. ``I support him in it,'' she said. Upon
learning that police had estimated that up to 400 students had come to be heard,
Castellanos added, ``How beautiful.''

Mercury News Staff Writers Becky Bartindale, Janice Rombeck, Mary Anne Ostrom,
Jessie Mangaliman and Luis Zaragoza contributed to this story. Contact Deborah
Lohse at (408) 275-0140 or dlohse@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday

Immigration protests become living history

BYLINE: Christina Almeida and Jeremiah Marquez, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 398 words


Teachers and students are turning the walkouts that have emptied high schools
across Southern California into a real-life civics lesson about national
immigration policy and even the nuances of civic duty itself.

In Christian Quintero's social studies classroom, the conversation flowed easily
from English to Spanish -- but the topics his students discussed didn't have
easy answers.

``So do you think yesterday was a good thing or a bad thing?'' Quintero asked of
Monday's walkout, which involved an estimated 36,000 students in Los Angeles
County, including many from Belmont High School where he teaches.

``A good thing!'' a boy in the back shouted.

``Why?''

``Because we let them know what's up,'' the boy said.

Indeed, the protests landed the Los Angeles Unified School District -- the
nation's second largest, and 73 percent of its students Latino -- in the debate
on congressional proposals to crack down on immigration.

Wednesday was relatively quiet after two days of protests that began with
blocked freeways and pleas from the mayor to go back to class, and escalated
Tuesday to school lock-downs and truancy citations. On the popular Web site
MySpace.com, where many students have said they went for protest instructions,
the word was to wait until Friday for the next mass protest.

Meanwhile, in classrooms and hallways some students have turned to reflection:
Were the protests effective? Were they the right thing to do?

Some teachers seized the opportunity to make the connection between the textbook
and real life. Some offered lessons on how a bill becomes law. In one school,
lunchtime morphed into an organized forum on immigration policy.

The shape of the discussions was up to individual schools and teachers.

``There is an opportunity to take this and fold it into what students are
learning in their government, history and civics classes,'' said district
spokeswoman Susan Cox.

Keeping kids in class also helps the 746,000-student district. With two days of
walkouts, the Los Angeles district alone could lose more than $900,000 in state
funds based on student attendance.

Some students were surprised to learn theirs wasn't the first mass student
protest in Los Angeles history. Belmont High history teacher Ernesto Torres told
them about the landmark 1968 Chicano walkouts to protest poor learning
environments in East Los Angeles.

``You are a part of history now,'' Torres said.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

S.J. hosts Asian-Americans;
DEMOCRATIC PARTY SEEKS GROUP'S SUPPORT ON IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words


With immigration reform front and center, Asian-American Democrats from around
the country are gathering in San Jose this weekend for a first-of-its-kind
conference to increase their influence at the voting booth.

The meeting of more than 400 elected officials and party activists, which starts
today, comes at a crucial time: While historically Asian-Americans have backed
Democrats, the GOP is making small inroads. At the same time, Democratic Party
leaders say the fierce debate over immigration could help draw new
Asian-American support from those opposed to controversial anti-immigrant
legislation -- including a GOP-backed House bill that would make illegal
immigrants felons.

U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, the first Asian-American to serve as a vice
chair of the Democratic National Committee, brought the summit to San Jose.

``I've always had a vision to get all the Asian-American elected officials
together,'' Honda said. ``Quite frankly, Howard Dean said, `It's a good idea.
Make it happen.' ''

The goal of the summit is ``to reconnect the DNC with our grass roots,'' Honda
said, and for many of the participants, the debate over how to treat illegal
immigrants resonates strongly.

``A lot of us are at best third-generation, and a lot are first-generation,'' he
said. ``We recognize when people are being scapegoated.''

Dean, the DNC chairman, said in an interview that immigration reform is a key
issue -- along with education and entrepreneurship -- that he hopes will unify
the diverse Asian community behind his party this election season. Dean will
address the group at the downtown San Jose Marriott Hotel on Saturday.

``It's really a nasty anti-immigration bill, which reflects poorly on the views
of the Republican Party. . . . Most think it's about only Hispanics, but it's
not,'' said Dean, who will appear today in Oakland to talk about the Democrats'
preference for increasing worker visas and strengthening border enforcement.

Some Asian-American activists say while they have been wooed by Democrats in the
past, they hope this time party leadership will act on their priorities, even if
they make up only about 4 percent of the national electorate. In California,
their participation has approached 10 percent in recent elections.

``Asian-American voters are up for grabs, and the Democratic Party has to see
beyond the numbers and recognize that they are fast-growing in the key electoral
states, including California,'' said David Lee, executive director of San
Francisco-based Chinese American Voter Education Committee.

Unlike years of effort to draw Latino supporters, Lee said, ``no such seeds have
been sown for Asian-Americans, and the Democratic Party is missing a very great
opportunity.''

Dean acknowledged previous failings to build up support but said he believed
``there's been a huge change of heart'' among many Asian-Americans.

According to a 2004 National Annenberg Election Survey, 37 percent of Asian
respondents said they thought of themselves as Democrats; 25 percent said
Republican; and 28 percent identified as independent.

Dean said he measures the party's strength with Asian-Americans by the fact that
the vast majority of Asian-American elected officials, most of whom serve in
local positions, are Democrats. In Congress, six of the seven members of Asian
descent are Democrats and the count in the California Legislature is six of
nine.

Republicans say they are not ceding the fast-growing population to Democrats.
Republican National Committee Chairman Ken Mehlman has been holding round-table
discussions with Asian-Americans to highlight the Bush administration's
commitment to policies to promote small businesses, education and
home-ownership.

``We've already hit the ground running,'' said Tara Wall, an RNC spokeswoman.
The discussions have been held in Washington state, Pennsylvania, Hawaii and
Minnesota, but not in California.

California Democrats say their party needs to do much more outreach to
Asian-Americans, especially recent immigrants.

``I don't think we're doing a particularly good job,'' said Fremont Assemblyman
Alberto Torrico, whose heritage is Japanese and Bolivian, especially when it
comes to registering new immigrants.

The San Jose Asian-American leadership summit this weekend will also highlight
the emergence of Indo-Americans, who are beginning to exercise new clout in the
leadership ranks of the Democratic Party. Among those planning to attend is
Kamil Hasan, a Saratoga venture capitalist who Dean just appointed as a DNC
member-at-large.

Ro Khanna, a lawyer from San Mateo who was appointed by House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi to chair the Indo-American Council for Democrats in Congress, said
party leaders are listening to their issues, not just tapping them for campaign
contributions.

Already, he noted, ``we've had a role in shaping the innovation agenda,''
unveiled by Pelosi and which calls for more investment in science and math
education, alternative energy and universal broadband.

``Indian-Americans in the next decade are going to be a major factor in the
Democratic Party,'' Khanna said.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Idea to shift deportation, asylum cases still pursued

BYLINE: Howard Mintz, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420 words


A proposal to dramatically change the way the federal courts handle thousands of
appeals from immigrants fighting deportation and refugees seeking asylum remains
alive in the Senate's fierce immigration debate.

The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing Monday on changes
backed by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the committee's chair. Specter agreed last
week to strip the plan from immigration legislation sent to the Senate floor,
but has not abandoned the idea of an unprecedented shift in federal court review
of immigrants' pleas for refuge.

At the core of Specter's plan is a proposal to transfer all immigration appeals
from federal courts around the country to the Washington, D.C.-based Federal
Circuit Court of Appeals, which currently specializes in patent and bankruptcy
cases. Immigration-rights advocates warn that the Federal Circuit is
ill-equipped to handle the crush of immigration appeals and worry that the move
will make it much tougher for immigrants to get a fair hearing in the federal
courts.

The proposal alarms judges and lawyers, who point out that the federal appeals
courts have become the chief safety net for catching mistakes in the immigration
system since the Bush administration downsized the Board of Immigration Appeals,
the top branch in the immigration courts. A Mercury News series last year found
that the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which hears the majority of the
nation's immigration cases each year, frequently overturns the immigration
courts because of flaws in asylum and deportation decisions.

Specter backs the shift to get more uniform immigration rulings, and is
proposing adding three judges to the Federal Circuit and also beefing up the
Board of Immigration Appeals to catch mistakes earlier. But Specter acknowledged
last week that ``there is considerable controversy'' surrounding his
legislation.

The tentative witness list for Monday's hearing includes a number of federal
appeals court judges, including San Francisco-based 9th Circuit Judge Carlos
Bea, who supports Specter's proposal. The 9th Circuit's chief judge opposes the
plan, as does the U.S. Judicial Conference, the policymaking arm of the federal
courts.

The Intellectual Property Owners Association and patent lawyers, many of whom
represent Silicon Valley companies in high-stakes patent feuds in the Federal
Circuit, also oppose the plan because of concerns immigration cases would
overwhelm the specialized court.

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com or (408) 286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

More immigration marches in several cities

BYLINE: David B. Caruso, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 616 words


Thousands of immigrant-rights supporters formed a line stretching more than a
mile long Saturday as they marched across the Brooklyn Bridge, waving flags from
more than a dozen countries as they demonstrated against immigration reform in
Congress.

Heralded by a cacophony of trumpets, whistles and drums, the crowd of mostly
Latin Americans gathered in downtown Brooklyn and trudged a path laden with
symbols of the city's immigrant strength on their way to a plaza in lower
Manhattan.

The marchers mustered in a neighborhood settled by the Dutch, crossed a bridge
designed by a German, and finished in a square at the edge of Chinatown in an
area that once held the Irish slums depicted in the 2002 film ``Gangs of New
York.''

On the way, they passed the Statue of Liberty, hot dog carts run by Middle
Easterners, taxis driven by Russians and police officers speaking Chinese.

More than 10,000 people flooded Foley Square, turning it into a sea of colorful
banners and echoing noise. The crowd came dressed in the colors of Mexico,
Uruguay and Ecuador, but just as many draped themselves in red, white and blue.

``If you hurt immigrants you are hurting America,'' read a sign held by one
marcher. Others read ``We are your economy'' and ``I cleaned up ground zero.''

Also on Saturday, in Costa Mesa, more than 1,000 people protested the crackdown
on illegal immigrants.

``Aiding my kids should not be a crime,'' said Dagoberto Zavala, 52, who
emigrated from El Salvador to the Santa Ana area, and said he brought his two
children into the United States illegally.

Last year, the Costa Mesa City Council approved a policy that would give local
police in certain cases the authority to enforce federal immigration law. The
plan, which would be the first in the nation, still must be approved by federal
officials.

The crowd in Costa Mesa was a far cry from the several thousand that organizers
had hoped for, and from the estimated 500,000 to 1 million who descended on
downtown Los Angeles last weekend for an immigrants' rights march. This
demonstration was not as heavily promoted, and a burst of rain showers in the
morning may have kept the numbers down.

``We think this is a good follow to the March 25 demonstration, and it is on the
way to May 1, which will be a day without immigrants working, shopping or going
to school nationwide,'' said Nativo Lopez, president of the Mexican American
Political Association, the main organizer of the protest.

The protest came during a week that, in addition to the Los Angeles rally,
included hundreds of middle school and high school students staging walkouts
across California. In recent weeks, protesters also took to the streets in
several other cities, including Chicago, Phoenix and Houston.

Marchers were protesting legislation already approved in the House, which would
make it a felony to be in the United States without the proper immigration
paperwork.

Competing legislation under consideration in the Senate would take an opposite
approach and give the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the
United States a chance at citizenship.

``We came to say that we're here,'' said George Criollo, who arrived in New York
a decade ago from Cuenca, Ecuador. ``We have to speak, legal or illegal. We have
to speak about this issue.''

Criollo, who said his family was in the United States illegally, feared that
legislation could lead to his deportation or jailing.

In Oklahoma City on Saturday, more than 5,000 people jammed into the Capitol's
south plaza to protest proposals in the Legislature designed to stop illegal
immigrants from receiving tax-supported services, such as Medicaid and food
stamps.

The New York Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

An old American story

BYLINE: Ron Hutcheson, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1251 words


Both sides in the emotional debate over immigration agree on at least one thing:
This is a fight over what it means to be an American.

The passions that are being unleashed in street protests, on talk radio and in
Congress are as old as the American Dream. America may be a nation of
immigrants, but Americans sometimes recoil from foreigners with different
languages, religions, cultures and skin colors.

Even Benjamin Franklin, one of the most open-minded founding fathers, objected
to foreign newcomers -- in his case, from Germany.

``Why should Pennsylvania, founded by the English, become a colony of aliens who
will shortly be so numerous as to Germanize us instead of our Anglifying them?''
he asked in a 1751 essay.

More than 170 years later, President Calvin Coolidge put it more succinctly:
``America must be kept American.''

Yet even ardent advocates of tighter immigration controls acknowledge the
contributions that immigrants have made, and continue to make, to this diverse
society. Polls show deeply conflicting views about immigration. A Pew Research
Center poll released Thursday indicated that Americans are less likely to think
that immigrants strengthen the country than they are to consider them a burden.

``People are seeing immigration as a negative. That's a shame, because if it's
done right, it's a positive,'' said Ron Woodard, the director of NC Listen, a
North Carolina group that favors tougher immigration policies. ``Americans
believe in reasonable legal immigration, but they have major heartburn with
people breaking the law.''

Although the current debate over immigration is in many ways a replay of past
battles, there are some new twists.

The terrorist attacks in 2001 have heightened concerns about border security.
Globalization and the loss of manufacturing jobs have increased economic
anxieties. Multiculturalism and the emphasis on tolerance for alternative
lifestyles have helped fuel doubts about the durability of what are considered
traditional American values.

If all that weren't enough, political polarization, TV's talk-show culture and
the fractious Internet blogosphere have made a hot-button issue even more
combustible.

``The middle ground gets lost. Anybody who talks about a sensible middle ground
gets devoured by the extremes on both sides,'' said Edward O'Donnell, a
professor at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass., who specializes in
Irish-American history. ``It's either immigration is a plague, or wide-open,
unhindered immigration and wide-scale amnesty is the answer.''

Americans who are tolerant of mass immigration express confidence that the
nation's economy and culture can absorb the newcomers.

``I see immigrants as people who are coming to the United States to cast their
lot with Americans,'' said Alan Kraut, a professor at American University in
Washington and the author of three books on immigration. ``What we hear from
some quarters is that these immigrants are somehow different, the notion that
they will not assimilate. I think that expresses far too little faith in the
power of American culture.''

America has dealt successfully with large-scale immigration before. The nation's
doors were wide open to many immigrants during the 1800s. By the turn of the
century, roughly 15 percent of the nation's residents were foreign-born. Today,
the 33 million foreign-born residents account for about 11 percent of the
population.

Yet previous waves of immigration led to nativist movements and crackdowns.
Irish Roman Catholics faced scorn and abuse in the mid-19th century, and
Congress prohibited immigration from China in 1882. The surge at the turn of the
20th century, and fears about radicals and anarchists, led to the first broad
clampdown on immigration.

``Just like in the early 1900s, people are realizing today that things have
gotten out of hand,'' said Woodard of NC Listen. ``We need to bring it back in
balance.''

More and more Americans are feeling the impact of immigration, even in
communities that traditionally had few foreign-born residents.

In 1990, fewer than 4 percent of people in Charlotte, N.C., came from other
countries. Now, 11 percent are foreign-born. The population shift coincided with
the decline of North Carolina's textile and furniture industries.

``It's bad enough that your job went to Mexico. Now you've got illegal Mexicans
coming into the state, and you have to compete with them. It's a double
whammy,'' Woodard said. ``People are saying, `Enough is enough.' ''

The influx of Latino foreigners -- more than half of foreign-born residents are
from Latin America -- is contributing to another demographic shift. Ethnic
minorities, both citizens and non-citizens, are now the majority in Miami, Los
Angeles, Houston and San Francisco. New York and Washington will join the list
soon.

Most advocates of tighter immigration controls say their concerns don't have
anything to do with race or ethnicity. They say they worry about the nation's
ability to absorb the latest wave of foreigners.

``It's not 1910 anymore. We have an economy that doesn't offer the same kind of
upward mobility for people with low education,'' said Mark Krikorian, the
executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. ``We've changed, not
the immigrants.''

Krikorian, whose grandparents came from Armenia, said he also worried that
cultural changes had made it harder for immigrants to absorb American values. He
pointed to demonstrators waving Mexican flags at recent pro-immigration rallies
as evidence of the decreased emphasis on assimilation.

``My Mom had to memorize the Gettysburg Address. What are the kids in the
Unified Los Angeles School District learning? They sure as heck aren't being
Americanized,'' he said. ``Is the nation going to continue in its current form
or not? It's all a question of who we are.''

Krikorian, Woodard and other advocates of tighter immigration controls avoid
talk of race or ethnicity, and shun those who view the issue in those terms.
Still, there's an ugly side to the debate.

Vernon Robinson, a Republican congressional candidate in North Carolina and a
former city council member in Winston-Salem, is running a blatantly
anti-immigrant campaign.

One of his radio ads uses the theme of the old ``Twilight Zone'' television show
to play off fears of an ``alien'' invasion.

``The aliens are here, but they didn't come in a spaceship. They came across our
unguarded Mexican border by the millions -- illegally,'' the ad says. ``They
filled our criminal courtrooms and invaded our schools. They sponge off the
American taxpayer by clogging our welfare lines and our hospital emergency
rooms.''

But many Americans see a little of themselves in the latest wave of immigrants.

Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., cited his Italian roots during Senate debate last
week on immigration legislation. His Italian-born mother was classified as an
illegal immigrant and briefly arrested during World War II because of confusion
over her citizenship.

``More are named Martinez than Domenici today -- and Salazar and Chavez. And
many of their first names are not like mine, which was Pietro, but they are
Enrique and Carlos,'' he told his colleagues.

O'Donnell, the immigration historian, sees the current debate as the latest
chapter in the American story.

``It is probably our greatest national legacy, accepting the huddled masses, but
it doesn't come without risks and challenges and problems,'' he said. ``It's the
price that you pay for being a diverse society. We're never going to stop
debating immigration.''

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration showdown likely;
SENATE DEMOCRATS MOVE TO FORCE VOTE

BYLINE: Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 206 words


With Republicans still deeply divided, Senate Democrats moved Tuesday to force a
showdown over immigration reform, filing a motion to end debate and vote on a
bill that provides the option of citizenship to ``guest workers'' and illegal
immigrants already in the United States.

The move means the Senate will have to vote Thursday on whether to end debate.
That in turn could force action on final passage three days later for the bill
now on the Senate floor, which has White House support but does not command a
majority among Republicans in either chamber of Congress.

``We've got to move this to a showdown vote,'' said Sen. Richard Durbin of
Illinois, the Senate's second-ranking Democratic leader. ``The members on the
other side of the aisle will have to make a choice. I think the momentum is with
us.''

In essence, Democrats sought to take advantage of GOP divisions by forcing a
vote on the relatively moderate approach now on the Senate floor before the
Republican majority could hammer out agreement on a more restrictive measure.

Although many Republicans have not made up their minds, fewer than half are
believed to support the current bill, which was passed by the Judiciary
Committee last week with some Republican support.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Migrant march set Monday;
MORE RALLIES PLANNED ACROSS THE COUNTRY

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 619 words


A new round of demonstrations for immigrant rights will take place across the
country on Monday, including an afternoon march in the heart of East San Jose.

Calling it a ```National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice,'' a loose
coalition of religious organizations, labor unions, student organizations and
ethnic and immigrant advocacy groups intend to keep the spotlight on immigration
reform and broaden the base of support to include Asians, Africans and others.

``We want to respect the dignity of all immigrants,'' said Martha Campos, one of
the organizers and a director with the non-profit Services, Immigration Rights
and Education Network in San Jose. ``Immigration is not just an issue for
Latinos.''

The march through East San Jose is aimed at diversifying the fast-spreading
movement. The 3 p.m. gathering at King and Story roads will include invocations
by several clergy of various faiths. Marchers will then walk toward City Hall
along Alum Rock Avenue, stopping for talks on the contributions of Latino,
Filipino and Vietnamese immigrants. The marchers expect to arrive at City Hall
about 7 p.m. and end with a brief rally.

Around the nation, demonstrations are planned for 65 cities inspired by the U.S.
Senate's debate over a controversial national immigration bill. In the nation's
capital, one rally will be held at the Washington Monument, where an organizer
predicted 100,000 people will gather.

There will be a prayer vigil in Los Angeles and a ``day without Hispanics'' work
stoppage in the upscale resort town of Telluride, Colo. In Boston, Irish,
Russian, Brazilian, Chinese, Somali and Ethiopian immigrants will march.
Steelworkers along with students and faculty members from the University of
Notre Dame will march in South Bend, Ind.

The discussion of a bill that could contain restrictions on naturalization and
employment for undocumented workers has led hundreds of thousands of Latinos to
take to the streets.

``The sleeping Latino giant is finally awake,'' Jaime Contreras, president of
the National Capital Immigrant Coalition, said. ``This will be the largest
demonstration by immigrants ever held in this country.''

Involvement by previously apolitical elements of the Latino community may prove
a watershed in the political and cultural evolution of Latinos. The group's
political influence has lagged behind its growth into the nation's largest
minority.

Over the past two months, Spanish-language radio hosts have emerged as a driving
force behind the immigration rallies. Once relatively rare, the number of
Spanish-language media outlets across the nation have grown exponentially over
the past decade and have joined other organizations -- churches and social
groups -- that have sustained daily life in the Latino community .

``I'm not sure anybody totally understands this phenomenon . . . but we are
happily stunned,'' said Cecilia Munoz, vice president for policy at the National
Council of La Raza, a civil rights organization based in Washington. ``We're all
very aware that this is history in the making, and the country will be
transformed by it.''

Many Latinos say they were first spurred to action by a House bill passed in
December that would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally or to
provide assistance to illegal immigrants.

``We've always been separate and marginalized,'' said Carlos Rivas, 46, a
construction worker born in El Salvador who lives in Fairfax City, Va. ``But I
think the racism in this country has grown so much it's time to say, `Enough!' .
. . Our community needs us to show that we're here, and we're not criminals.''

The Washington Post contributed to this report. Contact Joe Rodriguez at
jrodriguez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5767.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Senate immigration deal stalls;
PLAN FALTERS OVER BIPARTISAN CONCERNS, POSSIBLE FALLOUT

BYLINE: Maura Reynolds, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words


An immigration overhaul plan that only hours before seemed on its way to Senate
passage stalled late Thursday, raising the prospect that no action would be
taken at least until after the two-week Easter recess that begins today.

At a joint appearance Thursday morning, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist,
R-Tenn., and Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., had all but declared victory
for a compromise plan that would have granted a path to legal status and
citizenship for most of the estimated 12 million immigrants now in the United
States illegally.

``We've had a huge breakthrough,'' Frist said.

``We can't declare victory. But we've moved a long ways down the road,'' Reid
said.

But snags soon surfaced among Democrats and Republicans -- each apparently
concerned about substantive details of the overhaul plan and potential political
fallout from voting on an issue that has provoked strong feelings as well as
mass protests across the country.

Looming over the process was the fact that thousands of Latino and other
immigrants have poured into the streets to protest a more restrictive approach
to immigration, and additional rallies are scheduled Monday. How those
demonstrations will influence public opinion is not yet clear.

``The momentum can move either way,'' said Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., the
second-ranking Senate Democrat. ``Who knows what else will face us when we
return?''

For most Democrats, who were prepared to support the compromise, the primary
concern was that key provisions in the pending Senate bill might be changed or
eliminated when House and Senate delegates meet to reconcile differences between
the two bills. The House version contains what many Democrats believe are
draconian measures. Members of the conference committee will have wide latitude
to shape the measure that goes back to each chamber for a final vote.

Since Democrats are in the minority in both houses, and the committee will be
dominated by Republicans, they are fearful of being presented with a bill they
would find unacceptable but could not stop.

``The biggest concern on the part of the Democrats is, how do we preserve this
compromise all the way through the process?'' said Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill.
``There is a lot of experience here with good bills going into conference
committee and transforming.''

``I think we're a long way from getting any kind of compromise that can
survive'' the House, said Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo.

On the Republican side, concern appeared to fall into two categories: senators
who favored a more restrictive approach to the path to legal status and
citizenship, and senators who might support some compromise but wanted to test
the waters back in their home states before voting.

The Senate proposal, drafted by Sens. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., and Chuck Hagel,
R-Neb., offers paths to citizenship for illegal immigrants who entered the
country before January 2004 as long as they meet a string of requirements,
including learning English. It also includes measures to enhance border security
and increase employer sanctions in an effort to stem the tide of illegal
immigrants seeking work.

The Hagel-Martinez proposal would differentiate between recent arrivals and
illegal immigrants who have been in the country for five years or longer. The
more recent arrivals would have to leave the United States as part of the
process of legalizing their status; illegal immigrants in the country for five
years or more could complete the process without recrossing the border.

Democratic leaders said they were seeking a guarantee from Frist that members of
the Senate Judiciary Committee -- who passed a more permissive version of the
bill last week -- would be the Senate negotiators with the House.

Congressional procedures require the House and Senate to agree on a joint
version of every bill, known as a ``conference report,'' that must be approved
by both chambers before it is sent to the president for his signature.

Immigration advocates echoed the concern expressed by Democrats.

``In order for this new deal to be acceptable to those of us who advocate on
behalf of immigrants, we need assurances that the integrity of the bipartisan
breakthrough will hold throughout conference negotiations with the House,'' a
coalition of groups said in a joint letter.

The groups included the National Council of La Raza, the Asian American Justice
Center, the American Immigration Lawyers Association, the National Immigration
Forum, the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) and Unite Here
International Union.

President Bush, who has repeatedly called for a guest-worker program but has
maintained a pointed silence on the details of immigration reform, urged the
Senate to complete its work on the bill but did not weigh in on what the bill
should include.

``I'm pleased that Republicans and Democrats in the United States Senate are
working together to get a comprehensive immigration bill,'' Bush said during a
visit to North Carolina.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Immigration views mixed;
VALLEY OPINIONS VARY WIDELY ON NATIONAL LEGISLATIVE REFORM PROPOSALS

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 599 words


Try to take the Bay Area's pulse on immigration reform and one quickly finds
there is no one-size-fits-all opinion. On a day when it appeared Senate
Democrats and Republicans in Washington may have reached a compromise, local
residents sounded off with lots of different opinions.

Carol Joyal, a retired school teacher from Los Gatos, thinks Silicon Valley
homeowners are ``their own worst enemy'' when they expect to receive cheap lawn
service and thinks the legislative compromise to give some illegal immigrants a
path to citizenship too lenient.

``My husband washes our own cars, and I think Americans have to take more
responsibility,'' said Joyal, who chairs the Immigration Reform Network of
Silicon Valley. ``If they are going to pay $40 a month for yard service, they
are part of the problem.''

Thursday afternoon, about 200 students from San Mateo County high schools --
Menlo-Atherton, Castlemont and Sequoia among them -- marched to Redwood City
Hall after a short school day to support friends and families who would be
affected by new federal policies.

``Some students were worried about joining in, and I told them to listen to
their heart,'' said Braulio Gonzales, a junior at Menlo-Atherton High who
spearheaded the gathering.

Inquiries about what the legislation may mean for immigrants seeking citizenship
have been flowing into San Jose's Center for Employment Training, said Adriana
Gonzalez, director of the center's immigration and citizenship program.

``People are very confused, asking if they or their relatives can now just apply
and become a citizen,'' Gonzalez said. The answer, she said, ``is we don't know
what the law will be and for now you must have a green card first.''

The Senate version would set rules for naturalization based on how long an
illegal immigrant has lived in the country, with those here the longest having
the best chance at permanent legal status.

Activists also chimed in Thursday. Jose Sandoval, an organizer of a
pro-immigrant march that drew 5,000 protesters to downtown San Jose late last
month, says the Bay Area needs immigrant labor and believes ``everyone should be
allowed to become citizens.''

In San Francisco, several of the city's elected officials -- led by Mayor Gavin
Newsom -- held a news conference reminding people that since 1989, the city has
considered itself a sanctuary for illegal immigrants. City employees and
contract workers are instructed not to check on the legal status of people
seeking city services.

Newsom even slammed his Democratic colleagues in the Senate for supporting a
compromise ``not based on reality'' because millions of immigrants will still be
forced to leave the country, even if they may reapply later for a limited number
of ``green cards.'' ``San Francisco is just not going to cooperate,'' with the
proposed federal legislation, he said.

Several people said they found themselves in between the extreme positions as
Washington struggles to write the most far-reaching immigrant reform legislation
in more than a decade.

``I support the compromise,'' said Joe Pandit of San Jose, a retired civil
engineer. ``But we must stem the flow of undocumented workers.''

Lester Lee, a Chinese-American Silicon Valley businessman, said while he is not
familiar with the details of the most recent legislative proposals, he called it
nothing more than ``a political compromise'' and worried immigrants from places
other than Latin America were being left out of the debate.

Mercury News Staff Writer Luis Zaragoza contributed to this report. Contact Mary
Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

Immigration bill left hanging as senators leave on vacation;
PROMISING COMPROMISE COLLAPSES IN RANCOR

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words


Congress' effort to overhaul the nation's immigration laws and shore up its
borders appeared in peril Friday after a Senate compromise collapsed amid angry
partisan blame.

After weeks of concerted action to find a consensus on how to deal with up to 12
million illegal immigrants now in the country, senators left on a two-week
recess with no clear schedule for resuming work on the legislation.

Leading supporters of the compromise bill were downcast. Several acknowledged
that Congress might not pass an immigration bill before its two-year session
ends in early October.

``I think they've diminished dramatically,'' Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., said of
the chances of resolving the immigration issue. Later, he vowed: ``We're going
to come back to this. It's not going to be the end of the road.''

The mood had been decidedly different 24 hours earlier, when euphoric Senate
leaders from both parties announced the compromise, which was co-sponsored by
Martinez and Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb. The bill seemed headed for Senate passage.

But a procedural impasse that developed late Thursday between Senate Republicans
and Democrats over whether the bill could be amended prevented a final vote.
Conservative Republicans who opposed the bill wanted to offer revisions, and
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., agreed. But Democrats, fearing that
amendments would gut the compromise, refused to go along.

``We got a food fight instead of a bill,'' said Frank Sharry, the executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, which supported the compromise.
``We're quite concerned that this has become a political football rather than a
policy debate.''

The delay cast uncertainty on President Bush's call for a comprehensive overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws and undoubtedly will intensify a public outcry
for swift congressional action on one of the nation's most emotional issues.
Latino groups are organizing demonstrations in scores of cities Monday to
protest a version of the bill that the House of Representatives passed, which
would toughen laws against illegal immigrants.

Senate leaders said they expected to resume work on the compromise after
Congress returns April 24, but the next steps were unclear late Friday. The bill
could go to the Judiciary Committee for further deliberation or directly to the
Senate floor, according to Senate aides. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the
Judiciary Committee chair, said he planned to work with staff members through
the recess to lay the groundwork for further action.

Frist declined, however, to specify a timetable for deliberations by the full
Senate, and some members expressed fears that the bill could be nudged aside by
other issues, including a $106.5 billion supplemental appropriations bill that
includes hurricane relief and money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

``It's going to be a tough uphill battle now,'' said Sen. Richard Durbin,
D-Ill., the Senate's assistant Democratic leader.

The Martinez-Hagel compromise embraced the basic concepts of a comprehensive
bill that the Judiciary Committee had approved March 27 and a similar measure
sponsored by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

It would establish a guest-worker program and provisions to put nearly 10
million illegal immigrants on a path toward permanent legal status, while
requiring those in the country two years or less to return home.

It also would toughen enforcement and border security, boosting fines on the
employers of illegal immigrants and adding 12,000 Border Patrol agents over the
next five years.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration bill left hanging as senators leave on vacation;
PROMISING COMPROMISE COLLAPSES IN RANCOR

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 563 words


Congress' effort to overhaul the nation's immigration laws and shore up its
borders appeared in peril Friday after a Senate compromise collapsed amid angry
partisan blame.

After weeks of concerted action to find a consensus on how to deal with up to 12
million illegal immigrants now in the country, senators left on a two-week
recess with no clear schedule for resuming work on the legislation.

Leading supporters of the compromise bill were downcast. Several acknowledged
that Congress might not pass an immigration bill before its two-year session
ends in early October.

``I think they've diminished dramatically,'' Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., said of
the chances of resolving the immigration issue. Later, he vowed: ``We're going
to come back to this. It's not going to be the end of the road.''

The mood had been decidedly different 24 hours earlier, when euphoric Senate
leaders from both parties announced the compromise, which was co-sponsored by
Martinez and Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb. The bill seemed headed for Senate passage.

But a procedural impasse that developed late Thursday between Senate Republicans
and Democrats over whether the bill could be amended prevented a final vote.
Conservative Republicans who opposed the bill wanted to offer revisions, and
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., agreed. But Democrats, fearing that
amendments would gut the compromise, refused to go along.

``We got a food fight instead of a bill,'' said Frank Sharry, the executive
director of the National Immigration Forum, which supported the compromise.
``We're quite concerned that this has become a political football rather than a
policy debate.''

The delay cast uncertainty on President Bush's call for a comprehensive overhaul
of the nation's immigration laws and undoubtedly will intensify a public outcry
for swift congressional action on one of the nation's most emotional issues.
Latino groups are organizing demonstrations in scores of cities Monday to
protest a version of the bill that the House of Representatives passed, which
would toughen laws against illegal immigrants.

Senate leaders said they expected to resume work on the compromise after
Congress returns April 24, but the next steps were unclear late Friday. The bill
could go to the Judiciary Committee for further deliberation or directly to the
Senate floor, according to Senate aides. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the
Judiciary Committee chair, said he planned to work with staff members through
the recess to lay the groundwork for further action.

$106.5 billion supplemental appropriations bill that includes hurricane relief
and money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

``It's going to be a tough uphill battle now,'' said Sen. Richard Durbin,
D-Ill., the Senate's assistant Democratic leader.

The Martinez-Hagel compromise embraced the basic concepts of a comprehensive
bill that the Judiciary Committee had approved March 27 and a similar measure
sponsored by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

It would establish a guest-worker program and provisions to put nearly 10
million illegal immigrants on a path toward permanent legal status, while
requiring those in the country two years or less to return home.

It also would toughen enforcement and border security, boosting fines on the
employers of illegal immigrants and adding 12,000 Border Patrol agents over the
next five years.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday

Mt. View immigrant rights march set for Monday

BYLINE: Joshua Sabatini, Knight Ridder

LENGTH: 302 words


For Mountain View resident Oscar Garcia, the May 1 nationwide march in support
of immigrant rights ties into his own past.

Garcia, founder of Mesa de La Comunidad, a community human rights group, will
participate in a march outside of the Day Worker Center of Mountain View.

At age 5, Garcia illegally crossed the Mexican-American border with his mother.
His father, who was a legal citizen, worked as a dishwasher and his mother as a
hotel service worker.

His parents' ability to enter the United States as well as earn a living created
an opportunity for him he otherwise wouldn't have had. Garcia graduated from the
University of California-Berkeley and has had success with a high-tech start-up
company. In contrast, his cousin, who has remained in Mexico, never graduated
from college.

Garcia said he wants legislators to provide illegal immigrants with the
opportunity to become citizens and not say they are ``unwanted'' by ``sending
them back.''

As legislators debate the details of proposed immigration laws, marchers and
rallies are scheduled for May 1 across the nation designed to send the message
that immigrants are an important segment of the nation's economy and should not
be subjected to harsh penalties.

For example, Maria Marroquin, director of the Day Worker Center a non-profit
service that places workers from mostly Mexico and South America in temporary
jobs with area employers said if legislators ``criminalize'' those who hire
illegal immigrants then the center would be hard pressed to continue operating.

The march will begin at 4 p.m. from the Day Worker Center, located at 1880
California St. Participants will then walk along California Street to San
Antonio Road, turn left onto El Camino Real and then left onto Castro Street.

A rally will take place at the Civic Center Plaza until 7 p.m.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Mexican boycott spurs outcry;
U.S. FIRMS SAY THEY'RE ALLIES OF WORKERS

BYLINE: Alan Clendenning, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 480 words


U.S. lobbyists lashed out Wednesday at the Mexican boycott-American campaign
timed for May 1 to coincide with the ``Day Without Immigrants'' protest in the
United States.

The American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico said organizers are risking a
backlash and foolishly targeting some of their best allies, since U.S.
corporations have actively lobbied the U.S. Congress for immigration reform,
including legalization for many of the estimated 11 million undocumented
migrants.

Mexicans' refusal to ``buy American'' on May 1 could further polarize the debate
and make reform supporters seem anti-American at the very moment that lobbyists
are trying to persuade lawmakers in Washington to pass a bill that would benefit
migrants, said Larry Rubin, the chamber's president.

``This is like shooting oneself in the foot,'' Rubin said. ``U.S. companies have
been the first to lobby, launching a huge lobbying effort for immigration
reform. . . . Why hurt something that is helping you?''

Migrants and their supporters in the United States are being encouraged to skip
work and school and not spend money for one day to demonstrate the migrants'
importance to the U.S. economy.

South of the border, Mexicans are targeting American stores and chain
restaurants -- ``That means no Dunkin' Donuts, no McDonald's, Burger King,
Starbucks, Sears, Krispy Kreme or Wal-Mart,'' reads one e-mail making the
rounds.

But even activists are confused about which companies are U.S.-owned. Sears is
cited by boycott organizers, despite the fact that Sears' Mexico stores were
bought by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim in 1997. And few organizers mention
Vips -- the chain of ubiquitous Mexican diners -- even though they are owned by
Wal-Mart.

A quarter of Mexico's formal private-sector jobs with regular pay are provided
by U.S. firms, according to the chamber, including Walmex, the Mexican Wal-Mart
subsidiary that is the nation's biggest private employer with 140,000 workers.
Delphi Corp., the U.S. auto-parts maker, is second with 70,000 workers.

``Certainly, companies could be hurt,'' Rubin said at a news conference
Wednesday.

The chamber represents more than 2,000 American and other foreign companies
doing business in Mexico, and says its members are responsible for $100 billion
of investment in the country.

The companies say they're helping Mexico by providing jobs, but activists
counter they pay so little that Mexicans have little choice but to head north.

Backers of the Mexican boycott insisted Wednesday that the protest could send a
message that American companies should offer better pay and benefits to their
Mexican workers.

Unskilled workers at U.S. companies usually start with Mexico's minimum wage of
$4.35 a day. A cashier at Subway (or ``sandwich artist,'' as the company refers
to them) earns about $189 a month in Mexico City. In Colorado, Subway cashiers
make four times that -- $824.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

School officials to students: Don't skip classes for immigration rallies

BYLINE: Luis Zaragoza, Mercury News

LENGTH: 270 words


Silicon Valley and state education officials are urging students to wait until
after school on Monday to join organized demonstrations against proposed
immigration reform.

Jack O'Connell, state superintendent of public instruction, was joined by San
Jose Unified Superintendent Don Iglesias, other officials and students at San
Jose High Academy today to encourage students to discuss immigration issues
freely in class.

But skipping school, officials warned, put students at risk of discipline such
as Saturday school.

``Stay in school every day, including May 1,'' O'Connell said.

Monday's planned nationwide demonstrations stem from concerns among immigrants
over proposed legislation in Congress that might lead to mass deportation of
undocumented workers. Organizers have called for immigrants to skip work and
school to highlight their impact on the economy. Lately, however, concerns about
participants losing their jobs and kids missing out on a day of learning have
prompted calls for Monday's demonstrations to take place later in the day.

O'Connell said the state Department of Education would not grant public schools
waivers to recover revenue lost because of student absences. Most schools are
funded by a formula based on student attendance.

Iglesias said San Jose Unified did not anticipate problems on Monday.

``Students need to know they're free to express their opinions, especially
here,'' Iglesias said, pointing out that San Jose Unified's enrollment is 51
percent Latino. ``They also should study and learn all they can about the
issue.''

Contact Luis Zaragoza at lzaragoza@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5803.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

Thousands expected at S.J. rally

BYLINE: Kim Vo, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 646 words


Tens of thousands of protesters are expected to converge Monday in San Jose for
a massive immigrant rights demonstration that organizers hope will surpass the
protest earlier this month that drew 25,000 people.

``It's a national day of action. It's pretty momentous,'' said An Tran, a
federal policy analyst for the Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network
group known as SIREN. ``We made history April 10, and we hope this rally will be
even bigger.''

Protests are expected across the nation as groups try to pressure Congress as it
considers a sweeping immigration reform bill. Rallies are scheduled throughout
the Bay Area, including in San Francisco and Oakland. Some employers are making
contingency plans in anticipation of a work boycott, with one threatening to
fire employees if they take off work for the march.

The San Jose Coalition for Immigrant Rights is not asking immigrants to boycott
work, as some groups are doing to underscore the role immigrants play in the
nation's economy.

``As immigrants, we are in a very vulnerable situation in many aspects,'' Tran
said, noting most people can't afford to be fired for missing work. ``There are
many ways to voice our political protests without putting families in
jeopardy.''

Employers are dealing with expected absences in a variety of ways, said Kim
Parker, executive vice president of the California Association of Employers, who
has heard from businesses ranging from hospitality to construction to health
care.

Some bosses are allowing employees to switch shifts so they can march Monday.
Others are planning to work with skeleton crews.

The Day Worker Center will be closed, and so will La Fortuna Mercado y
Carniceria, both in Mountain View. The nearly dozen employees scheduled to work
at the grocery store that day will attend the rally but will still be paid, said
store manager Saustino Ramirez.

``We'd like to close the store to support our people,'' said Ramirez, who is an
immigrant like all his employees. Immigrants own, cook and clerk at most of the
businesses in the Rengstorff shopping center, said Ramirez, who predicted most
of the center would be empty.

Emptiness worries Jim Stump, who owns A.P. Stump's Chop House in San Jose and
Los Gatos Brewing. He said he can't afford to lose workers Monday.

``I told them I'd terminate them,'' he said. ``If they strike, they'll shut me
down. I'm loyal to them, giving them two weeks off if they have a baby or
something, and that's not showing loyalty if I've got $30,000 in lost
business.''

A prayer vigil will be held 6:30 p.m. Sunday at Plaza de Cesar Chavez in San
Jose.

The next day, the crowd will gather at King and Story roads at 3 p.m. The
coalition -- an ethnic spectrum that includes members from labor, religious,
political and advocacy groups -- wants people to wear white to show their
solidarity.

Protesters will march north on King Road, then west to Guadalupe River Park. The
rally is expected to start at 5:30 p.m. and end about 8 p.m. Scheduled speakers
include U.S. Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, and Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, head of the
South Bay Labor Council.

Police are encouraging motorists to use Highway 85 to avoid the march, said San
Jose Police officer Enrique Garcia. The march will shut down westbound Santa
Clara Street and force rolling closures of on- and off-ramps at Interstate 680
and King Road, Julian Street and Highway 101, and Santa Clara Street and Highway
87.

If the crowds are very big, he said, eastbound Santa Clara Street will also be
closed.

He encouraged protesters to leave their cars near Arena Green park and take
public transit or carpool to the starting point at King. If not, he said,
traffic woes will extend into the night as the massive crowd turns around and
marches in reverse to their cars.

Staff writer Lisa Fernandez contributed to this report.

Contact Kim Vo at kvo@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5719.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

In the Bay Area

LENGTH: 341 words


BOYCOTTS, PROTESTS TODAY

``A Day Without Immigrants,'' a national boycott of work, school and shopping,
seeks to highlight immigration reform and oppose legislation that would
criminalize illegal immigrants.

In the Bay Area

Business: Dozens of businesses and day labor centers have announced plans to
close. Most businesses will remain open.

Agriculture: Wine grape, strawberry and mushroom companies with United Farm
Worker contracts will let their workers take a full or half day off. Many
farmworkers at non-union strawberry and vegetable companies say they won't work
today.

Schools: State Superintendent of Schools Jack O'Connell and San Jose Unified
Superintendent Don Iglesias have urged students to stay in class during school
hours.

Protests

San Jose:March from King and Story roads to Guadalupe Park downtown, 4 p.m.

San Francisco:Rally at Justin Hermann Plaza, 11 a.m.; march downtown 1 p.m.;
rally at Civic Center, 3 p.m.; protest at federal building, 5 p.m.

Mountain View:Gathering at California Street and Escuela Avenue at 4 p.m.; march
to a rally at Civic Center Plaza at 7 p.m.

Oakland:Gathering at E. 14th St./International Blvd. & 98th Ave., 9 a.m.; march
to downtown federal building; rally from noon.

Across the country

New York: Thousands of workers are expected to take work breaks shortly after
noon to link arms with other supporters along sidewalks for about 20 minutes.

Los Angeles: Police are preparing for 500,000 marchers.

Where they stand

State officials: The state Senate passed a resolution supporting the boycott.
The Assembly Judiciary Committee passed a resolution opposing measures that
would criminalize illegal immigrants.

Local rights groups: The San Jose Coalition for Immigrant Rights supports the
march and rally but did not formally endorse the boycott.

Labor unions: Some unions are supporting the boycott; others are encouraging
demonstrations after work hours.

Religious leaders:The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops urged immigrants to
attend Mass instead of boycotting.

Source:Mercury News reporting; wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Rallies spark hope, backlash;
ORGANIZERS TO SIGN UP VOTERS, AS PROTESTS LEAVE PUBLIC POLARIZED

BYLINE: Teresa Watanabe and Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words


They've rallied, they've marched, they've boycotted. So now what?

In the aftermath of Monday's ``Day Without Immigrants,'' the urgent question
immigrants and their supporters face is how to translate the passion of the
streets into lasting political gains.

In coming months, immigrant rights organizers say, they will shift their energy
into making a difference at the polls through registering voters, helping legal
immigrants become citizens and getting out the vote in June primary elections
around the nation.

``This is only the beginning,'' said Hilda Delgado of Local 1877 of the Service
Employees International Union in Los Angeles. ``Now we have to reroute all of
the energy and momentum and start registering to vote to send a clear message to
the Senate and House in Washington'' about immigration reform.

Organizers have their work cut out for them. According to the Pew Hispanic
Center, only 39 percent of the nation's 41 million Latinos are eligible to vote
-- compared with 76 percent for whites and 65 percent for blacks. And fewer than
half of the 16 million eligible Latino voters actually voted in the 2004 general
election. Pew center director Roberto Suro said Latinos must now convince the
broader public that legislation expanding guest worker programs and offering
undocumented immigrants a chance to legalize would be good for the nation.

That message, however, will be fought by immigration control advocates, who say
the past two months of marches and rallies have drawn new recruits to their
cause of cracking down on illegal immigration.

Since the March 25 Los Angeles march startled the nation by drawing 500,000
people into the streets, the Phoenix-based Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, which
monitors the nation's borders, has significantly increased its volunteers,
fundraising and Web site traffic, said spokeswoman Connie Hair.

She said 400 new volunteers joined the group in the first week after the L.A.
march, compared with a normal weekly flow of about 135. An Internet appeal for
support to begin building private fences on private land along the U.S.-Mexican
border raised $150,000 in a week. The group's Web traffic has quadrupled to
36,000 hits per day, she said.

The marches ``have focused the American people's attention on people marching in
the streets and waving Mexican flags . . . who may not be grateful for the
taxpayer-subsidized benefits they're getting and who are jumping in line ahead
of those who are doing it legally,'' Hair said. ``There is a quiet rage
building.''

In Washington, where the Senate may resume debate on an immigration bill as
early as next week, a few congressional officials said the demonstrations would
serve to keep the issue on the agenda. But most lawmakers warned that the
rallies could polarize the public, make it harder for Congress to negotiate the
thorny issue and create a backlash against immigrants -- on the Hill and off.

``To get thoughtful legislation passed is going to be harder the more emotions
get inflamed on either side of the debate,'' said Rep. Mary Bono, R-Palm
Springs.

Bono last year voted for the controversial House bill that sparked the massive
marches by proposing to criminalize illegal migrants and build a 700-mile fence
on the U.S.-Mexican border.

In contrast, the Senate Judiciary Committee in March passed a bill viewed as
more favorable to immigrants, which includes an expanded guest worker program
and a chance for undocumented migrants currently in the U.S. to gain legal
status by paying a fine and learning English, among other things.

Backlash possible

On Monday, conservative Republicans who backed the House legislation dismissed
suggestions that the demonstrations would move them to soften their legislative
stance, or that members had any regret about passing a bill that has sparked
such opposition.

``Opponents of the bill have demagogued it and misled people; that's been their
strategy,'' said Jeff Lungren, a spokesman for the House bill's main author,
Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., R-Wis.

Some senators who back broader immigration reform said the protests could make
their work harder.

Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., is a sponsor of the bill before the Senate that would
create a guest worker program and legalize undocumented immigrants. He warned
that Monday's efforts were ``counterproductive.''

Staff members for senators from both parties, including Sen. John Cornyn,
R-Texas. and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., said that most of the calls coming
into their offices were opposed to benefits, including amnesty, for illegal
immigrants. A Rasmussen poll released last week showed that 26 percent of
Americans hold a favorable opinion of the protests, while 56 percent do not.

As immigrants rallied nationwide, White House press secretary Scott McClellan
reiterated President Bush's opposition to their action. ``The president is not a
fan of boycotts,'' McClellan said.

Voters wanted

Immigrant rights advocates are well aware that they need to transform the
marchers into voters for lasting gains. On Monday, many marchers in downtown Los
Angeles held signs in Spanish, ``Today we march, tomorrow we vote.''

Such influential figures as Spanish-language radio DJ Eddie ``El Piolin'' Sotelo
urged crowds to become U.S. citizens -- a suggestion greeted with roars of
approval.

And immigrant supporters also see another source of new voters: high school
students who will soon be of voting age.

Attorney Jessica Dominguez, who heads the immigration section of the Los Angeles
County Bar Association and frequently speaks to students, said the recent
marches and protests have helped politicize a generation that will soon be of
voting age.

``These are U.S. citizen kids, and the message is, they are going to vote,''
said Dominguez. ``My own 19-year-old son is so excited. He knows we are living
through historic moments, and he can't wait.''

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Lawmakers should ignore immigrant lawbreakers

BYLINE: Patrick J. Buchanan

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 787 words


It was billed as ``A Day Without Immigrants.''

According to its propagandists, official and media, the purpose of the May Day
walkout from schools and jobs and boycott of shops and stores was to show how
much immigrants contribute and how they deserve appreciation and respect, and
not to be treated like criminals.

But if this was all it was about, there would have been no need to go on strike.
Americans have always welcomed immigrants. They are treated better here than
anywhere on earth. While most Americans believe we now need a timeout to
assimilate the 36 million here and their children -- like the moratorium we had
in the Roosevelt-Truman-Eisenhower-Kennedy years -- no one urges any denial of
rights to legal immigrants.

What, then, was May Day really all about?

May Day was a strike against America. It was a show of force, a demonstration of
raw street power to force the government of the United States into granting to
12 million illegal aliens, who have broken our laws and broken into our country,
not only the full benefits of U.S. citizenship, but full citizenship.

It was brazen act of extortion to coerce Congress to grant amnesty now, and not
to enforce our immigration laws or secure the Mexican border -- or to be ready
for big trouble in the streets.

Congress cannot capitulate. The response of any Congress that calls itself
American to such extortion should be a direct one:

``We are not intimidated. There is going to be no amnesty. The border fence goes
up this summer. Those are our non-negotiable answers to your non-negotiable
demands. Demonstrate all you want. We're not capitulating.''

The message that would go out to the world would be electric: Congress will have
said, first, that the United States will not be cowed by strikes or boycotts by
lawbreakers. Second, America intends to re-establish control of her border.
Third, the invasion route from Mexico is going to be closed, forever.

Fourth, those who come to America henceforth will be those we invite in. And, as
guests, they will behave as guests -- or they will be going back home. As for
businesses that cannot get along without illegal foreign labor, if some of their
CEOs are prosecuted and put to work in Arizona building that security fence,
they will rapidly rediscover how to make a buck without colluding in an invasion
of their country for commercial purposes.

We are at a turning point in American history. In July 1954, President
Eisenhower, discovering that illegal aliens were pouring into the southern
United States at a rate of a million a year, put in motion ``Operation
Wetback,'' which halted the invasion and sent back scores of thousands of
illegals to Mexico. Many more returned voluntarily.

Thirty years later, Ronald Reagan declared an amnesty for 3 million illegal
aliens, conditioned on sanctions on U.S. businesses that did not cease to hire
them. Following that amnesty, the flood began. Now we have 12 million illegals
here.

Between 2000 and 2005, 4.5 million were caught at the border. Four million are
believed to have gotten in. No one knows exactly how many. Even Bush concedes
that, among the illegals, one in 12 has a criminal record. If we have 12 million
illegals here now, that means the U.S. government, in dereliction of its duty,
has let into this nation in the past 20 years 1 million criminals -- like
Beltway sniper John Lee Malvo -- to prey on American citizens.

While almost half of all Mexicans, in a national poll, indicated a desire to
move to the United States, the rest of the Third World has gotten the message.
One in every 10 citizens of Central America and the Caribbean countries has
already arrived. During the war on terror, the number of those coming into the
United States illegally from countries ``other than Mexico'' (OTM) has tripled.

These OTMs are coming from as far away as China and Iraq.

Fifteen years ago, when this writer ran in the California GOP primary against
the first President Bush, calling for a border fence along the crucial 70 miles
where illegals were massing and coming in by the thousands every day, there were
3 million to 4 million illegals here.

Nothing was done. There are now 12 million. If these 12 million are amnestied
and the border fence is not built along all 2,000 miles, the next amnesty will
be for 20 million or 30 million.

During the ``Generals Revolt,'' when half a dozen senior officers called for the
firing of Defense Secretary Rumsfeld, President Bush saw a challenge to his
authority and had to throw it back. If Congress does not throw back this
challenge, if Congress now capitulates to this extortion, America should start
shopping for a new Congress in November -- an American Congress.

PATRICK J. BUCHANAN is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Painfully agreeing with Buchanan

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 722 words


I am bereft and utterly dismayed. The first opinion column on the immigration
subject with which I completely agree is written by Patrick Buchanan (Op-ed, May
3), a columnist whom I personally detest.

Alan CarasLos Gatos

Too much fuss over non-voters

I fail to understand how uproar and protests over immigration policies and
reform can be called a political movement or force. Last time I checked, illegal
immigrants do not have the right to vote in this country.

Coleen ColwellMorgan Hill

How Bush can save U.S. finances

President Bush can save America's finances by the following four steps: 1. Veto
all bills from Congress that contain any ``earmarks.'' 2. Raise the age for
Social Security and Medicare to 70 in the next 12 years. 3. Close the Department
of Education. 4. Enforce existing immigration laws.

Charlie LarsonMountain View

CSU trustee Hauck deserves criticism

While I have been critical of Assembly member Jackie Goldberg in the past, I
applaud her courageous effort to call the antics of CSU Trustee William Hauck
into question (Page 1B, May 3). Hauck has been a disaster on the board of
trustees and it is time for him to go before he causes more problems for Gov.
Schwarzenegger. What is galling about Hauck is that he received a very
inexpensive education while going to San Jose State University, and now he wants
thousands of first-generation college students all over the state to ``pay their
own way.'' His task force project, which was supposed to ferret out waste,
actually cost the state millions of dollars. It is high time Hauck joined Don
Rumsfeld, Jack Abramoff, Tom DeLay and Bill Frist at Dick Cheney's neocon ranch
in Texas.

James RowenSanta Clara

Whom to blame? Ask Ann Coulter

For those of you wondering who succeeded in a strategy to drive up gas prices,
wonder no more. The culprits have been exposed by conservative columnist Ann
Coulter. It should come as no surprise that guilty are -- you guessed it -- the
Democrats, the same people who ``refused to let us drill for oil in Alaska''
(her words). Democrats do not realize that the more profits the oil companies
make, the more billions they will have available to finance the Republican
Revolution. So, by causing the spike in gas prices, the Democrats are shooting
themselves in the foot again. Ann Coulter also identifies liberals as
``godless.'' If she had read any of the New Testament, she would know that Jesus
of Nazareth was a consummate liberal.

Howard F. SosbeeScotts Valley

Freedom under siege in Eritrea

President Isaias Afwerki of Eritrea was identified in your paper as one of the
``overlooked autocrats we should be paying attention to'' (Page 1P, April 30).
As Wednesday was the World Press Freedom Day, we should also highlight Eritrea
as one of the ``10 most censored countries,'' according to the Committee to
Protect Journalists. Afwerki has closed every private media outlet in Eritrea
and jailed at least 15 journalists in secret detention centers without charges.
One example is the case of Mattewos Habteab, for whose freedom the Peninsula
chapter of Amnesty International is campaigning. Mattewos was the editor of the
newspaper Meqaleh (``Echo'') when he was arrested in September 2001. He has been
held incommunicado at an undisclosed location ever since.

Samson TuSanta Clara

Parks measure is good for county

I applaud and thank you for your editorial supporting Santa Clara County Measure
B (Editorial, May 1). Your points are right on!

I have been extremely impressed with the County Parks and Recreation
Department's ability to leverage Park Charter Fund dollars against matching
grants from other sources such as the state and the Open Space Authority. Stable
funding translates to confidence from these agencies, whether land acquisitions
or park development, and county taxpayers get more bang for their buck. Stable
funding has led to a significant decrease in the county property-tax percentage
set aside for parks since the Park Charter Fund was first passed more than 30
years ago. All the while, stable funding has allowed significant growth in the
number and quality of county parks. The passage of Measure B in June will allow
the continued fiscally responsible growth and maintenance of Santa Clara County
parks for years to come.

Gregory J. West, vice chair, Santa Clara County Parks and Recreation
CommissionSan Jose

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday

Latino voting boost sought;
POLITICAL MOMENTUM OVER IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Brandon Bailey, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 569 words


Silicon Valley union leaders and activists announced a new drive Wednesday to
increase Latino voting in next month's election, hoping to capitalize on the
momentum from recent rallies for immigrant rights.

As the U.S. Senate continued debating a major immigration bill, about 25
volunteers from local unions and community groups began calling Latino voters
from the San Jose headquarters of the South Bay Labor Council. Leaders hope to
have more than 100 volunteers going door to door in Latino neighborhoods this
weekend.

Similar efforts are under way in cities around the country, according to
immigrant-rights advocates, who also sponsored a grass-roots effort encouraging
residents to sign petitions and telephone their legislators about the
immigration issue.

Organizers want Congress to provide a way for illegal immigrants to earn legal
status, without the criminal penalties that were included in a bill approved by
the House of Representatives. Activists also hope the recent rallies will
inspire Latino turnout at the polls.

``That is the catalyst that we're using, to direct people's attention to the
power that they have'' as prospective voters, said Salvador ``Chava''
Bustamante, a vice president of the Service Employees International Union, Local
1877. ``We need to elect leaders who best represent the interests of Latinos and
immigrants in California.''

The labor council has endorsed several candidates in the spring primary,
including San Jose mayoral candidate Cindy Chavez, and a get-out-the-vote effort
could benefit those candidates. But Latino Voter Project director Anabel Ibañez
said project volunteers will not mention any candidates when they call voters.

In addition to local unions, she said, the project is drawing volunteers from
ACORN, a community organizing network, and other groups that may not have
endorsed the same candidates.

Phone bank workers are focusing on 60,000 registered voters with Latino surnames
in San Jose, aiming to improve what Ibañez said was a 45 percent turnout in the
latest election. Canvassers will also encourage eligible residents to register
to vote.

Nationwide, the numbers of Latinos and Latino voters have steadily increased
over the last decade. But experts say that Latinos are less likely to register
or to vote than other ethnic groups, in part because significant numbers are
under 18 or are not citizens.

Of an estimated 4.6 million Latinos who are eligible in California, only 2.6
million are registered voters, according to the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials.

The group estimates there are 100,000 registered Latino voters in Santa Clara
County; an unknown number are eligible but have not registered.

Meanwhile, a handful of union members, college students and clergy staffed
tables at a half-dozen locations around the South Bay on Wednesday, including
the student center at Santa Clara University and the sidewalk in front of the Mi
Pueblo grocery on Story Road in San Jose.

Marcos Gonzalez said he had no trouble collecting nearly 100 signatures in about
two hours.

``We're all human beings. I want anyone who comes here to work to feel like they
can drive down the street without being afraid of being arrested and deported,''
said Gonzales, 29, a maintenance worker who said he came to the United States
illegally in 1988 but is now a legal resident.

Contact Brandon Bailey at bbailey@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5022.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Bill addresses deportation appeals;
SENATE VERSION WOULD CHANGE BUSH POLICY WIDELY SEEN AS UNFAIR

BYLINE: Howard Mintz, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 786 words


As Congress weighs immigration reform, public attention has been fixed on
whether to erect a fence along the U.S.-Mexico border and what to do about a
guest-worker program.

But a little-noticed provision in the Senate's wide-ranging immigration bill
would erase a controversial Bush administration directive that four years ago
dramatically changed the way the immigration system deals with deportation and
asylum cases. The proposed reforms to the Board of Immigration Appeals, often
the last hope for non-citizens fighting deportation, have slid through thus far
with little debate.

Yet if approved, the changes would be profound, and may address what many
critics -- including an increasing number of federal appellate judges -- have
labeled rubber stamp justice in the immigration system.

The chief reforms would for the most part wipe out former Attorney General John
Ashcroft's 2002 decision to downsize the Board of Immigration Appeals and order
a majority of deportation and asylum cases resolved, without explanation, by one
board member. Ashcroft, who sought to tighten immigration in the aftermath of
the Sept. 11 attacks, reduced the board from 23 members to 11 as part of the
``streamlining'' regulations to reduce a huge backlog of cases.

The result has been an explosion of appeals in the federal courts, particularly
in the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers
California and eight other Western states. The 9th Circuit's immigration appeals
have jumped from 900 to about 6,000 in the past five years, as large numbers of
immigrants fighting deportation argue they've received short shrift in the
system.

A Mercury News series last year found the 9th Circuit has been overturning a
majority of the most important deportation and asylum cases coming from the
Board of Immigration Appeals, and other federal courts have also blasted the
board for shoddy decision making, particularly in streamlined cases.

Some judges and lawyers familiar with the issue are hoping Congress approves
many of the reforms, which would restore the board to 23 members and call for
the vast majority of immigration appeals to be decided by three board members,
effectively scrapping streamlining.

``It's a positive move,'' said Lory Rosenberg, a former appeals board member who
resigned when Ashcroft downsized the agency. ``You could say Congress is making
an effort to take the matter in hand and exercise some control and
responsibility over the process.''

It is unclear whether Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, who recently launched a
review of the immigration courts, will take a formal position on the
legislation. But the appeals board, which is under the Justice Department, has
defended streamlining, arguing that it has eliminated a massive backlog of tens
of thousands of immigration cases.

The latest reforms to immigration appeals have evolved in recent months, spurred
by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chairman of the Judiciary Committee. Specter
previously pushed a plan to shift thousands of immigration appeals in courts
around the country to a Washington, D.C.-based appeals court that now
specializes in patent cases.

Specter said he wanted one federal court specializing in immigration cases. But
critics, particularly federal judges, opposed the move, saying it didn't address
the problem of subpar decisions from the immigration courts.

As a result, Specter backed off, and has now included a provision in the bill
that calls for a study of how the federal appellate courts handle immigration
cases. The rest of the provisions are aimed at improving the immigration courts,
including adding immigration judges and Justice Department lawyers to handle the
hundreds of thousands of immigration matters heard each year.

Mary Schroeder, the 9th Circuit's chief judge, said that reversing the
streamlining policy and getting better decisions from the Board of Immigration
Appeals will ease the pressure on the federal courts.

``To the extent our problems have been created by the elimination of
administrative review in that agency, this will go toward improving the
situation,'' Schroeder said.

Washington insiders following the legislation say the fate of the immigration
court provisions are uncertain as Congress spars over the entire package. But
they are expected to get through the Senate if the overall immigration
legislation gets resolved.

Tim Sparapani, legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, said
``there is no doubt'' the reforms will make it out of the Senate. But others
worry that the reforms may go too far -- some immigration experts say the
appeals board should return to a 1999 policy.

Contact Howard Mintz at hmintz@mercurynews.com or (408) 286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

Chung: For child of immigration, national debate divides

BYLINE: L.A. Chung, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 604 words


Isaac Rubalcava is a man who gets emotional about the immigration debate that
simmered and blew up across the country this spring.

He watched president Bush's speech a week ago and felt encouraged. On Thursday,
with the Senate's bipartisan passage of an immigration reform bill, he felt
hopeful it won't get screwed up when all is said and done this time.

Like many Americans, Rubalcava believes that illegal immigration is ``out of
control'' and reform is necessary. Like many, he believes in the rule of law and
that learning English is important. Still, he is torn.

``I'm not a Bushie, and this may be the only time I agree with him,'' he said.
``I want something done that is fair. ``Grab them and send them all back? How
are they going to do that?''

Ike Rubalcava is an American, born in L.A. 77 years ago. He also calls himself a
Mexican. Not Mexican-American. But American andMexican. He sees no contradiction
in that. Only pride, and respect for the parents who raised him.

Seeing all sides

The current debate has touched a nerve. He's angry at the Mexican government for
not doing more to educate and employ its people. And at the American government
for failing to enforce its own laws, its own 1986 immigration reform act. He
faults those American businesses that have even hired coyotes to smuggle workers
into this country.

``A lot of us are breaking the law doing this, and knowingly,'' he said. By
``us'' he means ``we Americans.''

``I heard Vicente Fox say Mexico has to do something to give people jobs. Well,
why wouldn't they do that before? It's only because of the pressure now.''

As a man of faith, he also knows humans often exist in situations without good
options. That's why he doesn't find nearly as much fault with many of the people
who desperately cross the border illegally, than with the politicians and the
economic policies that create the unbalanced situation.

His father was a pipe fitter, an immigrant from the state of Jalisco who came
because his family lost most of their rancho in the revolution. He was a
blue-collar Union Pacific man. Rubalcava became a blue-collar guy, too, and now
works at a day care center for brain-injured people.

``My father spoke beautiful English,'' he said. His mother never learned well.
Her life was her home, raising 12 children. She fed indigent job seekers during
the Depression, and neighborhood kids.

``When I hear something derogatory said about a Mexican immigrant, it hurts,''
he said. ``It's like hitting me.''

That goes for some of his own nieces and nephews, who look down on newcomers.

What would you do?

He knows a good solution to illegal immigration is multilayered, and difficult.

More than 50 years ago, he helped three of his cousins come here illegally. They
lived with his parents, saved money and went back to Mexico.

``We broke the law,'' he said. ``We did it to help them, OK?''

They did ``dirty, yucky jobs,'' meat rendering and grave digging. ``They smelled
terrible, like rotting meat,'' he said. ``They had to take a shower every night
from being in the tallow and the fat and . . . I wouldn't do it.''

Cousins Juan and Juventino started little businesses back home with the money
they saved. Cousin Reyes went back to work a vestige of the rancho in Jalisco.

Ike married his wife, Joan, an Irish-American girl from East L.A. They'll
celebrate their golden anniversary in January.

``What do I think is the solution?'' he asked, turning the conversation back to
reform. ``I don't think there is a solution. But I'm hoping something will come
of this.''

Not just anything. Something fair.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or(408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

Chung: For child of immigration, debate divides

BYLINE: L.A. Chung, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words


Isaac Rubalcava is a man who gets emotional about the immigration debate that
simmered and blew up across the country this spring.

He watched president Bush's speech a week ago and felt encouraged. On Thursday,
with the Senate's bipartisan passage of an immigration reform bill, he felt
hopeful it won't get screwed up when all is said and done this time.

Like many Americans, Rubalcava believes that illegal immigration is ``out of
control'' and reform is necessary. Like many, he believes in the rule of law and
that learning English is important. Still, he is torn.

``I'm not a Bushie, and this may be the only time I agree with him,'' he said.
``I want something done that is fair. ``Grab them and send them all back? How
are they going to do that?''

Ike Rubalcava is an American, born in L.A. 77 years ago. He also calls himself a
Mexican. Not Mexican-American. But American andMexican. He sees no contradiction
in that. Only pride, and respect for the parents who raised him.

Seeing all sides

The current debate has touched a nerve. He's angry at the Mexican government for
not doing more to educate and employ its people. And at the American government
for failing to enforce its own laws, its own 1986 immigration reform act. He
faults those American businesses that have even hired coyotes to smuggle workers
into this country.

``A lot of us are breaking the law doing this, and knowingly,'' he said. By
``us'' he means ``we Americans.''

``I heard Vicente Fox say Mexico has to do something to give people jobs. Well,
why wouldn't they do that before? It's only because of the pressure now.''

As a man of faith, he also knows humans often exist in situations without good
options. That's why he doesn't find nearly as much fault with many of the people
who desperately cross the border illegally, than with the politicians and the
economic policies that create the unbalanced situation.

His father was a pipe fitter, an immigrant from the state of Jalisco who came
because his family lost most of their rancho in the revolution. He was a
blue-collar Union Pacific man. Rubalcava became a blue-collar guy, too, and now
works at a day care center for brain-injured people.

``My father spoke beautiful English,'' he said. His mother never learned well.
Her life was her home, raising 12 children. She fed indigent job seekers during
the Depression, and neighborhood kids.

``When I hear something derogatory said about a Mexican immigrant, it hurts,''
he said. ``It's like hitting me.''

That goes for some of his own nieces and nephews, who look down on newcomers.

What would you do?

He knows a good solution to illegal immigration is multilayered, and difficult.

More than 50 years ago, he helped three of his cousins come here illegally. They
lived with his parents, saved money and went back to Mexico.

``We broke the law,'' he said. ``We did it to help them, OK?''

They did ``dirty, yucky jobs,'' meat rendering and grave digging. ``They smelled
terrible, like rotting meat,'' he said. ``They had to take a shower every night
from being in the tallow and the fat and . . . I wouldn't do it.''

Cousins Juan and Juventino started little businesses back home with the money
they saved. Cousin Reyes went back to work a vestige of the rancho in Jalisco.

Ike married his wife, Joan, an Irish-American girl from East L.A. They'll
celebrate their golden anniversary in January.

``What do I think is the solution?'' he asked, turning the conversation back to
reform. ``I don't think there is a solution. But I'm hoping something will come
of this.''

Not just anything. Something fair.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or(408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 1, 2006 Thursday

Cap on high-tech visas for 2007 already met, government says

LENGTH: 423 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government has already reached the limit on high-tech worker visas for 2007
even though the fiscal year doesn't start until Oct. 1, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services said Thursday.

High-tech companies said that underscores the need to increase the 65,000 annual
cap on the popular H-1B visas used to bring in engineers, computer programmers
and others.

Immigration legislation passed by the Senate would increase the number to
115,000, but a House version of the bill doesn't address the issue, and it's
unclear whether lawmakers will be able to write a compromise bill.

``Our message is whether it's comprehensive immigration reform or some other way
we really need relief this year,'' said Sandy Boyd, a vice president of the
National Association of Manufacturers. ``There's much more demand for highly
educated folks in specialty occupations and we hurt our competitiveness when we
don't allow American companies access to the talent they need.''

It's the fourth year in a row that the cap has been met before the start of the
fiscal year. This year was the earliest that it has happened, tech companies
said.

The Citizen and Immigration Services began accepting H-1B petitions on April 1
and exceeded the cap on May 26, the agency said in a press release. Petitions
subject to the 2007 cap that USCIS receives after May 26 will be rejected, the
release said.

High-tech firms won't have another opportunity to apply until April 1, 2007,
when petitioning will start for the 2008 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, 2007.

The visas are widely used in the Silicon Valley and elsewhere. Companies pay a
$3,185 fee to bring workers in under the six-year visas.

In addition to raising the cap, the Senate bill would allow it to increase as
much as 20 percent more each year, depending on demand. Immigrants with certain
advanced degrees would not be subject to the cap. There already are exemptions
for some immigrants who've received higher-education degrees in the U.S. or are
going to work at universities or nonprofits.

U.S. technology workers and other opponents contend the expansion is unnecessary
and will only bring down wages and discourage American youngsters from pursuing
tech careers.

Congress last raised the cap in 2000 -- to 195,000 per year -- when the country
was enjoying a technology-propelled boom. The limit was brought back down to
65,000 in time for the 2004 fiscal year.

------

On the Net:

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services: http://www.uscis.gov

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Quota on tech visas for 2007 already filled;
COMPANIES PRESS CONGRESS TO RAISE CAP, BUT BILL'S OUTCOME STILL UNCLEAR

BYLINE: Erica Werner, Associated Press

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 367 words


The government has already reached the limit on high-tech worker visas for 2007
even though the fiscal year doesn't start until Oct. 1, the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services said Thursday.

High-tech companies said that underscores the need to increase the 65,000 annual
cap on the popular H-1B visas used to bring in engineers, computer programmers
and others.

Immigration legislation passed by the Senate would increase the number to
115,000, but a House version of the bill doesn't address the issue, and it's
unclear whether lawmakers will be able to write a compromise bill.

``Our message is, whether it's comprehensive immigration reform or some other
way, we really need relief this year,'' said Sandy Boyd, a vice president of the
National Association of Manufacturers. ``There's much more demand for highly
educated folks in specialty occupations, and we hurt our competitiveness when we
don't allow American companies access to the talent they need.''

It's the fourth year in a row that the cap has been met before the start of the
fiscal year. This year was the earliest that it has happened, tech companies
said.

The Citizen and Immigration Services began accepting H-1B petitions April 1 and
exceeded the cap May 26, the agency said in a statement. Petitions subject to
the 2007 cap that the agency receives after May 26 will be rejected, the release
said.

High-tech companies won't have another opportunity to apply until April 1, 2007,
when petitioning will start for the 2008 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, 2007.

The visas are widely used in Silicon Valley and elsewhere. Under the six-year
visas, companies pay a $3,185 fee to bring workers in.

In addition to raising the cap, the Senate bill would allow it to increase as
much as 20 percent more each year, depending on demand. Immigrants with certain
advanced degrees would not be subject to the cap. There already are exemptions
for some immigrants who have received higher-education degrees in the United
States or are going to work at universities or non-profits.

U.S. tech workers and other opponents contend the expansion is unnecessary and
will only bring down wages and discourage American youngsters from pursuing tech
careers.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 4, 2006 Sunday

Keeping immigration in play boosts GOP's chances in fall

BYLINE: Larry Gerston

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 701 words


President Bush attempted to move the immigration reform issue down the political
field with a national address on the subject, and Republican Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., made good on his promise to deliver a bill out of
the upper chamber by Memorial Day weekend.

Time to light up the barbecue and have a cool one?

Hardly, for there's tremendous opposition to the Senate version sizzling in the
House of Representatives. The reason has nothing to do with inadequate border
interdiction or the promise of citizenship for illegal immigrants. Rather, it's
the math associated with the 2006 midterm elections.

With presidential and congressional popularity plummeting in recent months,
Republicans need an issue to mobilize their core voters. They know that the name
of the game is voter turnout. Low turnout typifies a midterm election, an
outcome that normally benefits Republicans, who participate in higher numbers
than Democrats and independents.

But this time, Republicans are threatening to stay home -- for a variety of
reasons, ranging from disappointment with budget busting to concerns about the
war in Iraq to anguish over a Republican Party neglecting social issues like
abortion.

All this can be reversed with a compelling issue that rallies Republican voters
in large enough numbers this November to continue domination of the nation's
three major policy-making institutions, the presidency and the two houses of
Congress.

Republicans succeeded with a similar approach in 2002, when they pressed voters
for continued stewardship in the name of national security. By employing the
fear as motivation, the electorate responded by increasing Republican margins, a
feat rarely accomplished by the party in power during a midterm election.

This, along with the re-election of George W. Bush in 2004, has given
Republicans total control of the policy-making process, something no party has
enjoyed since the 1930s. But voters have grown weary of the national security
issue, fussing instead about American involvement in a war without end that is
extracting huge costs in lives, dollars and American popularity abroad.

So, many Republican leaders astutely have tweaked the security question by
focusing on the dangers of porous borders to American society by threatening
jobs and the loss of English as our cornerstone of universal communication.

To be sure, not all Republicans subscribe to the new theme. Many ``business''
Republicans value immigrants, particularly to the extent that they will work in
low-paying jobs that help assure profits. But congressional Republicans aren't
worrying about this group -- they'll vote the right way no matter what because
Republicans will keep their taxes low.

It's the ``social conservative'' Republicans who place the party at risk. These
are the folks who are often on fixed incomes, work in low-paying blue-collar
jobs and embrace evangelical guidance. They hold the key to Republicans' keeping
control of the Congress, particularly the House, where local issues resonate at
the polls. They're upset with immigrants congregating at corners in search of
day jobs, attending public schools and using public-health-care facilities.

That's what takes us to the November elections and why the immigration issue is
not likely to be resolved before then. For House Republicans to settle the
question before the election would remove too much energy from the voters, who
just might keep these people in office if they felt threatened. Such strategy
might not be pretty, but it could be smart politics.

At some point, the issue of immigrant reform will be dealt with, if for no other
reason than to allow the Republican majority to refocus its energy on other
compelling issues such as trade, spending and, of course, the war in Iraq. But
for now, not resolving this issue is more valuable to Republicans than reaching
any compromise. They need a mobilized base to vote in droves. And as long as the
immigration issue festers, those numbers will be politically motivated to act.

LARRY N. GERSTON is a professor of political science at San Jose State
University and author of ``Public Policy Making: Process and Principles.'' He
wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 10, 2006 Saturday

Citizenship efforts accelerate;
IMMIGRATION DEBATE IN CONGRESS SPURS A SURGE TO NATURALIZE

BYLINE: Sudarsan Raghavan and Karin Brulliard, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 673 words


Driven by the fierce congressional debate over immigration, immigrants
nationwide are applying for U.S. citizenship in record numbers or seeking to
solidify their legal status in a move to protect themselves at a time of
political uncertainty.

Many fear that laws could toughen, preventing them from becoming naturalized or
from bringing relatives into the United States; others appear to be motivated by
the chance to obtain more rights and boost their political clout through voting.

Between January and April, immigrants filed 251,385 applications, an 18 percent
increase from the same period last year, immigration officials said. They also
report a record surge in petitions to sponsor relatives for residency, also up
18 percent for the time period.

Last month, the number of visits to the Citizenship and Immigration Services'
Web site soared to 6.3 million, up 12 percent from May of last year. Visitors
downloaded 140,000 citizenship applications, nearly twice as many as a year
before. ``Green card'' applications downloaded also rose significantly from May
2005.

``We saw a dramatically higher upswing than we have ever seen before,'' said
Chris Bentley of Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of the
Department of Homeland Security.

The surge, say immigration advocates, reflects widespread ambiguity over the
direction of immigration legislation being debated in Congress. Although the
political tussle centers on illegal immigrants, many non-citizens residing in
this country legally are concerned that they and their families, here and in
their homelands, could be affected.

``People get worried that they will change the rules, and the changing of the
rules will impact them personally, in terms of their status,'' said Rep. Luis
Gutierrez, D-Ill., who chairs the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task
Force. ``Immigration policy is complicated enough. If you're a recent immigrant,
legally here, the debate here is scary.''

In January, about 50 people attended a ``citizenship workshop'' at Hogar
Hispano, an immigrant-services program of Catholic Charities in Arlington, Va.
At the workshop, volunteers helped eligible permanent residents -- those who
have held green cards for at least five years -- fill out naturalization forms.

In March, 88 people showed up. And last month, there were 92 -- the largest
turnout coordinator Esmael Hussieni has seen in the nine years he has overseen
the workshops. He said good weather and better marketing efforts played a role
in the rise. So did fear.

``Even lately, with the green card, people don't think it's going to be safe,''
he said.

In other parts of the country, groups working with immigrants say they are
seeing similar jumps in applicants. In Chicago, more than 1,000 people showed up
for a citizenship workshop April 29, said Gutierrez, who helped promote the
event. Organizers were expecting about 300 to 400, he said.

The number of applicants had been rising steadily in recent years. The reasons
include more nations permitting their citizens to hold dual nationality and U.S.
government cutbacks in social services and other benefits for non-citizens.

In the past, fear has spurred surges in citizenship applications. After approval
of Proposition 187, a never-implemented 1994 California ballot initiative that
was intended to cut services to undocumented immigrants, applications soared.
The same happened after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, as many
immigrants wanted to show solidarity with their adopted homeland or wanted not
to be targeted by a backlash.

This time, the surge can be traced back to mid-December, when the House of
Representatives passed tough legislation to tighten border security and force
employers to verify their employees' status, while rejecting an immigrant
guest-worker plan.

Last month, the Senate passed legislation that offers a path to citizenship for
many longtime illegal immigrants if they pay back taxes, learn English and have
committed no serious crimes. But the bill faces stiff opposition in the House.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 25, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Staying too long overseas puts green card in jeopardy

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words


Q My wife holds a green card, a 10-year card up for renewal in a couple of
years. I am an American citizen. I have been offered a position in Singapore
that would involve temporary relocation for up to three years. What is required
of my wife in regard to her green card, immigration status, etc? What forms
would I need to fill out? What about an address while abroad? We will most
likely rent out our house. Can I use a family member's address?

Leon BrownSan Jose

A Travel abroad for green card holders is generally hassle-free. But the problem
that most permanent residents run into is the length of time they stay abroad.
Immigration lawyers and experts everywhere will tell your wife one thing: Don't
risk losing your green card by staying away too long.

As a permanent resident of the United States, a green card holder, you are
required to demonstrate that you intend to make your home here, and not abroad.

Details are available on the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS)
Web site (http://www.uscis.gov/graphics/howdoi/PermRes.htm#travel). Click on
``Maintaining Permanent Residence.''

According to the USCIS, your wife would need a re-entry permit, Form I-131. Such
permits, the USCIS said, are required for trips lasting more ``than one year but
less than two years.''

Since you may be away for three years, it's important that your wife establish
that she does not intend to ``abandon'' her permanent U.S. residence status. The
time abroad will also affect your wife's future application for U.S.
citizenship.

Here's what the USCIS site on this issue says:

``You may be found to have abandoned your permanent resident status if you:

``Move to another country, intending to live there permanently.

``Remain outside of the U.S. for more than one year without obtaining a re-entry
permit or returning resident visa. However, in determining whether your status
has been abandoned, any length of absence from the U.S. may be considered, even
if it is less than one year.

``Remain outside of the U.S. for more than two years after issuance of a
re-entry permit without obtaining a returning resident visa.

``Fail to file income tax returns while living outside of the U.S. for any
period.

``Declare yourself a `non-immigrant' on your tax returns.''

This can be a complicated process. It would be wise for you and your wife to
consult an immigration lawyer or an accredited expert for advice.

Citizenship informational workshop: The USCIS has scheduled a free workshop in
San Jose, ``Overview of Naturalization.''

The workshop will be held in English from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on July 24, at the
Alum Rock Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave., San Jose. Call (408) 918-3986 to reserve
a space.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday

Mexico's Fox says Bush doubts bill on reform will pass;
TOLD IMMIGRATION CHANGES UNLIKELY IN ELECTION YEAR

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 491 words


The U.S. Congress is not likely to pass immigration reform this year, Mexican
President Vicente Fox quoted President Bush as saying Monday during a brief
conversation at the G-8 Summit luncheon in Russia -- meaning current proposals
would die.

In a press conference aboard his presidential plane, Fox told reporters that
with the pending November election and recess for campaigning, Bush said there
would be very little time for Congress to pass something that everyone can agree
on.

``The commitment will remain, the work will continue, but given the coming
electoral process, it will be very difficult to reach a final agreement on the
immigration issue,'' Fox said, quoting Bush.

The announcement made headlines in Mexican and Spanish media, but not in the
United States, possibly because the White House denies that's what Bush said.

``He acknowledged the limited number of days that Congress is in session, which
makes it doubtful that a bill will pass before the November election,'' said
White House spokesman Peter Watkins. ``But he will continue to push for a
comprehensive bill to be passed before Congress adjourns this year.''

Congress has set an adjournment date of Oct. 6, though sessions usually run far
beyond that date, often until the end of the year.

If Congress doesn't pass legislation this year, it would mean the death of two
opposing immigration bills -- a House bill stressing enforcement and a Senate
bill with a guest-worker program and paths to legalization -- that are now in
conference committee.

After a year of emotional debate, hearings and millions of people marching in
the streets over illegal immigration, Congress would have to begin the process
anew in the new session that begins in January.

Fox supports the Senate's more comprehensive plan for guest workers and
legalization, as does Bush, but he objects to border walls, fencing or use of
the National Guard at the border, which are part of both bills. The House
version also calls for the criminalization of anyone in the country without
documents, as well as anyone helping the undocumented. To many Mexicans, no
action is better than the House version.

Some critics have dismissed the latest round of immigration hearings being held
by House Republicans, including one July 5 in San Diego, as pre-election theater
to make the GOP look tough on the issue.

``As you know, they're holding hearings all over the country, trying to stir up
their base in an anti-immigrant fervor,'' said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who
agrees that no immigration reform will pass this session. ``It's red meat for
the right wing. They're not going to say, `We're not going to do anything.'
They're trying to get them to elect them to seal the border.''

But Republican leadership counters that it is sincere in its effort to resolve
the issue of roughly 500,000 people entering the country illegally each year.

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 18, 2006 Tuesday

Mexico's Fox says Bush doubts bill on reform will pass;
TOLD IMMIGRATION CHANGES UNLIKELY IN ELECTION YEAR

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 491 words


The U.S. Congress is not likely to pass immigration reform this year, Mexican
President Vicente Fox quoted President Bush as saying Monday during a brief
conversation at the G-8 Summit luncheon in Russia -- meaning current proposals
would die.

In a press conference aboard his presidential plane, Fox told reporters that
with the pending November election and recess for campaigning, Bush said there
would be very little time for Congress to pass something that everyone can agree
on.

``The commitment will remain, the work will continue, but given the coming
electoral process, it will be very difficult to reach a final agreement on the
immigration issue,'' Fox said, quoting Bush.

The announcement made headlines in Mexican and Spanish media, but not in the
United States, possibly because the White House denies that's what Bush said.

``He acknowledged the limited number of days that Congress is in session, which
makes it doubtful that a bill will pass before the November election,'' said
White House spokesman Peter Watkins. ``But he will continue to push for a
comprehensive bill to be passed before Congress adjourns this year.''

Congress has set an adjournment date of Oct. 6, though sessions usually run far
beyond that date, often until the end of the year.

If Congress doesn't pass legislation this year, it would mean the death of two
opposing immigration bills -- a House bill stressing enforcement and a Senate
bill with a guest-worker program and paths to legalization -- that are now in
conference committee.

After a year of emotional debate, hearings and millions of people marching in
the streets over illegal immigration, Congress would have to begin the process
anew in the new session that begins in January.

Fox supports the Senate's more comprehensive plan for guest workers and
legalization, as does Bush, but he objects to border walls, fencing or use of
the National Guard at the border, which are part of both bills. The House
version also calls for the criminalization of anyone in the country without
documents, as well as anyone helping the undocumented. To many Mexicans, no
action is better than the House version.

Some critics have dismissed the latest round of immigration hearings being held
by House Republicans, including one July 5 in San Diego, as pre-election theater
to make the GOP look tough on the issue.

``As you know, they're holding hearings all over the country, trying to stir up
their base in an anti-immigrant fervor,'' said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who
agrees that no immigration reform will pass this session. ``It's red meat for
the right wing. They're not going to say, `We're not going to do anything.'
They're trying to get them to elect them to seal the border.''

But Republican leadership counters that it is sincere in its effort to resolve
the issue of roughly 500,000 people entering the country illegally each year.

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 22, 2006 Saturday

Bush aide delivers immigration pitch;
U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL'S SPEECH DRAWS PROTESTERS FROM LEFT AND RIGHT

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 534 words


U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales came to the South Bay on Friday to make a
case for the Bush administration's plan for immigration reform, but was met with
protest and resistance from supporters and opponents of the plan's most
controversial provision: a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.

``Reform must be based on reality. We can't deport 12 million people,'' Gonzales
said, speaking before a crowd of 150 at the Marriott Hotel in Santa Clara,
during a public forum sponsored by the Commonwealth Club.

Outside, about 20 members of the Raging Grannies and anti-war protesters, held
up signs that declared, ``No War on Immigrants, Iraq, Iran.'' An hour after the
address, a couple of members of the group chanted in the hotel lobby as the
crowd left the room, ``Immigrants Have Human Rights/Grannies join in the
fight.''

In a hotel meeting room nearby, two officials from the Minuteman Civil Defense
Corps, a civilian border patrol group based in Arizona, called a news conference
to denounce the Bush proposal. A sign on the wall: ``Border Security First. No
Amnesty.''

Gonzales repeated the arguments he's made for several months in speeches and
news conferences across the country to drum up support for immigration reform
proposals being touted by President Bush.

``Reform that's anything short of comprehensive will not be nearly good
enough,'' he said. ``This is a very delicate and very complicated issue.''

The Bush plan calls for increased border security, a temporary guest-worker
program, an employee verification system and legalization for some undocumented
immigrants already living and working in the United States, after they've paid
taxes and penalties and committed to learning English.

But like the conflicting House of Representatives and U.S. Senate bills,
Gonzales acknowledged, there is no public consensus on immigration reform, as
mirrored in protests and denouncements at Friday's forum.

The Bush proposal for a temporary guest-worker program ``is a way of exploiting
workers. It won't lead to citizenship,'' said Ruth Robertson of the Raging
Grannies. Robertson supports legalization and a path to citizenship.

Immigrant advocates across the country have criticized the Bush plan as not
going far enough with legalization. And officials with the Minuteman, which
opposes any form of legalization, slammed it as ``unacceptable.''

``As this nation's highest-ranking law enforcement officer,'' said Al Garza,
executive director of the Minuteman, ``it is inexcusable that Attorney General
Alberto Gonzales would promote a blanket amnesty for people who have committed
such felonies as document fraud, identity theft and income tax evasion.''

In his address, Gonzales said, ``illegal immigration degrades the rule of law,''
but an earned legalization program is fair.

Asked during a question-and-answer session with the audience his opinion of the
Minuteman, Gonzales said: ``We live in a free society. But as a general matter,
law enforcement should be in the hands of law enforcement agencies.

``I understand the frustrations,'' he said. ``The bottom line is, we need to do
a better job on the border.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 4, 2006 Friday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 215 words

TEXAS

DeLay's listing on ballot headed to high court

The court fight to take Tom DeLay, the indicted former House majority leader,
off the November ballot in Texas will be taken to the U.S. Supreme Court,
Republican officials said Thursday.

The announcement came hours after a federal appeals court panel refused to allow
the Texas Republican Party to replace DeLay, who won the GOP nomination to run
for re-election in the March primary election and then changed his mind.

DeLay is under indictment on charges of money laundering and conspiracy relating
to illegal donations allegedly being funneled to Texas legislative campaigns in
2002. DeLay resigned from Congress in June.

Bush renews appeal for immigration action

President Bush visited the Southwest frontier Thursday to highlight recent
improvements in border security and counter the ongoing attack by House
Republicans on the broad revisions he is seeking in immigration law.

Bush again urged Congress to act, reiterating his call for an overhaul of
immigration laws that encompasses tougher enforcement, a guest-worker program
and some accommodation for the 12 million illegal immigrants in the United
States.

The president stopped at the border on his way to Crawford, where he will take a
working vacation.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 15, 2006 Tuesday

More people become citizens;
NATURALIZATION IS SEEN AS WAY TO SECURE RIGHTS

BYLINE: Ryan Sholin, MediaNews

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words


In 1999, Vietnam finally let Tuan Nguyen leave his homeland. When he arrived in
the Bay Area, where his wife and son had been living without him for seven
years, he wanted to file for citizenship as soon as he could.

``Becoming a citizen is like becoming a family member,'' Nguyen said. ``It's
more secure than if you are a guest.''

According to U.S. census data released this week, the number of naturalized
foreign-born citizens in California increased by 4 percent between 2000 and
2005. Now, 43 percent of immigrants count themselves as citizens, up from 39
percent in 2000. The leap was even bigger in the Bay Area, led by an 8 percent
jump in Santa Clara County and a 7 percent rise in Alameda County.

Experts said the increase can largely be attributed to changes in U.S.
immigration policy that have made legal permanent residents eager to become
citizens with a full slate of rights.

``I've done more naturalization cases in the last year than the prior 10 years
of practicing,'' said Randall Caudle, a San Francisco immigration lawyer.
``They're tired of hearing anti-immigration rhetoric from a lot of these
politicians.''

The census data also revealed a first for the Bay Area, although not an
unexpected one: Whites now make up less than half of the region's population --
46 percent -- down from 50 percent in 2000. Asians comprise 22 percent of the
area's population, up from 19 percent. More than one in five Bay Area residents,
22 percent, listed themselves as Latino.

Both trends, experts say, are the extension of developments that started in the
1990s. But Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the
University of Southern California, said talk of laws targeting illegal
immigration has started to make legal residents nervous about their citizenship
status.

Pachon said immigrants increasingly are thinking of citizenship as a
``self-defense document.''

Larisa Casillas, director of the Oakland-based Bay Area Immigrant Rights
Coalition, said the build-up of what she called ``anti-immigrant sentiment''
over the past several years has made naturalization look more attractive than
ever.

``A lot of benefits come with citizenship,'' Casillas said. ``One of those
benefits is the right to vote.''

But fear of proposed legislation and the desire to vote in November aren't the
only possible reasons for the surge in naturalization. Since the Sept. 11
attacks, tighter border security and tougher travel rules have made it more
difficult for immigrants -- legal or not -- to visit their home countries.

Casillas said legal residents sometimes cut down on travel because leaving the
country might be counted against them when they apply for naturalization.

``Folks that I have talked to that have become naturalized citizens are
attracted to the fact that they have a lot more mobility,'' she said.

Pachon said changes in foreign law also could be a factor. In July 2004, the
Mexican government indefinitely extended a law allowing citizens living abroad
to file for dual citizenship. Mexican immigrants no longer have to give up their
rights to own property and to vote in Mexico when they become naturalized
American citizens.

Nguyen, 52, works for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, the same
San Jose advocacy group that helped him apply for naturalization. As a lawyer in
Vietnam, Nguyen was not allowed to leave the communist nation because he was
classified as an intellectual.

``They want to control those people,'' Nguyen said.

Now, he helps other immigrants navigate their way through citizenship paperwork
while he works on degrees in computer science and social work at San Jose State
University.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 21, 2006 Monday

Intervention in asylum case;
CONGO WOMAN RAPED DURING INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: Henry Weinstein, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 490 words


The U.S. Justice Department has asked federal immigration officials to reopen a
political asylum case that was denied despite strong evidence that the
petitioner was repeatedly raped for six weeks by Congolese officials allegedly
investigating the 2001 assassination of President Laurent Kabila.

Such intervention by the Justice Department is rare, and human rights attorneys
applauded the decision. They are concerned that if the original decision to deny
asylum stands, it could, by implication, make legitimate the use of rape in the
course of an investigation.

The woman at the center of the case, identified as Monique M, fled the
Democratic Republic of Congo, formerly known as Zaire, and is living with a
friend in San Antonio.

Anibal Martinez, a Justice Department attorney, and Jayne Fleming of Oakland, a
specialist in political asylum cases who first sought to have the case reopened,
filed a joint brief on Monique's behalf last week with the Executive Office of
Immigration Review.

The attorneys argued that new evidence shows that the Congolese prosecutor and
his subordinates ``may not have been pursuing a legitimate investigative
purpose'' when they detained her. They say that Col. Charles Alamba, the
prosecutor, was himself a criminal who was later convicted of murder.

In affirming the immigration judge's decision not to grant Monique asylum, the
5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals concluded she was not eligible because she did
not prove she would be persecuted in her home country under one of five defined
categories: because of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular
social group or political opinion. The rapes and prolonged imprisonment she
suffered were part of a ``legitimate investigation,'' the New Orleans-based
appeals court held in March.

That reasoning is disputed in briefs filed in the case.

``Repeated rapes are never part of a legitimate investigation. Rape is
torture,'' wrote law Professors Karen Musalo of the University of California's
Hastings College of Law in San Francisco and Joseph Vail of the University of
Houston Law Center. In asking the 5th Circuit to rehear the case, they cited a
December 1994 U.N. resolution denouncing systematic rape as a weapon of war.

Monique was falsely accused of being involved in Kabila's assassination because
she was considered a political opponent, the professors said, and a person
persecuted for political views has a basis for asylum.

Among those who have expressed dismay over the appeals court ruling is Eleanor
Acer, an attorney with Human Rights First in New York. ``The decision is very
disturbing because it essentially views government investigations that involve
torture and rape as some kind of legitimate criminal investigation,'' Acer said.

The bid to reopen the case comes just weeks after Congo held its first
democratic elections in more than four decades. The country's 1998-2002 civil
war claimed about 4 million lives.

An Amnesty International report in October 2004 stated that tens of thousands of
women and girls had been the ``victims of systematic rape and sexual assault
committed by combatant forces,'' and that the war left parts of the country in a
lawless state.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday

Pluto demoted; pity poor February

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 845 words


With the recent astronomical demotion of Pluto to dwarf planet status, it is
time to turn our attention to the calendar and review February's status.
February, the only month with fewer than 30 days, by similar logic should become
a monthoid -- rather than remain a true month. Seems it's time to call the
calendar experts together for debate and a vote.

Rodney B. ThornSan Jose

A law to help immigrant minors

Your front-page news story featuring undocumented co-valedictorian, merit
scholar, senior class president and now college student Hector Vega is an
inspiration (Page 1A, Aug. 24). California and our nation can benefit from the
ambition, intelligence and courage of people like Vega. He deserves our support
to continue his education and to become a U.S. citizen. The DREAM Act
(Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors), S1291, now part of the
Kennedy-McCain bill in the Senate version of comprehensive immigration reform,
will allow promising students like Vega a path to legalization. Within the
contentious debate on immigration reform the DREAM Act makes sense.

Laura Casas Frier,

trustee, Foothill-De Anza

Community College District;

Santa Clara University alumnaLos Altos

Many complexities in stem-cell debate

Embryos at the two-cells stage, if separated in the womb, will yield identical
twins. In a similar manner, cow embryos at the eight-cell stage can be separated
into individual cells and implanted into different surrogate cows to yield eight
identical calves. These and other results demonstrate the potential of the
individual cell at this early stage to yield a fully formed organism. Advanced
Cell Technology (ACT) has generated stem-cell lines from single cells gathered
from human embryos at the 8-to-10-cell stage (Page 1A, Aug. 24). If the ethical
debate surrounding the use of early embryos for stem-cell research revolves
around the belief that a cell's potential to yield a fully formed human (e.g. at
fertilization) entitles it to the same rights as a baby, it's not clear to me
how ACT's work circumvents this issue. It seems that if one is against the
destruction of a human embryo because it has the ``potential'' to result in a
human life, one must also be against procedures that can result in destruction
of cells that have similar potentials. Perhaps this work from ACT will expand
the debate from the simplistic question ``Do you believe that life begins at
fertilization?'' when the reality is so much more complex and nuanced.

Huan PhanBelmont

Immigrants aren't ruining America

There may be a strong case to be made for limiting immigration, but Pat
Buchanan's alarming appeal to racist fear (Op-ed, Aug. 24) does not come close
to making it. Our national history shows a painful, halting, but unmistakable
progression toward the repudiation of racism, a progression anchored in the
Declaration of Independence's assertion that all men are created equal. Looking
at some of the immigrant groups in California, I see more positives than
negatives. For example, many Asian immigrants show an exemplary devotion to
education, work and family. Many are also willing to learn about and even
embrace the Judeo-Christian understanding of reality which has defined Western
civilization since the fall of the Roman Empire.

Roger BonillaSunnyvale

Chavez stands up for neighborhoods

When I read the article about testing Watson Park residences, I was not
surprised to see that Cindy Chavez stood up for neighborhoods (Page 1B, Aug.
25). She has always looked out for the residents of San Jose and is willing to
put forth extra effort to keep them safe. San Jose needs more elected officials
who are willing to go ``above and beyond'' for the city and its residents.

Connie DeWittSan Jose

Chavez missed important event

As a Democrat, I found it odd that mayoral candidate Cindy Chavez chose not to
attend the COMPAC barbecue because of the mailers that attacked her (Page 1B,
Aug. 25). Chavez claims she has the skills to bring people together, create jobs
and become mayor; I don't think boycotting the COMPAC barbecue is a sign of a
strong person, nor is it a sign of someone who can overcome differences and
bring people together. It's time to get over it; there are more important
matters in San Jose that a mayoral candidate should be concerned about.

Denelle FedorSan Jose

Islamists want us to stop interfering

It should be self-evident that some Islamist fighters are driven by our use of
military force against them in their own homeland. But Larry Yelowitz (Letters,
Aug. 24) rejects the obvious and asks why, then, there is terrorism in a number
of countries which President Bush has not yet attacked and invaded? Because
violence anywhere begets more violence. The definitive explanation comes from
one of the London suicide bombers, who left a posthumous message stating his
motivation. It read, ``Your democratically elected governments continuously
perpetuate atrocities against my people all over the world.'' They don't ``hate
our freedom.'' They want to be free of our interference in their countries.

Peter van der LindenLos Altos

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 2, 2006 Saturday

IMMIGRATION RIGHTS BACKERS MARCHING ON;
COUNTERPROTEST ALSO SET MONDAY AS BOTH SIDES SEEK TO SEND MESSAGE TO CONGRESS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words


Immigrants and their advocates in the Bay Area and across the country will hit
the streets once more on Labor Day in their latest effort to push for
legislation that would give millions of illegal immigrants a path to
citizenship.

Local organizers -- a coalition from labor, immigrant advocacy and church groups
-- say they hope to match the turnout at rallies in May, when 125,000 marched
for immigrant rights in San Jose. Massive rallies in other U.S. cities at the
time prompted organizers to call it ``the new civil rights movement.''

But without the official backing of major labor unions and other national
groups, Monday's march is likely to be a smaller affair, organized primarily by
local immigrant groups seeking to send a last-ditch message to Congress before
it adjourns in the fall. It's not clear if Congress will take up two immigration
reform bills next week.

San Jose police said they expect 20,000 to 25,000 people to participate, about
the same as the first immigrants' march in April. Police in San Francisco
estimate 3,000 to 5,000 will march there.

``We are encouraging union members to attend, but we're not an official
sponsor,'' said Salvador Bustamante, regional vice president for Local 1877 of
the Service Employees International Union in San Jose, which helped draw
thousands of workers in the two marches.

Bustamante said he plans to march in San Jose on Monday, with individual SEIU
members. At a Friday news conference, day-workers from Mountain View, San Mateo
and Redwood City announced they will participate.

An ``Anti-Illegal Immigration Rally'' counterprotest will be held Monday morning
on Cypress Avenue, near San Tomas Expressway in San Jose, organized by
www.illegalimmigrantprotest.com, which held similar protests in May.

Marches are also planned in Los Angeles, Chicago and Phoenix. Thursday, another
march is scheduled in Washington, D.C.

``We are energized and we'd like to keep going because it's really important to
work together,'' said Maria Marroquin, director of the Worker Center at Calvary
Church in Mountain View, one of the San Jose march's organizers.

For the past week, Jose Sandoval, organizer of the San Jose rally, has been
handing out fliers in Spanish and English to shoppers at Mi Pueblo Plaza on King
Road. He's also been collecting supporter signatures on a large banner that
marchers will carry to San Jose City Hall. Local Spanish radio stations have
also promoted the event, he said.

Opponents of congressional legislation that would give illegal immigrants a path
to citizenship doubt the effectiveness of the marches.

``We're not anti-immigrant,'' said Roberta Allen, organizer of the
counterprotest planned on Labor Day. ``We're anti-illegal immigrant. We've got
laws in place. They need to abide by those rules and laws.''

``Today We March, Tomorrow We Vote,'' is a theme that immigrant marchers are
invoking, in a clear political signal to legislators considering immigration
reform bills. HR 4437, an enforcement-focused bill approved by the U.S. House of
Representatives in April, would make it a federal felony to live in the United
States illegally. SB 2611, a bill approved by the U.S. Senate in May, would beef
up border security while giving legal status to illegal immigrants already here.
Eventually it would provide a path to citizenship.

With the elections coming in November, opponents and supporters of both bills
said it is unlikely that Congress will negotiate a combination of the two bills
this session.

Still, immigrants and their advocates said a Labor Day march could send a
powerful message.

``We are continuing our mobilization,'' said Terrence Valen, organizational
director for the Filipino Community Center in San Francisco. ``We're reminding
Congress that there's an immigrant rights movement asking for just and humane
immigration laws.''

During the march in San Jose, workers from immigrant groups will register
eligible voters as part of a campaign to mobilize the immigrant vote, said
Martha Campos, program director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network. The San Jose group recently launched a campaign to increase political
participation among immigrants.

El Comite de Padres Unidos, an East Bay group, and Voluntarios de la Comunidad
in San Jose also will register voters.

``It's important to be present at the march, but it's not just about marching,''
Campos said. ``Mobilizing the vote is an effective way to get the immigrant
voice heard.''

IF YOU'RE INTERESTEDMarchers will gather at 4 p.m. at the parking lot of Mi
Pueblo grocery story, at King and Story roads. They will head down Santa Clara
Street to City Hall at Santa Clara and Fourth streets. The anti-illegal
immigration rally will be held from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Cypress Avenue
overpass, off Stevens Creek Boulevard near San Tomas Expressway.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday

Chung: Immigration debate changes tenor at home

BYLINE: L.A. Chung, Mercury News Columnist

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words


Maybe it's no surprise that on Labor Day, the crowds who marched in support of
immigration reform -- on both sides of the political spectrum -- didn't swell
Story Road or the Cypress Street overpass with the passion and the numbers of
May.

As Congress came back to work Tuesday, even people outside the Beltway can sense
the stasis that fall brings. The prospect of any kind of immigration reform
legislation is disappearing as congressional leaders decide what their
legislative priorities are before the 109th Congress comes to a close.

``If anyone was a betting person, I guess he'd be putting money on an impasse,''
said Dorothy Wong, the executive director of the Organization of Chinese
Americans in Washington, D.C. Her group, along with several other organizations
with immigrant constituencies, is continuing the postcard campaign ``We Are
America'' that they launched last summer.

I called the OCA specifically because it's not the typical group one thinks of
when it comes to immigration reform. In fact, some Asian-Americans don't even
recognize their part in the debate.

Attitude change

As a student of history and government, I used to be fascinated and energized by
the political process. Skirmishes still seemed in service to the common good (or
maybe I was overly influenced both by '60s idealism and Norman Rockwell
paintings). With the polarization of popular discourse, politics seem more like
scripted performance.

Now I spend a bit more time reflecting on the kitchen table insights to get a
gut read on ordinary peoples' viewpoints. It helps me avoid cynicism, maybe even
maintain a ``sunny side of the street'' optimism.

``They're doing the same thing to the Mexicans they did to the Chinese,'' my
father said out of the blue, with a philosophical tone, to my husband over
barbecued ribs this weekend.

That Dad is even talking to my husband represents a gradual evolution in
attitude, since he didn't really acknowledge him for many years before our
marriage. Perhaps Dad realized my husband wasn't going away. My husband is a
Mexican by birth and an American by nationality. My father, an American born in
China to an American citizen, perhaps instinctively recognizes he has some
things in common with my husband: They are both immigrants, and they both have
endured the stings of discrimination.

Dad's not talking about the impact of one set of proposed legislation, which
will affect Chinese and Ivory Coast immigrants just as surely as it will affect
Mexicans or Cubans. He's talking about the venality he's seen of the debate, or
heard on the streets.

And he's reading between the lines.

One law, real lives

Dad is thinking of the Chinese Exclusion Act, which limited most Chinese
immigration from 1882 to 1943. It's a line in the history books for me, but a
reality he lived with and worked around for a good part of his life, his
father's and grandfather's lives. Even though he grew up in North Dakota, made
Eagle Scout, led a Boy Scouts troop, backpacked across the Grand Canyon, Dad
still has an immigrant's views after 89 years, most of them in this country.

In his advanced years, he's philosophical. Of course a comprehensive approach is
needed. The situation didn't develop overnight. Another Congress may have to
wrestle with it.

``We all recognize the immigration issue is going to be very, very
contentious,'' Wong said. ``We may now have time to take another look at where
people stand, what's behind some of the contention . . . and reach out and see
the commonality that we do have,'' Wong said.

Maybe impasse is a good thing. It changed the tenor of my Dad's kitchen table
discussions.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercury news.com or (408) 920-5280.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 618 words

LOS ANGELES

National Latino meeting kicks off first of 4 days

What is being hailed as the largest gathering of Latino leaders in decades began
Wednesday with promises to re-energize a campaign urging lawmakers to offer a
path to citizenship to more than 11 million illegal immigrants.

The four-day National Latino Congreso comes as the U.S. Congress returns for its
fall session having all but shelved immigration reform after the issue dominated
the national agenda earlier this year.

The gathering of hundreds also comes as the immigration reform movement that
brought hundreds of thousands of marchers to the streets this spring tries to
regain momentum after internal divisions and summer vacations.

Sessions include speeches and workshops on registering Latino voters, running
Latino political candidates, wage gaps between Latinos and whites, environmental
issues and a lack of access to health care in immigrant communities.

Speakers include Los Angeles Cardinal Roger Mahony, an outspoken advocate of
legalizing undocumented immigrants, Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los
Angeles, and the Rev. Al Sharpton. The conference culminates Saturday afternoon
with a rally.

SAN DIEGO

Attack on TV reporter caught by cameraman

A television reporter was bitten and beaten as he and his cameraman, who
captured the attack on video, tried to do a story on a couple they believed were
involved in a real estate scam.

Reporter John Mattes of Fox 6 News sustained cracked ribs, bite wounds and cuts
to his face during Tuesday's confrontation with the couple, identified by
authorities as Assad ``Sam'' Suleiman, 36, and his wife, Rosa Amelia Barraza,
33.

Mattes accused Suleiman of stealing identities so he could buy houses and then
rent them to others, according to Fox 6.

Barraza, who during the confrontation threatened to get a gun, was booked for
investigation of making a terrorist threat, displaying a deadly weapon, battery
and theft for allegedly stealing the cameraman's microphone, police Lt. Dan
Christman said.

The lieutenant said Suleiman was booked for investigation of felony assault.

Police detective Gary Hassen said the pair posted bail Tuesday night.

BAKERSFIELD

No signs up in Spanish warning lake swimmers

City officials said they will not post signs in Spanish warning swimmers there
is no lifeguard on duty at a pair of artificial lakes where two people have
drowned this year.

``We will not be posting signs that are in additional languages because of
course English is the official language,'' City Attorney Ginny Gennaro said.

``And I think most people would understand once you start posting signs in
Spanish, where do you stop? I mean that really becomes a real slippery slope,''
she said.

In July, the city added caution signs around the two lakes at the Park at River
Walk after 8-year-old Jasmine Korin was pulled from the west lake and later
died.

Juan Ramirez-Calderon, 31, died Monday after he tried to swim across the same
lake. Emergency workers said his family did not speak English.

SANTA ANA

Contrite murderer gets 15 years to life in prison

A man who took authorities by surprise when he came forward and admitted killing
a woman he met in a bar 19 years ago was sentenced Tuesday to 15 years to life
in prison.

Authorities had no idea Louis Bostich killed Jamie Vitteli in 1987 until he
turned himself in last year. He eventually pleaded guilty to second-degree
murder.

He confessed while taking part in an Alcoholics Anonymous program in which he
was encouraged to right his wrongs and make amends.

``I never met a more sincerely remorseful man,'' said his public defender, Derek
Bercher.

Bostich, 45, must serve at least 10 years before becoming eligible for parole.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

Justices weigh deportation for possessing illegal drugs

BYLINE: David G. Savage, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 573 words


The Supreme Court debated Tuesday whether thousands of longtime legal immigrants
in the United States, including business owners and military veterans, must be
deported if they have been convicted of drug possession.

At issue is how to interpret a stiff 10-year federal law which demands
deportation for legal immigrants who commit ``aggravated felonies.'' Despite the
law's focus on expelling felons and drug traffickers, the government in recent
years has insisted on deporting some immigrants who pleaded guilty to possessing
drugs, sometimes just small amounts of marijuana.

Although those crimes are considered minor matters under federal law, in some
states they are classified as felonies. Government attorneys in those states
contend that the federal deportation law can be used in those cases.

Several justices voiced doubt about this approach during the oral argument
Tuesday.

``Isn't that very strange that Congress would have wanted a reading of the
statute that would turn its definition of a misdemeanor crime into an aggravated
felony for purposes of the immigration laws?'' asked Justice David Souter.

Defending the government's approach, Deputy Solicitor General Edwin Kneedler
said the law as Congress wrote it ``looks to state law.'' If a drug crime is a
felony under state law, it is a felony that leads to deportation under federal
law, he said.

Chief Justice John Roberts told the government's attorney, ``It must give you
pause that your analysis of a term `drug trafficking' offense . . . leads to the
conclusion that simple possession equates with drug trafficking.''

The case before the court illustrates the issue.

Jose Lopez came to this country from Mexico in 1985 and became a lawful
resident. In 1997, he was married and the father of two children, and owned a
taco stand and grocery store in Sioux Falls, S.D., when he admitted that he told
someone how to obtain cocaine.

This would be a misdemeanor under federal law, but it was a felony under South
Dakota law resulting in up to five years in prison. Lopez served 15 months in
prison and was released.

Federal authorities then took him into custody, and he was deported to Mexico
for his crime, even though he was not convicted of buying or selling the drug.

Immigrants-rights groups urged the Supreme Court to limit deportation under the
federal law only to those who are drug traffickers.

``Effectively, what the government is arguing is that states can banish
non-citizens and can do so by enacting drug laws deciding to make a simple
possession offense a felony,'' Robert Long, an attorney for Lopez, told the
justices. ``It's highly unlikely Congress would have left that determination to
the states.''

There is no doubt, however, that Congress wanted to make it easier to deport
immigrants who committed serious crimes in the United States. Once deemed guilty
of an ``aggravated felony,'' such as drug trafficking, these legal immigrants
must be deported, under the terms of the 1996 law.

That, in turn, has focused attention on what drug crimes are deemed as felonies.
The government said four states -- Florida, Nevada, North Dakota and Oregon --
make it a felony to possess a small amount of marijuana.

In briefs to the court, immigrants-rights groups cited the example of legal
immigrants who are gulf war veterans, owners of successful restaurants and
established business owners who faced deportation because they have a state drug
conviction on their records.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 26, 2006 Friday

THERE'S A WILL, THERE'S A WAY

BYLINE: Kevin G. Hall, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words


One by one, men and women crawled on their knees and bellies across the hot red
desert sands less than 100 yards from where rumbling tractor-trailer rigs
crossed from Mexico into Arizona.

President Bush and Congress have vowed to seal America's border with thousands
of National Guard soldiers, miles of fences, surveillance cameras and aerial
drones.

But here in the Mariposa Canyon, the government's plan faces reality.

In groups of 10 to 16 immigrants, men, women and children routinely cross the
border, led by brazen smugglers called polleros (chicken herders). It all
happens in broad daylight, under a blazing sun, around and through the
12-foot-high wall that the U.S. government erected in the late 1990s to keep
them out.

The scene unfolds under the noses of Customs and Border Patrol agents. Once
across, the immigrants dash to a warehouse parking lot, where their ride awaits
to take them to a safe house in the Arizona border town of Nogales.

Monday, the pollerosallowed a Knight Ridder reporter and photographer to view
their world up close. The men, many in their 20s, earn about $100 a head for
sneaking mostly Mexicans into the United States. From there, the illegal
immigrants will fan out to look for work wherever they can find it.

Finding smugglers is easy along this stretch of border. At one wooden shack,
more than a dozen of them were gathered, all talking at once on their cell
phones and walkie-talkies. The shack was a stone's throw from the Mexican
government's border crossing.

In turn, the pollerosled groups of Mexicans down a trash-covered ravine to the
12-foot-high metal fence that guards the border. The fence is routinely cut to
allow passage.

At the point closest to the U.S. crossing station, the immigrants crawled on
their bellies and through a cattle gate instead of the high metal fence.

``They should've gone that way,'' said one smuggler as he watched from the top
of the canyon. There was a crowd around the rickety shack, and the men all
commented and criticized the tactics of the smugglers below, as if analyzing a
soccer game.

A few hours later, a Border Patrol agent in his dark green outfit started
walking the U.S. side of the ravine.

Suddenly, after several hours of uninterrupted traffic, it was a race back into
Mexico for a group of about 16 immigrants, including a mother and a daughter
younger than 5. When the U.S. agent slipped on the steep terrain, the gathered
smugglers pumped their fists and cheered loudly as if someone had just scored a
goal.

Undaunted, the 16 marched back along the Mexican side of the border to regroup
safely behind the large metal border fence.

Three smugglers, all young men from the state of Sinaloa, a drug-trafficking
hub, waved over the reporter to accompany them as they tried to cross.

The smugglers identified themselves only by their street-gang nicknames -- El
Chumi, El Cholo and El Tacohuayo.

``Why do you want to build a wall when we'll just find a way around it?'' said a
defiant Chumi.

The pudgy, baby-faced smuggler complained repeatedly that Mexicans were just
seeking work and should not face such obstacles to entry. All efforts to stop
smugglers will fail, he insisted.

Since Oct. 1, 2005, more than 288,000 illegal entrants have been apprehended in
and around Nogales. Almost 489,000 were caught at this location in 2005.

But with an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States,
many are not caught -- as was evident on this scorching afternoon.

Juan Carlos, a timid man from the state of Puebla, quietly interrupted the
sermon of the man smuggling him to America.

``If the U.S. doesn't want illegal workers, why are companies coming here to
contract them?'' he asked, telling of recruiters who come through his region
south of Mexico City with buses. They offer to take people across to waiting
jobs, he said. The cost of the transit would be deducted from their pay.

During the only moment the smugglers were out of earshot, one man said he paid
$1,000 to be taken across the border. Another angrily referred to the smugglers
as corruptos, or the corrupt ones.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday

Bush tries to straddle divide over illegal immigration to U.S.;
TOUGH TALK: BUSINESS LIKES CHEAP LABOR, BUT VOTERS WANT SECURE BORDERS

BYLINE: Ron Hutcheson, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 601 words


President Bush vowed Monday to get tough on illegal immigration, promising
stricter laws, better border enforcement and swift deportation for anyone caught
sneaking into the country.

Speaking near one of the busiest illegal crossing points on the nation's
2,000-mile border with Mexico, Bush also renewed his push for a temporary-worker
program as part of a larger effort to stem the flow of undocumented immigrants.

``Our responsibility is clear: We're going to protect the border,'' the
president told a supportive invitation-only crowd at Davis-Monthan Air Force
Base in Tucson. ``We want to make clear that when people violate our immigration
laws, they are going to be sent home -- and they need to stay at home.''

Bush delivered the get-tough talk at a time when polls show increasing
frustration over illegal immigration, especially in the Southwest. Angry calls
about the seemingly endless flow of illegal immigrants have become a staple of
conservative talk radio.

Some of the president's conservative supporters were appalled by his earlier
emphasis on a temporary-worker program that would let many of the estimated 11
million illegal immigrants in this country obtain legal status. The proposal has
stalled in Congress, in large part because of opposition from Bush's fellow
Republicans.

With his job-approval ratings at the lowest point of his presidency, Bush can
ill afford to offend social conservatives. His new emphasis on curbing illegal
immigration is part of a bid to reinvigorate his support base.

But Bush said any comprehensive package should include both tougher enforcement
and a temporary-worker program.

His plan would let workers stay in the country for up to six years, after which
they would have to return home. Temporary workers wouldn't be on a special track
toward citizenship.

The president said the temporary-worker program would ``help meet the demands of
a growing economy'' by giving employers a legal source of workers. He called for
a new tamper-proof identification card to help employers detect illegal
immigrants.

Anticipating critics, Bush said his proposal was not a form of amnesty for
illegal workers.

``Rewarding those who have broken the law would encourage others to break the
law and keep pressure on our border. A temporary-worker program, by contrast,
would decrease pressure on the border,'' he said. ``For the sake of justice and
for the sake of our security, I'm not going to sign any immigration bill that
includes amnesty.''

The president, who in past speeches has praised illegal immigrants for their
contributions to America, also touched on some of the cultural concerns raised
by immigration.

His Arizona audience applauded and cheered when he said immigrants had an
obligation ``to learn our customs and values,'' as well as the English language.

``America's immigration laws apply across all of America, and we will enforce
those laws throughout our land,'' Bush said. ``American businesses have an
obligation to abide by the law, and our government has a responsibility to help
them do so.''

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a leader of House Republicans who are threatening to
block any immigration overhaul that includes a guest-worker program, said his
group would continue to oppose the program but that Bush was moving in their
direction by emphasizing tougher border control.

``I think that we've got him turned 75 percent of the way and we've got to keep
nudging,'' Tancredo said. ``There is a lot of stuff in there that I can
appreciate and I've waited five years for him to say.''

Knight Ridder correspondent Dave Montgomery contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday

Issue gains traction at the polls;
GOP ACTIVISTS SPLIT OVER BEST DIRECTION

BYLINE: Janet Hook, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1032 words


Illegal immigration has emerged as a major issue in political campaigns around
the country, adding an element of emotional intensity that Republicans hope will
excite their conservative supporters -- but that also threatens to split the
party.

The issue is most intense in states along the southern border, but concerns
about the flow of immigrants into the United States are cropping up in states
far removed from Mexico and Central America.

The debate pits advocates of strict new immigration limits against powerful
business interests that rely on cheap immigrant labor. That divide is apparent
in a number of contentious campaigns where immigration-control activists are
challenging establishment Republicans.

In California's Dec. 6 special election to fill the House seat that GOP Rep.
Christopher Cox gave up to head the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Republican front-runner is facing off against an activist who gained national
attention by helping organize volunteers to patrol the border.

In Idaho, a leading GOP candidate for a U.S. House seat made his name with
headline-grabbing efforts to counter illegal immigration.

In Arizona, a senior House Republican, facing a primary challenger who has
accused him of being soft on border security, has decided not to run for
re-election.

In other states, the battle over illegal immigration is expected to be joined in
ballot initiatives and various House, Senate and gubernatorial campaigns -- a
clear signal that it may be as prominent a social issue in the 2006 elections as
gay marriage was in 2004.

``Midterm elections are testing grounds for presidential election issues,'' said
Jennifer Duffy, an analyst for the non-partisan Cook Political Report. ``I
really believe that immigration is that issue for 2006. Whether immigration
dominates a race or shapes it, I expect every competitive race to engage on it
on some level.''

Some Republican strategists believe the immigration issue offers an opportunity
for the GOP to revive its flagging fortunes at a time when Bush and the party
have been hobbled by public discontent over the war in Iraq, the response to
Hurricane Katrina and ethics scandals.

``This is the best issue for them to recover on,'' said Bay Buchanan, a
conservative who helped found Team America PAC, which recruits and raises money
for candidates dedicated to stopping illegal immigration.

But the risk for Republicans is that as Bush continues to pursue his
long-cherished goal of attracting more Latinos to the GOP, a focus on illegal
immigration could inspire a political backlash like the one that hit California
Republicans in the mid-1990s. Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigration
measure championed in 1994 by then-Gov. Pete Wilson and other state Republican
leaders, galvanized much of the Latino community against the GOP.

``There is so much ambivalence among Republican leaders and moderates about
getting too far out on the issue,'' said Floyd Ciruli, a Denver pollster. ``This
is a tough issue for them.''

It also is an issue increasingly on the minds of Americans. An October survey by
the Pew Research Center for People and the Press found that 51 percent of people
polled believed that reducing illegal immigration should be a top priority -- up
from 42 percent in September 1997.

When Bush proposed an overhaul of immigration law in 2004, he called for a
guest-worker policy that would make it easier for undocumented immigrants to
stay in the United States -- a top business goal, but an idea strongly opposed
by some Republicans who regarded it as amnesty for lawbreakers.

Bush also has called for stricter border security.

Congress has enacted neither part of Bush's plan, but House GOP leaders are
planning a December vote on legislation aimed at toughening border security.
They are responding, in part, to growing frustration among the Republican rank
and file with inaction by Bush and Congress.

The Pew center's recent poll found that Bush's handling of immigration policy
was supported by only 36 percent of the Republicans surveyed.

That frustration has fueled groups such as the Minuteman Project, which garnered
national publicity for its efforts to organize volunteer border patrols. It has
inspired a spate of political candidacies that, even if they prove unsuccessful,
push other candidates to address the immigration issue.

Throughout Arizona, no issue seems to eclipse illegal immigration in importance.
Last year, a ballot initiative cutting off some public benefits was approved
with 56 percent of the vote -- despite opposition from political leaders of both
parties.

Republican Sen. Jon Kyl of Arizona, who is seeking re-election in 2006, is
stressing his support for a tough measure to send illegal immigrants back to
their home countries. The state's Democratic governor, Janet Napolitano, is
favored to win re-election -- in part because she has emphasized border
security. In August, she declared a state of emergency along Arizona's border
with Mexico to crack down on crime.

In nearby Utah, Republican Rep. Chris Cannon faces a second primary challenge
sparked by the immigration issue. He won a 2004 contest against an opponent who
attacked him as soft on border control. Buchanan, of the Team America PAC, said
her group and similar ones plan to make another effort to deny Cannon his
party's nomination in 2006.

Many Republicans from elsewhere in the country have been returning to
Washington, D.C., from visits to their home districts saying that concern about
illegal immigration is running high.

Amy Walter, an analyst for the Cook report, said that during a recent forum she
watched among GOP House candidates in Minnesota, questioning quickly turned to
the issue.

Even Democrats are taking a more hawkish stance on illegal immigration. Sen. Ben
Nelson, D-Neb., who is up for re-election in 2006, last week issued a news
release highlighting his support for a bill to strengthen border controls.

``When a Democratic senator from Nebraska is sending releases on border
security, it shows the issue has greater reach,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, an
independent political analyst. ``It's everywhere.''

Los Angeles Times Staff Writer Mark Z. Barabak contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday

Border security haunts election;
REPUBLICAN FAVORED IN U.S. HOUSE RACE

BYLINE: Michael R. Blood, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


The most interesting thing about the race to fill a vacant U.S. House seat in
Orange County -- one of the most secure Republican districts in the nation -- is
not who will probably win. The party's endorsed candidate, former car dealer
John Campbell, is so confident he already has a plane ticket to Washington.

Despite the likely outcome, the campaign has spotlighted an issue that could
play out in races across the country next year: illegal immigration.

In a district that is less than a two-hour drive to Mexico, the minor-party
candidacy of Jim Gilchrist, a founder of the Minuteman Project civilian border
patrols, is being driven by outrage over spongy border security and the tide of
illegal immigration.

An upset or closer-than-expected finish in today's election could push
immigration policy to the forefront as candidates gear up for midterm
congressional races next year and, further on, the 2008 presidential contest.

``This is one of the biggest cultural divides in the Republican Party,'' said
Democratic consultant Bill Carrick. Gilchrist, a former Republican running as a
candidate for the American Independent Party, ``is openly challenging the
president on this issue.''

The House seat in the conservative district was held for 17 years by Rep.
Christopher Cox, who left earlier this year to become President Bush's choice to
head the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Campbell is reliably conservative on issues like abortion, spending and taxes,
but he breaks from the president when it comes to the administration's
guest-worker plan.

Gilchrist has made immigration the centerpiece of his campaign. He describes
Campbell as too accommodating on the issue.

Three other candidates are on the ballot -- Democrat Steve Young, an attorney;
Libertarian Bruce Cohen, a real estate broker; and high school teacher Bea
Tiritilli, 42, the Green Party candidate.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday

Citizenship at birth targeted by some in GOP

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 653 words


It's been a cornerstone of U.S. law since shortly after the Civil War: Children
born in the United States become citizens, even if their parents are here
illegally.

Now some conservatives are taking aim at that birthright.

They call the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants ``anchor babies'' because
at age 18 the children can apply to bring other family members here from abroad,
and a growing group of House Republicans wants to change the policy. They hope
to add a provision to the immigration bill that the House of Representatives
will consider next week that would deny citizenship to those children.

Because of widespread opposition in the House and even more in the Senate, the
measure, even with 77 sponsors, is unlikely to become law, and would face a
constitutional challenge in court if it did.

But it is the latest in a series of get-tough immigration measures put forth in
recent weeks by GOP members of Congress. The proposals -- ranging from a fence
stretching the length of the border with Mexico to stiff sanctions for employers
who hire illegal immigrants -- almost ensure that illegal immigration will be a
central and divisive issue in next year's midterm elections.

The conservative wing of the Republican Party has been pushing hardest for the
measures, which go much further than President Bush's plan to strengthen
existing border security and establish a guest-worker program.

Those advocates see political support for their stance. A national poll last
month by the non-partisan Rasmussen Reports found that 49 percent favored
denying citizenship to U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants, with 41 percent
opposing such a proposal.

Supporters note that few countries -- none in Europe -- offer birthright
citizenship.

But Tamar Jacoby, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative
think tank, said that's why other countries have not been as successful at
integrating immigrants. The birthright proposal is the worst of the immigration
proposals floating around Washington and could be ``suicide'' for Republicans,
she said.

``To change the way we establish citizenship is such an extreme measure, and it
makes you really question what is motivating people to come up with those
ideas,'' said Rep. Charlie Gonzalez, D-Texas, whose grandparents emigrated from
Mexico. ``It just goes counter to what we are as a people, and I think it does
great harm.''

According to the Constitution's 14th Amendment, ratified in 1868 to give former
slaves U.S. citizenship, ``all persons born or naturalized in the United States
and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States.''

Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., a leading opponent of illegal immigration, said
citizens of other countries are not subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and he added
that drafters of the 14th Amendment did not intend it to apply to children of
illegal immigrants.

But in a case in 1898, the Supreme Court ruled that a Chinese immigrant born in
San Francisco was legally a U.S. citizen, even though federal law at the time
denied citizenship to people from China. The court said birth in the United
States constituted ``a sufficient and complete right to citizenship.''

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who serves on the House immigration subcommittee,
said it would take a constitutional amendment to deny birthright citizenship.

``You can only assume they are offering this for political reasons and not a
legal reason,'' she said.

Michele Waslin, director of immigration policy research at the National Council
of La Raza, a leading Latino organization, said people are coming to the United
States illegally for jobs, not to have children who must wait until they're 18
to petition to bring in other family members.

``I think it's unfortunate that some Republicans are trying to use innocent
babies to score political points,'' she said.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington. com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

Border-monitoring movement survives, expands

BYLINE: Arthur H. Rotstein, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 740 words


The Minuteman Project was launched earlier this year amid fears that racist
crackpots would rough up illegal immigrants trying to slip into this country.

But there was no bloodshed when the hundreds of volunteers converged in the
Arizona desert in April to watch for border crossers and report them to
immigration authorities.

Since then, the Minuteman movement has taken hold, with Minuteman-inspired
organizations launched in several states. One of the movement's co-founders made
a surprisingly strong showing in a bid for Congress earlier this month in
California. Even critics of the movement acknowledge its participants are not
all bigots or extremists.

Attention surrounding immigration problems helped attract ``a fairly broad
cross-section of middle Americans,'' said Mark Potok, director of the Southern
Poverty Law Center's Intelligence Project, which monitors hate groups. ``This is
partly driven by politicians falling all over each other over an issue that they
feel had some real resonance.''

Potok added, ``There are real strains of racism and anti-Semitism in this
movement.'' Still, ``the movement has attracted people who are not Klansmen or
neo-Nazis.''

The Minuteman Project was the brainchild of Jim Gilchrist, a retired accountant
from Orange County, who recruited participants through the Internet. The idea,
according to project organizers, was partly to draw attention to problems on the
Arizona-Mexico border, the most porous stretch of the 2,000-mile southern
border.

The group said about 900 people showed up for the April project. Schoolteachers
and retired veterans, businessmen and former corporate executives, some of them
armed, parked their pickups and RVs along a dusty, rutted road near Naco,
sitting in lawn chairs with binoculars to look for anyone trying to slip
illegally into the country.

Organizers said the volunteers' calls helped lead authorities to about 330
illegal immigrants. Critics -- the U.S. Border Patrol among them -- said the
Minutemen were little more than a nuisance. Among other things, officials said
the volunteers disrupted Border Patrol operations by unwittingly tripping
sensors that alert agents to intruders.

Nevertheless, the Minuteman Project succeeded in drawing attention to illegal
immigration.

In October, still more volunteers repeated the exercise in other states on the
Mexican and Canadian borders. Chris Simcox, one of the movement's co-founders,
said three dozen new chapters had formed by mid-November.

``It has moved into politics on the local, state and federal level, what we hope
is in every district in this country,'' Simcox said. ``We mean business.''

On Dec. 6, Gilchrist, a former Republican running as a third-party candidate in
a special House election in Orange County, finished a strong third with 25
percent of the vote.

``It was a clear sign from grass-roots organizations that politicians ought to
pay attention to the illegal-immigration issue,'' Jack Pitney, a government
professor at Claremont McKenna College, said at the time.

Gilchrist had hoped his showing could push federal immigration policy to the
forefront in next year's congressional races and influence the 2008 presidential
race. Many people in the district, located about two hours from the Mexican
border, have been frustrated with the growing population of illegal immigrants.

Dan Stein, president of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
advocates limits on immigration, said the Minuteman Project reflects a visceral
reaction to the ``national intrusion'' by illegal immigrants.

``There's a genuineness to this that has won over the hearts and minds of the
American public,'' Stein said.

Celestino Fernandez, a sociologist at the University of Arizona, said it is the
latest chapter in this country's history of resistance to waves of immigration
-- first to an influx of Chinese, later to people from southern and eastern
Europe.

``They're reasonable people, yes, they're good people, but they're also reacting
against demographic changes, just like every prior generation has reacted
against demographic changes of people whom they perceive as different,'' he
said.

The Minutemen see Latinos everywhere -- ``more in their states, whether it's the
South or the Midwest or East or New York City,'' Fernandez said. ``They keep
reading about the border and it's like a sieve -- people coming across, and
aren't they going to control it, and the government's not doing anything.''

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 11, 2006 Wednesday

License proposal re-introduced;
GOVERNOR VETOED IDENTICAL LEGISLATION ALLOWING ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO DRIVE

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 721 words


Despite six failed attempts over the past seven years, state Sen. Gil Cedillo on
Tuesday re-introduced his proposal to allow illegal immigrants to apply for
driver's licenses.

And no matter what happens politically, the measure is sure to drive a
contentious debate far beyond the state Capitol between undocumented workers who
say they are in California to meet labor demands, and conservatives who insist
the state must not reward those who violate federal immigration laws.

The new legislation, SB 1160, is identical to last year's SB 60, which Gov.
Schwarzenegger vetoed in October, saying the measure ``could undermine national
security efforts to identify individuals who pose enormous risk to the safety of
Californians.''

Schwarzenegger's press secretary reiterated that stance Tuesday.

``The governor remains firm in his commitment to put public safety before any
other issue,'' Margita Thompson said. She added that Schwarzenegger still
believes that issuing the licenses would be premature because the state is
awaiting federal regulations on how to comply with standards Congress has
approved for licenses.

Those guidelines, known as Real ID, will require by 2008 that every driver
obtain a new license to meet national standards. States would be allowed to
issue licenses to drivers who cannot prove legal status, though the license
cannot be used for identification purposes.

Both sides raise public safety

Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, says the public is at risk when more than 2 million
illegal immigrants drive the state's roads untested, unlicensed and uninsured.
``Californian's are moderate, fair, and they want the same thing all Americans
want: security and safety,'' Cedillo told reporters in his office.

He added that Californians also should feel safer if illegal immigrants' names,
addresses and photographs were part of a statewide database, such as the one
held by the Department of Motor Vehicles.

The licenses he envisions would carry a distinct mark -- something
Schwarzenegger suggested two years ago as a condition of his approval, which
Cedillo at first rejected, saying the distinction was akin to a Star of David
that Jews were made to wear in Nazi Germany.

As he did last year, Cedillo shaped the proposal to comply with the upcoming
federal guidelines.

Cedillo offered varying reasons when asked why he believes his proposed law has
a chance of approval this legislative session -- depending on whether he was
speaking in English or Spanish.

``I think this is a great time to do it,'' Cedillo said in English. ``I think
Californians stated very clearly in the last election, they want the governor to
keep his word.''

Jokes about governor

But when addressing reporters from Spanish-language media, Cedillo reorganized
his top reason to poke fun at the governor who wasn't endorsed to drive
motorcycles when he crashed his Harley-Davidson last weekend.

``Well, we have a governor who drives without a license,'' said Cedillo, who
added that he expects the governor to have sympathy for the estimated 2.5
million unlicensed drivers.

Since 1999, Cedillo has made six attempts to let illegal immigrants obtain
licenses. Two bills were vetoed by Gov. Gray Davis. One was signed by him then
repealed by the Legislature, one was denied a key hearing and two were rejected
by Schwarzenegger.

Some analysts questioned Cedillo's persistence, given the bill's unpopular
history, fears of terrorism, the state's pressing needs and a gubernatorial
election year.

Opinion polls show Davis improved his standing with Latino voters when he signed
Cedillo's bill in 2003, but in doing so he lost favor with the much larger share
of non-Latino voters in the recall election.

``I think it puts Democrats in the Legislature, and those perhaps running for
statewide office, in a very uncomfortable position,'' said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe,
a senior scholar at the school of Policy, Planning and Development at the
University of Southern California. ``Republicans will probably feel more
amenable to a veto than a signing.''

Immigrant advocates are grateful for the new bill.

``I think Cedillo is doing his part as a legislator who worries for the safety
of all Californians,'' said José Sandoval, a San Jose resident who leads an
organization, Voluntarios de la Comunidad.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday

Mexican candidates promise to stem northward migration

BYLINE: Will Weissert, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 694 words


Mexico's presidential campaign is focusing on the millions who leave for
better-paying jobs in the United States, with candidates promising to create
better opportunities at home while railing against American immigration
policies.

Illegal migration should again seize the spotlight today, when the three major
presidential hopefuls begin official campaigning after a Christmas break
mandated by the country's electoral body.

Although they disagree on almost everything else, the top candidates for the
July 2 election have all pledged to bolster the economy and attract
international investment to make Mexican jobs attractive enough to keep people
from heading north.

President Vicente Fox made the same promises before his 2000 election, but
migration continued unabated.

Fox had said he would expand the economy by 7 percent a year. When economic
doldrums struck worldwide after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United
States, however, the president was forced to downgrade his domestic growth
forecasts.

The current administration also struggled for a migration accord with Washington
that would grant legal status to many of the estimated 6 million undocumented
Mexicans in the United States.

But no agreement is likely before Fox leaves office Dec. 1. He is limited by the
constitution to a single six-year term.

Mexican politicians have been promising for decades to reduce migration to the
United States, but simply creating new jobs isn't enough, political analyst José
Antonio Crespo said.

Many illegal migrants ``are now more educated and have opportunities in Mexico
but prefer jobs in the United States,'' he said. ``Even with illegal jobs, the
pay is higher.''

The migration issue will be most visible today when presidential candidate
Roberto Madrazo holds a rally in Izucar de Matamoros, referred to by some as a
ghost town because much of its population has left for the United States.

Madrazo, whose Institutional Revolutionary Party controlled Mexico's presidency
from its founding in 1929 until losing to Fox, says he is serious about keeping
would-be migrants from leaving Mexico in a way the current administration -- and
seven decades of governments controlled by his party -- were not.

For months, the race's front-runner has been Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who
resigned as Mexico City's mayor to run for president with the leftist Democratic
Revolutionary Party.

His lead has diminished in recent months, however.

A poll published Wednesday by the Mexico City daily Milenio had the former mayor
ahead with 37 percent compared to 31 percent for Felipe Calderón of Fox's
National Action Party. Madrazo was one point behind Calderón. The newspaper
interviewed 1,000 adults from across Mexico between Jan. 12 and 16. The margin
of error was plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.

López Obrador is opening his campaign in Metlatonoc, a southern town with the
lowest standard of living in Mexico as measured by a 2004 U.N. report on Human
Development.

López Obrador says it pains him to see Mexicans risk their lives sneaking across
the U.S. border. He says economic reform is not about ideology but necessity.

Mexicans have condemned a bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives that
would build 700 miles of additional border fences in California, Arizona, New
Mexico and Texas. The proposal also would make illegal entry a felony and enlist
military and local police to help stop undocumented migrants.

``It has intensified the issue, and anti-American sentiment is growing,'' Crespo
said. ``A wall is very symbolic and sends a message.''

Calderón has said that ``instead of labor going to where the capital is, we will
make it so investment comes here to where our people are.''

Those are welcome words to Samuel Chávez, a Mexico City engineer who has two
uncles and four cousins living illegally in California.

``Fox said the right things, but we need a candidate who can bring home a
migration agreement,'' he said. ``Mexico needs results, not good intentions.''

Crespo and other analysts say Mexican limits on foreign investment in the oil
industry and other key sectors have hindered a cash infusion from abroad that
might spur true economic reform.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday

Five people plead guilty to hiring illegal immigrants for brothels

BYLINE: Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

LENGTH: 560 words


Three women and two men have pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in San Jose
to charges that they hired illegal immigrants to work in a ring of 10
residential brothels in the South Bay, the United States Attorney's Office
announced today.

The five were accused of operating the brothels, disguised as massage parlors,
in Santa Clara, San Jose and San Mateo and of hiring and exploiting Asian women
who entered the country illegally. They were arrested in October in an effort
authorities called Operation Bad Neighbor and were indicted by a federal grand
jury in November.

Four of the defendants pleaded guilty today. They are:

Xiao Feng Shen, 35, of San Jose, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to harbor
illegal immigrants and money laundering conspiracy. He was known as ``James''
and had overstayed a student visa.

Jia Jing Chu, 34, of San Jose, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to harbor
illegal immigrants. He was known as ``Peter'' and had received a stay of
deportation.

Ai-Ching Chang, 45, of Sunnyvale, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to harbor
illegal immigrants and money laundering conspiracy. She was known as ``Tina''
and is a permanent U.S. resident.

Yan Song, 42, of San Jose, who pleaded guilty to income tax evasion and money
laundering conspiracy. She was known as ``Katie'' and ``Cathy'' and is a
permanent U.S. resident.

A fifth defendant, Ming Sun, 32, of San Jose, pleaded guilty Feb. 1 to
conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants and money laundering conspiracy. She
also had overstayed a student visa.

Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office, said he could not
disclose why Sun had pleaded separately from the others.

The investigation was launched in the fall of 2004 by the San Mateo Police
Department when Shen allegedly attempted to bribe a police officer to dismiss
pimping and pandering charges against Song, according to the U.S. Attorney's
Office. The investigation ultimately involved the San Jose Police Department,
the Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials and
the Department of Justice.

As part of the plea agreement, Shen, Sun, Chu and Chang admitted to employing
women, some of whom they knew were in the country illegally, as prostitutes in
2004 and 2005. According to the plea agreements, they rotated the women through
the different brothels, provided the women with supplies and transportation, and
kept a portion of the women's proceeds as income. The number of illegal
immigrants they harbored likely ranged between 24 and 99 women, the U.S.
Attorney's Office reported.

Shen, Sun, Chang and Song admitted in the plea deal that they collected cash
from the brothels and used the money to pay their operating expenses, officials
said.

Many of the women found in the brothels have been returned to their home
countries, and proceedings are ongoing for at least a dozen others, the
attorney's office reported.

Chu, Chang and Shen are scheduled to be sentenced on May 3. Officials did not
announce the sentencing date for Song or Sun.

The maximum sentence for conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants is 10 years in
prison and a $250,000 fine. Money laundering conspiracy can carry a sentence of
20 years in prison and a $500,000 fine, and tax evasion can result in five years
in prison and a $100,000 fine.

Contact Kimra McPherson at kmcpherson@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5928.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 16, 2006 Thursday

Prostitution case yields guilty pleas;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WORKED AT 10 SITES

BYLINE: Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 452 words


Three women and two men have pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in San Jose
to charges that they hired illegal immigrants to work in a ring of 10
residential brothels in the South Bay, the U.S. Attorney's Office announced
Wednesday.

The five were accused of operating the brothels, disguised as massage parlors,
in Santa Clara, San Jose and San Mateo, and of hiring and exploiting Asian women
who entered the country illegally. They were arrested in October in an effort
authorities called Operation Bad Neighbor and were indicted by a federal grand
jury in November.

Four of the defendants pleaded guilty Wednesday:

Xiao Feng Shen, 35, of San Jose, to conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants and
money-laundering conspiracy. He was known as ``James'' and had overstayed a
student visa.

Jia Jing Chu, 34, of San Jose, to conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants. He
was known as ``Peter'' and had received a stay of deportation.

Ai-Ching Chang, 45, of Sunnyvale, to conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants and
money-laundering conspiracy. She was known as ``Tina'' and is a permanent U.S.
resident.

Yan Song, 42, of San Jose, to income-tax evasion and money-laundering
conspiracy. She was known as ``Katie'' and ``Cathy'' and is a permanent U.S.
resident.

A fifth defendant, Ming Sun, 32, of San Jose, pleaded guilty Feb. 1 to
conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants and money-laundering conspiracy. She
also had overstayed a student visa. All five defendants are Chinese nationals.

The investigation was launched in the fall of 2004 by the San Mateo Police
Department when Shen allegedly attempted to bribe a police officer to dismiss
pimping and pandering charges against Song, according to federal prosecutors.
The investigation ultimately involved the San Jose Police Department, the
Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department
of Justice.

As part of the plea agreement, Shen, Sun, Chu and Chang admitted to employing
women, some of whom they knew were in the country illegally, as prostitutes in
2004 and 2005. They rotated the women -- who probably numbered from 24 to 99 --
through the different brothels, provided them with supplies and transportation,
and kept a portion of the women's proceeds as income, the U.S. Attorney's Office
reported.

Many of the women found in the brothels have been returned to their home
countries.

The maximum sentence for conspiracy to harbor illegal immigrants is 10 years in
prison and a $250,000 fine. Money-laundering conspiracy can carry a sentence of
20 years in prison and a $500,000 fine, and tax evasion can result in five years
in prison and a $100,000 fine.

Contact Kimra McPherson at kmcpherson@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5928.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday

Congress abuzz with ideas over illegal immigration;
THOUGH BUSH WANTS ACTION, CONSENSUS MAY BE IMPOSSIBLE IN AN ELECTION YEAR

BYLINE: Alfonso Chardy, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1128 words


The stage is set for one of the most contentious congressional debates in a
decade: whether to legalize up to 11 million illegal immigrants or compel them
to leave the country.

Heading into a congressional election year, though, politics may trump policy,
with nothing getting done.

President Bush, in his State of the Union address, repeated his proposal that
Congress should pass a temporary-worker program for illegal immigrants --
allowing them to stay in the country and work legally for a period of time to be
determined. His plan avoids use of the term ``amnesty,'' a code word for green
cards that would eventually make them eligible for citizenship.

Many in Congress, however, oppose Bush's proposal -- especially many
conservative Republicans who view even a temporary-worker program as amnesty and
are lining up against the president. Moderate Republicans and many Democrats
want a bill that would enable illegal immigrants to seek green cards.

The debate, expected to begin this month and last for months, marks the most
sweeping effort to amend immigration law since 1996, when Congress made it
mandatory to deport foreign nationals convicted of aggravated felonies. If
reform leads to some form of status for illegal immigrants, it would be the most
extensive revamp in 20 years -- since a 1986 amnesty under President Reagan made
about 2.7 million illegal migrants eligible for green cards.

Whether opposing sides will compromise, especially in a midterm election year,
is hard to predict. Interviews with several key senators, representatives, their
aides, Bush administration officials and immigration experts reveal several
possible scenarios -- including one in which reform fails, leaving the migrants
in hiding.

In another, the Senate approves a temporary-worker bill that eventually makes
some illegal immigrants eligible for green cards under strict conditions that
would require sponsorship by a business and some knowledge of English and U.S.
history.

Another scenario calls for only a temporary-worker program, without green cards
-- along with tougher border enforcement and a requirement that migrants leave
the country first to claim their work permits.

Those watching from the sidelines -- experts on immigration in their own right
-- say it's likely nothing will happen, that the status quo will prevail despite
a flurry of lobbying from both sides.

``At the first hint of a stalemate in the Senate and the House, Congress may try
to pass the elections first and delay this to 2007,'' said John Keeley, director
of communications for the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that
favors immigration controls.

One leading pro-immigration advocate agreed. She said the charged political
atmosphere may preclude consensus on such a polarizing issue.

``It could be that nothing happens,'' said Angela Kelly, deputy director for the
National Immigration Forum. ``It all depends on whether it happens close to the
elections or not.''

Ira Kurzban, a Miami lawyer who is considered a national authority on
immigration law, said he believes that legislation will pass -- but it may
feature only toughened laws that could reduce the rights of immigrants.

``It's too early to tell what will happen in the end,'' Kurzban said. ``But it
seems like the people pushing enforcement have the upper hand at this point.''

Kurzban was referring to people like Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the
lawmaker with the most influence on the immigration debate -- at least for now,
because his bill is the first to pass either house of Congress.

On Dec. 16, the House passed Sensenbrenner's bill 239-182 to establish criminal
penalties for illegal migrants, compel verification of whether foreign employees
are legally in the country, build fences along portions of the Mexican border
and toughen laws under which convicted foreigners can be deported.

Sensenbrenner's bill is devoid of a temporary-worker program, but Sensenbrenner
is not opposed to such a proposal -- as long as illegal migrants leave the
country to get permits.

``I'm not philosophically opposed to a guest-worker program,'' Sensenbrenner
said.

Veteran congressional aides believe that the Senate eventually will pass a bill
featuring legalization, though it could stop at only temporary work permits
without a link to green cards.

If the bill that prevails features only a temporary-worker program, then
Republican Sens. John Cornyn of Texas and Jon Kyl of Arizona may emerge as the
Senate's immigration-bill managers.

But if a bill containing a bridge to green cards passes, then Sens. John McCain,
R-Ariz.; Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.; and Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., would be the likely
Senate leaders in the debate because their bills offer illegal immigrants the
ability to apply for permanent residence.

Congressional aides said Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., is working
on an immigration bill that would tighten enforcement. Also working on his own
bill is Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Several influential senators have expressed support for Specter's work in
progress, including Republican Sen. Mel Martinez of Florida and Democratic Sen.
Barack Obama of Illinois, who have jointly issued a set of immigration-reform
principles they support.

Both would give illegal immigrants status -- Martinez with certain strict
conditions and Obama more liberally.

``To fix the illegal-immigration problem we have to recognize that there has to
be a way to account for the 11 million-plus people that are already here,
unaccounted for, working for the most part,'' Martinez said.

He rejected the notion of forcing illegal immigrants to leave the country to
seek permits abroad. ``I believe that is not workable or feasible,'' he said.
But Martinez echoed President Bush's rejection of a guest-worker program that
leads to amnesty.

``They have to pay a penalty. They have to go back to the line for citizenship.
They have to have . . . hoops that they'd have to go through,'' he said.

In a joint letter to Specter Dec. 15, Martinez and Obama proposed offering
temporary work permits after payment of a fine and without excluding access to
green cards.

Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., who has not endorsed any pending comprehensive Senate
immigration bill except one that would allow the children of illegal immigrants
to seek residency, said it's impossible to predict what kind of
immigration-reform bill may prevail.

Nelson said he leans toward legislation that permits all or some of the illegal
immigrants ``who have had certain years of residence and can show gainful
employment to apply for legal status.''

Sensenbrenner said that for comprehensive immigration reform to prevail, all
sides will have to concede something. ``Whether that's going to happen or not, I
don't know.''

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday

Desperation drives mothers, then kids, across border

BYLINE: Charles Ealy, Dallas Morning News

SECTION: AE; Pg. BOK

LENGTH: 644 words


Some Americans who strongly oppose the rising tide of illegal immigration base
their stance on a simple fact: It's a crime.

They have a point.

But some people also contend that you won't be able to stop the crime until you
understand its origins. It's a subject that reaches beyond issues of guest
workers or national economies -- this is a mass migration of women and children.

``Enrique's Journey'' by Sonia Nazario, a compelling new book derived from her
Pulitzer Prize-winning Los Angeles Times series, shows just how complicated such
understanding can be. And how unlikely it is we will be able to seriously dent
illegal immigration in the near future.

``Enrique's Journey'' traces the harrowing odyssey of a Honduran who was left
behind by his mother at the age of 5 and who, several years later, sets off on a
treacherous trip to reunite with her in North Carolina.

Like many other children, some as young as 7, he braves bandits, gangs and
rapists as he crouches atop trains and tries to make it through Central America
and Mexico in his quest to reach the U.S. border.

Retracing Enrique's route, Nazario makes clear that his story isn't all that
unusual. About 700,000 immigrants enter the United States illegally each year.
But in the past few decades, the demographics have started to change. With the
rise of divorce and disintegration of the family in Latin America, many more
single mothers are coming here to earn a living. Initially, they intend to
return to their homeland in a couple of years with a financial stake. In the
meantime, they send money home to help relatives take care of the kids.

But in many cases the mothers never make it back home. And the children, lonely
and increasingly desperate, set off with little money and even fewer chances of
actually getting here.

Although Nazario didn't accompany Enrique on his journey, she tells the story
from his perspective, having interviewed him and hundreds of others, as well as
having taken the same trip herself, several times.

Along the way, she finds villains and heroes. She sees the horrors of migrants
falling off of trains and having their arms or legs cut off on the rails. She
talks with Mexicans who deeply resent -- and actively oppose -- the Central
American tide. She interviews police chiefs who acknowledge that some officers
beat and steal from children. And she finds Catholic priests who help kids such
as Enrique when no one else will.

But it gets even more complicated once Enrique and other migrants reach Nuevo
Laredo and try to enter Texas. It's almost impossible to cross the river and
avoid border agents without paying substantial amounts of money to smugglers.
The migrants are an illegal commodity, like drugs, so it's no surprise that this
trade is run mostly by gangs.

Murder is common. Bloated bodies routinely turn up in the river or the desert as
gangs battle for control of the smuggling. Even those who make it here have no
guarantees. Children often find their mothers, only to face years of anger at
having been abandoned in the first place. And mothers, who have worked long
hours to send back money, resent the children's ingratitude.

Nazario doesn't pull any punches in ``Enrique's Journey,'' which is sure to
startle any complacent reader. She also knows that stories such as Enrique's
will continue for many years to come.

``One Honduran teenager I met in southern Mexico had been deported to Guatemala
twenty-seven times,'' she writes. ``He said he wouldn't give up until he reached
his mother in the United States. I began to believe that no number of border
guards will deter children like Enrique, who are willing to endure so much to
reach the United States. It is a powerful stream, one that can only be addressed
at its source.''

ENRIQUE'S JOURNEY:

The Story of a Boy's Dangerous Odyssey

to Reunite With his Mother

By Sonia Nazario

Random House, 320 pp., $26.95

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday

Hotline to help day laborers turn in contractors who cheat;
SANTA CRUZ POLICE SAY ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DESERVE PROTECTION

BYLINE: Ken McLaughlin, Mercury News

LENGTH: 906 words


The city of Santa Cruz, which often takes controversial approaches to social
issues, has now established what is believed to be the nation's first hotline
for day laborers -- most of whom are undocumented -- to report unscrupulous
employers.

The creation of the hotline, announced Monday, swiftly drew complaints from
activists who said government should not offer such protections to illegal
immigrants. ``The number of illegal immigrants is exploding, and this will only
encourage more to come,'' said Yeh Ling-Ling, executive director of the
Oakland-based Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America.

But police officials, citing reports that employers regularly abuse day
laborers, said everyone deserves the protection of the law.

``When contractors pay less than agreed-upon wages, or do not pay at all, they
violate labor laws and subject honest contractors to unfair competition,'' said
Santa Cruz Police Chief Howard Skerry, whose department joined forces with a
Latino community service agency to set up the hotline at (831) 420-5997.

The 24-hour automated hotline will allow workers to record their complaint, with
the option of leaving their name, phone number or contact information. Skerry
said police immediately will turn over the names of contractors, vehicle plate
numbers, telephone numbers and other information to the Santa Cruz County
District Attorney's office for further investigation and possible civil and
criminal prosecution.

Even when prosecutions of unscrupulous contractors are not possible because
victims choose to remain anonymous, authorities will be able to identify those
employers and warn them that police are watching, police officials said Monday.

Several day laborers waiting for work in front of Santa Cruz's San Lorenzo
Lumber on Monday afternoon said they liked the idea of an anonymous hotline to
report employers who try to cheat them. They all agreed that the main problem
lies with contractors, and not individual homeowners who hire them for
landscaping, painting and cleaning.

``The homeowners don't cheat you,'' said Juan Gaona, 33, of Santa Cruz. ``They
feed us and treat us well. It's the greedy contractors that are the problem. A
lot of workers don't get paid.''

On Monday, workers from Santa Cruz's Familia Center, which worked with the
police department to set up the hotline, began visiting day laborer sites to
publicize the new program.

The hotline was born after a recent conversation between Yolanda Henry,
executive director of the Familia Center and city Councilman Ryan Coonerty.

The two were discussing a proposed Santa Cruz ballot initiative that would raise
the minimum wage in Surf City to $9.25 -- $2.50 higher than the state minimum.
Henry pointed out that a larger problem for many members of the Latino community
was ``getting paid at all'' for work, and they agreed a hotline would be a good
solution.

They also agreed that illegal immigrants would be less reluctant to call if they
knew that the program was affiliated with the well-known, 22-year-old Familia
Center, and not just the police department. The hotline will be checked
regularly by police.

Coonerty took the proposal to the police, who researched it and found that no
other police agency in the country had such a hotline. Among the big cities
contacted were San Jose, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, El Paso, Tex.,
and Phoenix, Ariz., according to detective Arnold Vasquez and administrative
analyst Zach Friend.

In late January, researchers from UCLA, the University of Illinois and New
School University in New York released the results of an 18-month groundbreaking
study that found that day laborers regularly encounter abuse, dangerous
workplaces and theft of wages.

Researchers interviewed 2,660 workers at 264 hiring sites in 20 states and
Washington, D.C., including 14 worker sites in San Jose, one in Mountain View
and several in San Francisco, Oakland and Berkeley. Some sites were informal
gathering spots on busy streets or in front of home-improvement centers; others
were organized day-worker centers.

The study found that three-quarters of the workers are undocumented -- and that
87 percent are from Mexico and Central America. Almost half of all day laborers
experienced at least one instance of ``wage theft'' in the two months before
being surveyed. Forty-four percent said they were denied food and water or
breaks while on the job.

Gabriel Martinez, 45, of Watsonville, said he depends on the income from the
casual labor market to supplement seasonal work in the strawberry fields. But
he's always wary of potential employers -- particularly after he got cheated out
of a day's pay by someone who hired him to deliver advertising circulars.

After that experience, he said, he started copying down the license plates of
employers. He said he'd have no reluctance contacting the police hotline, even
though he is an undocumented immigrant.

Sixteen percent of the day laborers in the national study had reported being
``insulted'' by police as they tried to seek work. Nine percent said they had
been arrested.

But the workers interviewed Monday said that besides being chased off private
property at the request of San Lorenzo Lumber's owners, they had no problems
with the way they were treated by Santa Cruz police.

``I'll report the people who don't pay,'' Martinez said in Spanish. ``I have no
problem with that.''

Contact Ken McLaughlin at kmclaughlin@mercurynews.com or (831) 423-3115.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday

Report fuels border fight;
AS ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION GROWS, BOTH SIDES OF DEBATE SEIZE ON NUMBERS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words


As the fight to tighten America's borders rages from Sacramento to Washington,
D.C., a new estimate on illegal immigration released Tuesday shows the number of
such immigrants has grown to about 12 million -- up about 8 percent in the past
year -- with California once again expected to lead the nation.

And the pace of illegal immigration is increasing, the Pew Hispanic Center
found, suggesting government efforts to crack down are proving ineffective so
far.

``It's been very hard to find any effect from border security,'' said Jeffrey
Passel, author of the report and a senior research associate at the non-partisan
Pew Hispanic Center.

Except one: Mexicans who make it to the United States illegally are staying
longer, perhaps because it is getting harder and more expensive to move back and
forth across the border, Passel said.

``The security has done more to keep people from going back to Mexico than it
has to keep them from coming in,'' Passel said in an interview.

In 2004, the center estimated there were 2.4 million illegal immigrants in
California, a figure expected to increase in the latest study, Passel said. An
exact statewide breakdown for 2005 wasn't yet completed.

The Pew Hispanic Center used Census Bureau data to estimate that the United
States had 11.1 million illegal immigrants in March 2005. The center used
monthly population estimates to project a current illegal population of 11.5
million to 12 million.

``There is a need in this country for workers,'' said Bruno Figueroa, consul
general of Mexico in San Jose, ``and something has to be done to correct the
residence status'' of undocumented workers.

The Pew Hispanic Center report concludes that illegal immigrants continue to
play a crucial role in the American economy: Undocumented workers fill one out
of every four agricultural jobs, 17 percent of all office and house-cleaning
positions, 14 percent of construction jobs and 12 percent of those who work in
food preparation, the group estimated.

The report estimates that 850,000 illegal immigrants have arrived in the United
States each year since 2000.

Both supporters of tight immigration controls and advocates for immigrants found
in the study support for their own approach to the issue.

``It's so out of control, we need a full court press on enforcement,'' said
Brenda Walker, founder of the Bay Area Coalition for Immigration Reform, a
Berkeley-based group that is pushing for strict immigration controls. Walker
said the United States must have workplace enforcement and enforcement at the
borders to turn the tide of illegal immigration.

``The study is nothing new,'' said Resha Shamasunder, director of the state
group, California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative. ``What it does highlight is
the need to find real answers to the issue of immigration.''

Shamasunder said legislation that's been proposed in Congress ``are punitive,
don't have a path to legal immigration and criminalize hardworking people.''

President Bush has called for a program that would grant temporary worker status
to illegal immigrants already here. The House rejected the program and instead
passed a border security bill last year that pleased those calling for a
crackdown on illegal immigration.

The Senate is trying to address both border security and the temporary worker
program, but consensus has been elusive. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has said he hopes his committee will produce a bill by the
end of March.

Business leaders and advocates fighting for immigrants' rights argue that
America's economy would collapse if all the undocumented workers were deported.

Illegal immigrants make up about 5 percent of the U.S. workforce, the Pew report
said. About 7.2 million illegal immigrants are employed, the report said.

``Undocumented immigrants do pay taxes, and they do contribute to the economic,
social and cultural developments of their communities,'' said Peta Ikambana of
the American Friends Service Committee, a social justice group that advocates
for immigrants' rights. The group was organizing a rally near the Capitol on
Tuesday to protest the House bill.

``Just building walls will not stop immigration,'' Ikambana said. ``Those that
are here will just go underground.''

The Associated Press and Mercury News Staff Writers Jessie Mangaliman and Truong
Phuoc Khánh contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration numbers add fuel to national debate

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 724 words


As the fight to tighten America's borders rages from Sacramento to Washington,
D.C., a new estimate on illegal immigration released Tuesday shows the number of
aliens has grown to about 12 million -- up about 8 percent in the past year --
with California once again expected to lead the nation.

And the pace of illegal immigration is increasing, the Pew Hispanic Center
found, suggesting government efforts to crack down are proving ineffective so
far.

``It's been very hard to find any effect from border security,'' said Jeffrey
Passel, author of the report and a senior research associate at the non-partisan
Pew Hispanic Center.

Except one: Mexicans who make it to the United States illegally are staying
longer, perhaps because it is getting harder and more expensive to move back and
forth across the border, Passel said.

``The security has done more to keep people from going back to Mexico than it
has to keep them from coming in,'' Passel said in an interview.

In 2004, the center estimated there were 2.4 million illegal immigrants in
California, a figure expected to increase in the latest study, Passel said. An
exact statewide breakdown for 2005 wasn't yet completed.

The Pew Hispanic Center used Census Bureau data to estimate that the United
States had 11.1 million illegal immigrants in March 2005. The center used
monthly population estimates to project a current illegal population of 11.5
million to 12 million.

``There is a need in this country for workers,'' said Bruno Figueroa, consul
general of Mexico in San Jose, ``and something has to be done to correct the
residence status'' of undocumented workers.

The Pew Hispanic Center report concludes that illegal immigrants continue to
play a crucial role in the American economy: Undocumented workers fill one out
of every four agricultural jobs, 17 percent of all office and house-cleaning
positions, 14 percent of construction jobs, and 12 percent of those who work in
food preparation, the group estimated.

The report estimates that 850,000 illegal immigrants have arrived in the United
States each year since 2000.

Both supporters of tight immigration controls and advocates for immigrants found
in the study support for their own approach to the issue.

``It's so out of control, we need a full court press on enforcement,'' said
Brenda Walker, founder of the Bay Area Coalition for Immigration Reform, a
Berkeley-based group that is pushing for strict immigration controls. Walker
said the United States must have workplace enforcement and enforcement at the
borders to turn the tide of illegal immigration.

``The study is nothing new,'' said Resha Shamasunder, director of the state
group, California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative. ``What it does highlight is
the need to find real answers to the issue of immigration.''

Shamasunder said legislation that's been proposed in Congress ``are punitive,
don't have a path to legal immigration and criminalize hardworking people.''

President Bush has called for a program that would grant temporary worker status
to illegal immigrants already here. The House rejected the program and instead
passed a border security bill last year that pleased those calling for a
crackdown on illegal immigration.

The Senate is trying to address both border security and the temporary worker
program, but consensus has been elusive. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Arlen Specter, R-Pa., has said he hopes his committee will produce a bill by the
end of March.

Business leaders and advocates fighting for immigrants' rights argue that
America's economy would collapse if all the undocumented workers were deported.

Illegal immigrants make up about 5 percent of the U.S. workforce, the Pew report
said. About 7.2 million illegal immigrants are employed, the report said.

``Undocumented immigrants do pay taxes, and they do contribute to the economic,
social and cultural developments of their communities,'' said Peta Ikambana of
the American Friends Service Committee, a social justice group that advocates
for immigrants' rights. The group was organizing a rally near the Capitol on
Tuesday to protest the House bill.

``Just building walls will not stop immigration,'' Ikambana said. ``Those that
are here will just go underground.''

The Associated Press and Mercury News Staff Writers Jessie Mangaliman and Truong
Phuoc Khánh contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 9, 2006 Thursday

Border counties raise red flag;
OFFICIALS REQUEST CONGRESSIONAL HELP

BYLINE: Jennifer Talhelm, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words


Local officials from the 24 counties along the Southwest border say they want
lawmakers in Congress to recognize they face problems much more complex than
border walls and guest worker programs.

They say they need federal help fighting grinding poverty, disease and crime.
The issues are highlighted in a study they released Wednesday in Washington just
as senators are grappling with proposals for overhauling the nation's
immigration system.

Researchers found that if the region were a 51st state, it would rank first in
federal crimes, second in tuberculosis and near the bottom in education, per
capita income and access to health care.

Until illegal immigration became a hot national debate, Congress treated the
border with ``benign neglect,'' said Patrick Call, chairman of the Cochise
County, Ariz., Board of Supervisors.

``There are many other significant issues that come as a result of being on the
border, and frankly, tremendous opportunities,'' he said.

The 246-page report, by researchers at the University of Texas-El Paso, examines
the social, public health, criminal and environmental challenges facing the
immigration-stressed region, which includes the sprawling urban communities of
San Diego and El Paso, Texas, and the desert and ranch country of Arizona and
New Mexico.

Local officials formed the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition a decade ago to
push Congress for money for law enforcement, health care and other needs related
to illegal immigration, which local governments consider a federal problem.

The report examines in detail problems they've been talking about for years.
Chief among them, members say, are the high rates of disease and lack of access
to health care and insurance.

The study found the region ranks last in access to health care compared with the
rest of the states, and 50th in the number of residents with insurance. Yet the
prevalence of people with tuberculosis is twice that of the United States as a
whole. Residents also have high rates of AIDS, hepatitis and adult diabetes.

Local hospitals are straining to cover the cost of treating uninsured patients,
said San Diego County Supervisor Greg Cox, the border group's president.

``You have seen a lot of our hospitals reach the breaking point,'' Cox said.
``Some of them are on the verge of bankruptcy, and that's a very, very, very
scary scenario.''

The study's author, Dennis Soden, said members of Congress have reason to
listen. ``The Southwest is what the rest of the country is going to look like in
five, 30 years: Hispanic majority, very young population, immigrant
population,'' he said.

Although many of the problems the report highlights involve the large numbers of
migrants passing through their communities, many of the border officials in
Washington this week said they don't support walls or other hard barriers to
immigration proposed by members of Congress.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

Border Patrol agents arrested;
TWO ARE SUSPECTED OF RECEIVING BRIBES IN SMUGGLING SCHEME

BYLINE: Elliot Spagat, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 469 words


Two U.S. Border Patrol agents were arrested Thursday on charges of releasing
illegal immigrants from federal custody in exchange for $300,000 in cash bribes.

Mario Alvarez, 44, and Samuel McClaren, 43, released migrants to a smuggling
ring that operates in El Centro, about 120 miles east of San Diego, according to
a federal complaint filed in January and unsealed Thursday. The smugglers then
allegedly took the migrants to Los Angeles.

The agents were assigned to a joint effort between the Border Patrol and
Mexico's Attorney General's Office under which smugglers arrested in the United
States are deported to Mexico for prosecution, the complaint said. Alvarez
worked on the effort from November 2002 to the end of last year; McClaren worked
on it from July 2003 through last year.

Some of the illegal immigrants who were released were smugglers themselves, the
complaint said.

Released from custody

The complaint said the Border Patrol agents brought two smugglers across the
border into the United States in a government vehicle in September 2004 and
released one of them from federal custody three months later in exchange for
$10,000.

In October 2005, Alvarez signed a warrant that falsely stated a migrant was
deported to Mexico, according to the complaint. The two agents allegedly drove
the migrant from an immigration jail in El Centro to a nearby Wal-Mart parking
lot for $6,000.

Both men, of Imperial, were charged with conspiracy, bribery, making false
statements, migrant smuggling and filing false tax returns. The complaint said
McClaren deposited $85,900 in personal bank accounts, while Alvarez deposited
$82,000.

No one responded to phone messages left for the two agents at Border Patrol
sector headquarters in El Centro, where they were assigned. Neither agent's home
telephone was listed in Imperial. The complaint didn't name a defense attorney.

Pilot program

Paul Starita, an assistant U.S. attorney in San Diego, said the investigation
was open and declined to elaborate.

The agents worked on a pilot program that was expanded last year to other parts
of the U.S.-Mexico border in an effort to prosecute more smugglers. Suspects who
fail to meet prosecution guidelines in the United States are deported to Mexico
for prosecution there.

According to the Border Patrol's 2004 annual report, the pilot program resulted
in successful prosecutions in Mexico, where smugglers faced up to six years
prison.

``The agents arrested today, who are supposed to represent the very best,
epitomize the very worst,'' said Daniel Dzwilewski, special agent in charge of
the FBI in San Diego.

Carl McClafferty, the chief Border Patrol agent in El Centro, said the
allegations are ``not indicative of the Department of Homeland Security or the
hardworking, professional men and women of the United States Border Patrol.''

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday

Congress divided over immigration

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 525 words


Two years after President Bush called for an overhaul of the nation's broken
immigration system, Congress is inching toward a legislative response amid deep
divisions over how to deal with more than 11 million illegal immigrants.

The debate on Capitol Hill is amplified by election-year politics, with
immigration emerging as a passionate issue in scores of congressional races,
particularly in states along the Southwest border. Lawmakers there say the issue
is often topic No. 1 at town hall meetings.

The Senate Judiciary Committee is grappling with an immigration bill that
differs sharply from a House-passed measure, which calls for tougher enforcement
and a 700-mile fence along the Southwest border. House and Senate negotiators
would have to craft a delicate compromise for a law to be passed this year, and
no one's betting on the outcome.

Estimates of the number of illegal immigrants vary widely, but the most commonly
accepted figure is more than 11 million. The Pew Hispanic Center, a Washington
research group, estimated that 11.5 million to 12 million unauthorized residents
were in the country as of March, an increase of more than 500,000 over a year
ago.

More than half come from Mexico, but law enforcement officials are increasingly
troubled by the rising number of illegal immigrants from other nations,
including countries accused of sponsoring terrorism. More than 156,000 so-called
OTMs -- Other Than Mexico -- were arrested last year, a 119 percent increase
over 2004.

Traditionally, illegal immigration has been fueled by economics, with most
undocumented workers coming for better jobs and living conditions. Many U.S.
employers consider them an integral part of the workforce, taking low-end jobs
that U.S. citizens won't.

At the same time, illegal immigrants stir deep resentment among U.S. citizens,
particularly in border states, where critics say they squeeze American workers
out of jobs and absorb billions of dollars in social services, including public
education for their children and medical treatment at tax-funded hospitals.

In the post-Sept. 11 era, the debate over illegal immigration has widened to
include a fierce outcry over national security, stirring fears that the porous
borders are becoming a gateway for potential terrorists and other unwelcome
elements, including gang members, drug couriers and smugglers of human
contraband.

U.S. Border Patrol agents last year arrested 1.17 million illegal immigrants.
Authorities believe that perhaps more than that entered undetected.

All sides agree that the system is broken, but few agree on how to fix it. Bush
first called for an immigration overhaul in January 2004, proposing a
guest-worker program that would include those now here illegally. Hoping to
appeal to conservatives, he has since broadened the initiative to include two
other components: aggressive enforcement at the workplace and tighter border
security.

Bush has pursued the issue harder than any of his recent White House
predecessors, pushing Congress toward the first immigration overhaul in three
decades. But his lame-duck status and plunge in polls have raised concerns among
reform advocates.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 20, 2006 Monday

Intelligence comes in two flavors

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 806 words


The new national security policy says the United States favors pre-emptive
action against terrorist groups and hostile states that possess or are
developing weapons of mass destruction. My question is: How do we know who these
people are? Through intelligence? Would that be the intelligence that provides
information or the intelligence which ignores the information provided?

Linda DahlbergSunnyvale

Employers exploit illegal migrants

Businesses hire illegal immigrants because they can be exploited, and because
taxpayers are forced to pay their bureaucrat-mandated costs. The bottom line is
that both U.S. citizens and the illegals they hire are being exploited for
profit. We must demand enforcement of existing law, at all levels of government.
Prosecute the American criminal employers and fine them to recover costs borne
by the taxpayers. As demand for exploitable labor dries up, the supply will
adjust accordingly. Only then can we create a guest-worker program that honors
the contribution of hardworking, legal immigrants.

Bob NystromMountain View

Let consumers guide Internet

Your editorial ``AT&T merger poses Web threat'' (March 7) ignores the reality of
the marketplace. The future of the Internet is in the hands of consumers. They
control its structure because they ``vote with their feet'' or, in this case,
their dollars.

The government should leave the Internet alone and let the market shape it in
the way consumers demand. Trying to legislatively enforce ``Net neutrality''
will subvert free enterprise and deny Internet users access to technological
advances.

It's easy to conjure a scary picture of providers pulling the plug on small
companies who don't pay for Internet access, but imagine what would happen if
someone actually tried that. Rival providers would take two minutes to produce
an ad campaign portraying the offending company as the bad guy and themselves as
the only company offering access to all Internet sites.

Let consumers -- not politicians -- call the shots, and give the Internet a
chance to grow and develop without interference.

David McClure,

president and CEO,

U.S. Internet IndustryAssociationAlexandria, Va.

Housing prices actually dropping

Your recent article would lead readers to believe that local housing prices are
still rising (Page 1A, March 17). The article compares the most recent data to
prices a year ago. Everyone knows that prices are up from last year. But if you
are looking into buying now, you want to know the currenttrends.

There are many Web sites, but they are almost all sponsored by the real estate
industry. It is in their interest for you to think prices are rising. The fact
is that prices are falling over the past few months, as reported by your own
Pete Carey (Page 1D, Jan. 20) and they are continuing to fall.

George SchuttingerMountain View

`Pay as you go' best for highways

It was great reading Wednesday's commentary by the mayors of San Jose, San
Francisco and Los Angeles (Opinion, March 15). In light of the inability of the
Legislature and governor to come to an agreement regarding a June ballot
measure, I would hope that November's ballot measure would have a strong housing
component. I would urge that the measure contain only three items: housing,
levees, education.

While all politicians love funding roads, the truth is the Republicans are
correct -- a ``pay as you go'' plan is what works best. Rather than having the
general fund be the source, Californians will have to stomach raising the gas
tax to pay for the necessary transportation investments. Considering that the
gas tax hasn't been raised in 12 years, maybe our legislators will realize that
it's finally time to do so.

Irvin DawidPalo Alto

Elected officials get nothing done

Once again, our elected officials have proven that the largest obstacle to
getting anything done in this state is our elected officials. If fixing our
decrepit infrastructure is such a vital task for our government, why isn't it
being paid for out of the general fund? Probably because the general fund is
tapped out paying back bonds at embarrassingly high interest rate . . . bonds
issued because the Legislature failed to do its job.

How many more times will our Legislature have to fail us before we do something
about it?

Mary MorseSanta Clara

Show us proof of Iran allegations

A short clip of President Bush was on all the major news channels this week in
which he accuses Iran of supplying components for the improvised explosive
devices that the insurgents in Iraq are using against our troops. This is a very
serious charge, which I assume he can back up with evidence.

The Bush administration started the Iraq war based upon faulty intelligence: Not
again! If Bush is going to make serious claims against Iran, he better show us
the proof. And no excuses about protecting intelligence sources.

Kurt LaetzSanta Cruz

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 26, 2006 Sunday

Beware of simplistic immigration solutions;
ROLE OF AMERICA'S NEWCOMERS IS TOO IMPORTANT TO BE LEFT TO HASTY ANSWERS

BYLINE: Marcelo M. Suárez-Orozco

SECTION: PE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1710 words


As Congress returns from break this week, the country will be entering yet
another season in that quintessentially American sport: debating immigration.

The competing bills in the Senate and the House of Representatives embody
sharply different views and reflect the raging battle among Americans about the
lengths to which we should go to keep out illegal immigrants. The fight comes
when the estimated number of illegal immigrants has hit about 12 million -- the
largest number in history.

Although Senate Majority leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., is threatening to offer
legislation focusing only on more border controls, the leading Senate bill under
consideration is a compromise of what conservatives and others such as Sen.
Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., want. It would further strengthen border controls but
could also put in place a new guest-worker program to bring needed labor to the
United States and could provide a path for the approximately 12 million illegal
immigrants to become legal, a path that could include paying back taxes and
fines.

A competing bill in the House proposes to further tighten border controls but
would also criminalize undocumented immigrants and harshly penalize those who
aid them -- a group that presumably would include not only employers, but also
nuns and others who work with the poor. It would also block any pathway for
undocumented immigrants already here to earn legalization.

That bill is a far cry from the ambitious agenda laid out by President Bush when
he first came to office and vowed to work out a deal on immigration with his
amigo and fellow rancher President Vicente Fox of Mexico. How did we go from
that to the palpable immigration crisis of today? And how are we to move
forward, realistically, in fixing an obviously broken migration system?

In some sense, the heated national debate should not come as a surprise. We
always love immigrants as we look backward but feel intense concerns in the here
and now. These days there is anxiety about potential terrorist cells penetrating
our leaky borders. A century ago, there were very similar fears about anarchist
Italians and communist Eastern Europeans bringing their foreign battles to
American soil.

The near-panic over those earlier immigrants was eventually cloaked in the
mantle of the pseudoscience of eugenics. Scientists claimed with great certainty
that the Catholic Irish, Catholic Italians, and Catholic and Jewish Eastern
Europeans were prone to anarchist violence and crime and were constitutionally
incapable of becoming loyal Americans.

The Catholics were suspect because of, among other things, their alleged slavish
devotion to their pope. (It would no doubt shock those early doubters to know
that there are five Catholics on the Supreme Court, including Judge Samuel
Alito, who spoke movingly of his father's immigrant journey during his recent
confirmation hearings.)

What's driving today's fears is globalization. Openness is suddenly being viewed
as a liability after terrorists struck some of the world's most cosmopolitan
cities, including New York, London and Madrid. The globalization of culture,
meanwhile, means foreign languages like Spanish now circulate with a new
persistence where once national languages reigned supreme. And the globalization
of the economy means American workers are losing ground as they see good jobs
outsourced overseas and their real wages decline year after year.

But those panicking over immigration should consider these facts:

The proportion of immigrants in the United States today is lower than it was 100
years ago.

The proportion of immigrants in the United States today is lower than in many
other advanced post-industrial societies, including Australia.

Immigrants to the United States also compare more favorably on a host of
demographic and socioeconomic indicators, including how fast they are learning
English, than previous waves of immigrants to our country. Critics of
immigration may notice lots of Spanish being spoken, but the reality is that
more immigrant children go to school than, let's say, the Italian children who
were sent straight to work at the turn of the century. That means they pick up
the language faster.

And, perhaps most important, every year immigrants, especially the considerable
proportion of highly educated and skilled immigrants, contribute an estimated
$50 billion in free human capital to the United States. That means that our
economy is boosted by the work of people we never had to pay to educate -- a
group that includes Ghanaian physicians and Indian computer programmers (not to
mention Dominican baseball players).

As former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said in 1999: ``I have always
thought that under the conditions such as what we now confront, we should be
carefully focused on the contribution which skilled people from abroad, and
unskilled people from abroad . . . can contribute to this country, as they have
for generation after generation.''

That's not to say there aren't problems created by immigration, especially
illegal immigration of poor workers and their families. The many costs
associated with large-scale immigration include those for schooling the children
of immigrants and health care and costs associated with the criminal justice
system. But countries of immigration cannot have it both ways. They cannot reap
the benefits immigration generates -- including the benefits of low-wage workers
for such vital industries as farming -- without facing the costs it will
require.

What do we need to know about immigration to make sound decisions? First, be
wary of politicians promising to ``fix our broken immigration system'' because
they may end up making things worse. Senators debating immigration should
consider the Simpson-Rodino amnesty bill of 1986. It was supposed to finally do
away with the problem of illegal immigration to the United States. Instead, 20
years later, we surely have more than double the number of illegal immigrants we
had then.

We need to carefully consider how the proposed path to legalizing illegal
immigrants would work. We also need to understand that any legalization is
likely in the short term to stimulate further illegal migration as would-be
migrants try to emigrate and take advantage of a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to gain papers.

Second, there are no magic bullets. The U.S. government in the mid-1990s began
to put in place the most thorough and costly border control initiative in the
history of our country, but last year -- for the first time ever -- we probably
received more illegal immigrants than legal immigrants. Furthermore, the
preponderance of evidence suggests that the tighter control of the border with
Mexico has had the unanticipated consequence of trapping millions of illegal
immigrants who might have returned to their countries after seasonal work. Many
stayed because they are now fearful of being unable to come back if they leave.

Third, we need to think hard about how immigration affects national security,
which means we need to do more than worry about whether terrorists slip across
our borders. We need to ask ourselves how many more illegal immigrants a
democracy can metabolize before creating a caste-like underclass permanently
locked in a shadow world of increasing marginality and vulnerability. How are we
to incorporate into our economy and society, for instance, the estimated almost
2 million children growing up in the United States today who came with their
parents and are illegal immigrants?

The recent bombings in London, the killing in the Netherlands of Theo Van Gogh
(whose film criticized Muslim treatment of women), and the burnings in Paris
last year all involved marginalized and alienated second-generation immigrants.

As long as the United States remains the shining ``City Upon a Hill,'' we will
continue to attract, and benefit from, immigration. Some reasons we cannot
control, including the powerful wage differentials -- in the order of 10-to-1 --
between the United States and Latin America. Others we can, but choose not to.
As long as American business continues to show a predilection for immigrant
workers, including illegal workers -- and so long as the government continues
its anemic efforts to sanction employers hiring them -- we will have illegal
immigration. That is as American as apple pie.

What we need to figure out as a nation is whether the benefits of immigration
outweigh its costs. If we think the costs are too high, we need to decide what
would be more of a deterrent to future illegal migration -- more border patrols,
or the word getting out that few employers will hire illegal workers?

We should also talk about practical ways to ease the burdens on state and local
governments that probably drive some of the anger at immigrants. The federal
government currently keeps most of the tax revenue generated by immigrants,
including illegal immigrants, but local governments are responsible for
delivering the needed services: schooling the children, staffing the hospitals
and clinics, and managing local bureaucracies. Perhaps more of the revenue
should be shifted to our towns and counties.

And last, we and other prosperous nations experiencing large-scale immigration
need to fund much stronger regional development programs so that millions of
would-be immigrants can find meaningful work in their own countries. If our
economy continues to need immigrant workers, an ambitious but orderly
guest-worker program has obvious advantages over the status quo.

But what we need first is a serious and informed national conversation about our
ideals and expectations for the future. We need to ask ourselves: Do we want to
be the City Upon the Hill, or Fortress America? Just as war is famously said to
be too important to leave to the generals, immigration is too important to leave
to the politicians. It is the citizens -- the children, grandchildren, and
great-grandchildren of yesteryear's immigrants -- who need to lead the way.

the founder of the Harvard Immigration Projects, is Courtney Sale Ross
university professor and co-director of immigration studies at New York
University. He is the co-author of ``Children of Immigration.'' He wrote this
article for Perspective.

MARCELO M. SUÁREZ-OROZCO,

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

SENATE PANEL OKS IMMIGRATION BILL;
BAY AREA: DEMONSTRATIONS ECHO MASS RALLIES ACROSS THE NATION

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words


The Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday approved a comprehensive immigration
bill that would create a foreign guest-worker program and put millions of
illegal immigrants on track toward permanent residency and U.S. citizenship.

The legislation that now goes to the full Senate for debate was approved 12-6 by
the Republican-controlled committee and embraces key elements of a bipartisan
bill crafted by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

While offering more hope to illegal immigrants living in the United States than
a get-tough House bill passed in December, the Senate version also calls for
stepped up immigration enforcement -- more than doubling the size of the U.S.
Border Patrol over the next five years.

``Considering all of the hurdles and all of the pitfalls it's a good result,''
said Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the committee chairman, who joined three other
Republicans and eight Democrats in supporting the measure. Other GOP members
supporting the bill were Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Mike DeWine of Ohio
and Sam Brownback of Kansas.

The Senate was scheduled to begin debate on immigration today, but delayed the
issue until later in the week. Nevertheless, Specter pressed committee members
to finish the comprehensive measure by the end of the day Monday to meet a
deadline imposed by Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.

Although Specter expressed confidence that the measure offered bipartisan appeal
that could win a majority of votes in the Senate, it differs sharply from a bill
passed by the House of Representatives, which calls for toughened enforcement,
including the creation of a 700-mile fence along the Southwest border.

The bill the full Senate eventually approves and the House version must be
reconciled before it can be presented to President Bush for his signature.

Fanned by election-year politics, immigration is one of the nation's most
volatile issues, with the public and Congress deeply divided between those
calling for tougher enforcement and pro-immigrant groups who seek to protect the
estimated 12 million immigrants now in the United States illegally.

The Senate committee bill would enable illegal immigrants in the country as of
Jan. 7, 2004, to obtain visas and stay in the country for six years while they
apply for permanent residency by paying fines and back taxes and demonstrating a
proficiency in English and civics. At Specter's insistence, they would have to
``wait in line'' behind the more than 3 million applicants now seeking green
cards through legal channels.

Under the guest-worker program, up to 400,000 foreign workers a year could come
into the country for up to six years to hold low-skilled jobs bypassed by U.S.
workers. They also could apply for permanent residency and citizenship.

The committee also agreed to a pilot program that would allow up to 1.5 million
undocumented immigrants over a five-year period to hold agricultural jobs under
temporary visas. They, too, could apply for green cards to become permanent
residents. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said that program would ensure a
source of legal workers for thousands of agricultural jobs now largely held by
undocumented workers drawing low wages.

Committee members, rejecting a more hard-line approach by the House, voted
against proposed criminal penalties on illegal immigrants. They approved an
amendment by Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., to shield church and charitable groups
from criminal prosecution for providing aid to illegal immigrants.

Continuing a chain of recent massive demonstrations across the United States,
several thousand immigrants and activists gathered at the Capitol to demand
greater legal protections and denounce the House bill, which threatened illegal
immigrants with felony prison sentences.

Dozens of clergy, handcuffed to each other with plastic strips, hummed ``We
Shall Overcome'' in the hallway of the Senate building where the Judiciary
Committee deliberated -- a symbol, they said, of the effect of criminalizing
illegal immigrants and the people who help them.

``We believe this is an issue of justice, that's why we need to raise our
voices,'' said the Rev. Mauricio Chacon of the Mission Presbyterian Church in
San Francisco, who was in Washington. ``The Bible tells us we need to treat the
foreigner like one of us.''

In San Francisco, three hunger-strike protesters dropped off 12,000 postcards
opposing tough new immigration laws to Feinstein's downtown San Francisco
office. The senator's spokesman, Howard Gantman, had no comment on the protest,
but said Feinstein has said she is opposed to House legislation that would turn
illegal immigrants into felons.

Bush, calling immigration one of the most important issues of his presidency, is
urging Congress to enact a three-pronged approach comprising improved border
security, aggressive enforcement at the workplace and a guest-worker program to
give U.S. businesses a steady supply of low-skilled workers.

Bush hasn't fully defined his plan, but administration officials have said his
guest-worker plan would cover both foreigners who want to come to the United
States to work and immigrants in the country illegally, provided they pay
substantial fines and meet other conditions.

Mercury News Staff Writers Jesse Mangaliman and Mary Anne Ostrom contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

Senate panel approves immigration bill;
PROPOSALS HEAD TO FULL SENATE

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

LENGTH: 886 words


The Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday approved a comprehensive immigration
bill that would create a foreign guest-worker program and put millions of
illegal immigrants on track toward permanent residency and U.S. citizenship.

The legislation that now goes to the full Senate for debate was approved 12-6 by
the Republican-controlled committee and embraces key elements of a bipartisan
bill crafted by Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz., and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.

While offering more hope to illegal immigrants living in the United States than
a get-tough House bill passed in December, the Senate version also calls for
stepped up immigration enforcement -- more than doubling the size of the U.S.
Border Patrol over the next five years.

``Considering all of the hurdles and all of the pitfalls it's a good result,''
said Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the committee chairman, who joined three other
Republicans and eight Democrats in supporting the measure. Other GOP members
supporting the bill were Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Mike DeWine of Ohio
and Sam Brownback of Kansas.

The Senate was scheduled to begin debate on immigration Tuesday, but delayed the
issue until later in the week. Nevertheless, Specter pressed committee members
to finish the comprehensive measure by the end of the day Monday to meet a
deadline imposed by Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.

Although Specter expressed confidence that the measure offered bipartisan appeal
that could win a majority of votes in the Senate, it differs sharply from a bill
passed by the House of Representatives, which calls for toughened enforcement,
including the creation of a 700-mile fence along the Southwest border.

The bill the full Senate eventually approves and the House version must be
reconciled before it can be presented to President Bush for his signature.

Fanned by election-year politics, immigration is one of the nation's most
volatile issues, with the public and Congress deeply divided between those
calling for tougher enforcement and pro-immigrant groups who seek to protect the
estimated 12 million immigrants now in the United States illegally.

The Senate committee bill would enable illegal immigrants in the country as of
Jan. 7, 2004, to obtain visas and stay in the country for six years while they
apply for permanent residency by paying fines and back taxes and demonstrating a
proficiency in English and civics. At Specter's insistence, they would have to
``wait in line'' behind the more than 3 million applicants now seeking green
cards through legal channels.

Under the guest-worker program, up to 400,000 foreign workers a year could come
into the country for up to six years to hold low-skilled jobs bypassed by U.S.
workers. They also could apply for permanent residency and citizenship.

The committee also agreed to a pilot program that would allow up to 1.5 million
undocumented immigrants over a five-year period to hold agricultural jobs under
temporary visas. They, too, could apply for green cards to become permanent
residents. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said that program would ensure a
source of legal workers for thousands of agricultural jobs now largely held by
undocumented workers drawing low wages.

Committee members, rejecting a more hard-line approach by the House, voted
against proposed criminal penalties on illegal immigrants. They approved an
amendment by Sen. Richard Durbin, D-Ill., to shield church and charitable groups
from criminal prosecution for providing aid to illegal immigrants.

Continuing a chain of recent massive demonstrations across the United States,
several thousand immigrants and activists gathered at the Capitol to demand
greater legal protections and denounce the House bill, which threatened illegal
immigrants with felony prison sentences.

Dozens of clergy, handcuffed to each other with plastic strips, hummed ``We
Shall Overcome'' in the hallway of the Senate building where the Judiciary
Committee deliberated -- a symbol, they said, of the effect of criminalizing
illegal immigrants and the people who help them.

``We believe this is an issue of justice, that's why we need to raise our
voices,'' said the Rev. Mauricio Chacon of the Mission Presbyterian Church in
San Francisco, who was in Washington. ``The Bible tells us we need to treat the
foreigner like one of us.''

In San Francisco, three hunger-strike protesters dropped off 12,000 postcards
opposing tough new immigration laws to Feinstein's downtown San Francisco
office. The senator's spokesman, Howard Gantman, had no comment on the protest,
but said Feinstein has said she is opposed to House legislation that would turn
illegal immigrants into felons.

Bush, calling immigration one of the most important issues of his presidency, is
urging Congress to enact a three-pronged approach comprising improved border
security, aggressive enforcement at the workplace and a guest-worker program to
give U.S. businesses a steady supply of low-skilled workers.

Bush hasn't fully defined his plan, but administration officials have said his
guest-worker plan would cover both foreigners who want to come to the United
States to work and immigrants in the country illegally, provided they pay
substantial fines and meet other conditions.

Mercury News Staff Writers Jesse Mangaliman and Mary Anne Ostrom contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

25 bills in state aimed at migrants;
REPUBLICANS SEEKING HOST OF RESTRICTIONS

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words


Frustrated by the federal government's inability to stop the flow of illegal
immigration, the state's Republican lawmakers are attempting to put the squeeze
on millions of undocumented workers, students and parents in ways unseen since
the movement that led to Proposition 187 more than a decade ago.

Assembly and Senate Republicans have proposed 25 measures this legislative
session that would restrict illegal immigrants' access to college, block
state-funded benefits and encourage police officers to act as immigration
agents.

Some of the measures will be vetted at committee hearings in the coming weeks,
and it's almost certain that most will be blocked by the Democratic majority.
But supporters of the measures are counting on new momentum coming from the U.S.
Congress, which is debating this week whether to criminalize illegal
immigration, or approve amnesty for as many as 12 million undocumented people.
And, even if their measures fail, Republican incumbents up for election can use
fighting illegal immigration as a popular issue to rally their base in the
November elections.

The last time California lawmakers considered as many anti-illegal-immigration
bills was in the 1993-94 session, when 28 measures were introduced.

While only three became law back then, and none so far this session, the
anti-illegal-immigrant sentiment expressed by legislators in Sacramento seeped
to voters across California, culminating in the November 1994 passage of the
politically divisive Proposition 187, an initiative that sought to deny public
benefits to illegal immigrants but was overturned by the courts.

Problem growing

``Every year that has gone by since Prop. 187 was not enforced means there's a
bigger problem,'' said Mike Spence, president of the influential California
Republican Assembly, a grass-roots group that supports conservative policies.
``I think some legislators are reacting to that.''

Among the bills soon headed for committee hearings: a requirement that
applicants for state-government jobs prove their legal status; a law to bar
employers from claiming tax deductions off wages paid to undocumented employees;
measures to study the costs associated with illegal immigration; and the repeal
of a law that has allowed some undocumented students to pay the same
public-college tuition rates as legal California residents.

Among the bills that already have failed this session were measures that would
have required school districts to count the number of undocumented students;
created a border police force; and forced local law enforcement agencies to
cooperate with federal immigration authorities.

``This has become a very, very important and hot topic, is the only way I can
describe it,'' said Assemblyman Tom Harman, R-Huntington Beach, author of three
bills to discourage illegal immigration. ``You know, this seems to be the single
most important thing that's on the minds of voters in California today.''

Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles, a defender of illegal immigrants,
said he wasn't concerned with the spike in legislation because Democrats,
through majorities in both houses, control key committees and floor votes. He
accused some Republicans of using the issue to gain political support from their
conservative voting base by ``fanning the flames of the immigration debate, and
to make that debate as hostile as possible.''

The bills proposed in Sacramento -- and two anti-illegal-immigrant measures
trying to qualify for the November ballot -- come at a time when hundreds of
thousands of immigrant advocates nationwide, including a half-million in Los
Angeles, rallied this past week to voice concerns about the pending federal
legislation, which is expected to be resolved within two weeks.

Election politics

Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the University of Southern
California, said the flurry of immigration legislation has a lot to do with this
being an election year.

``Both sides are looking at it as an issue that can mobilize their base,'' she
said. ``For the Republicans, that base is the conservative activists. For the
Democrats, it's labor, Latino voters.''

Some Democrats are carrying pro-illegal-immigrant legislation, though the bill
with the highest profile, a measure to allow illegal immigrants to apply for
driver's licenses, could end in defeat; Schwarzenegger vetoed Sen. Gil Cedillo's
identical measure last year.

More than 2.5 million illegal immigrants are believed to be in California,
according to several studies.

Worrying trend

Immigrant advocates are beginning to express concern that, just like 10 years
ago -- when several measures were introduced and rejected, only to be followed
by Proposition 187 -- momentum could swing in favor of the ballot initiatives
being pushed for November.

One measure, proposed by Assemblyman Mark Wyland, a Republican from San Diego
County, would bar the undocumented from public health care, social services and
state universities, and would prevent them from ever receiving driver's
licenses. The other initiative, proposed by Assemblyman Ray Haynes of Riverside
County, would create the California Border Police.

``There's always the potential that some of these measures or initiatives might
go farther this year because things at the national level seem to be going in
that direction; there's always that ripple effect,'' said Jeannette Zanipatin,
statewide policy analyst for the California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative.

Richard Konda, executive director of the non-profit Asian Law Alliance in San
Jose, worries not only about the turning tide, but also about a bill that would
prohibit lawyers from using money derived from state attorney trust accounts to
provide civil legal services to illegal immigrants.

``I think it's really mean-spirited,'' said Konda, a lawyer. ``There's an
upsurge of blaming immigrants, whether they be undocumented or what have you,
for crime, pollution, overcrowding; the list goes on and on and on -- we seem to
be back at that.''

Among the first in a new batch of bills to hit legislative committees is a bill
by Sen. Dennis Hollingsworth, R-Temecula. His bill denies state aid to police
departments whose officers don't fully cooperate with federal immigration
authorities. That bill goes to the Senate Public Safety Committee on April 8.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

California Republicans propose crackdown on illegal immigration

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News

LENGTH: 1048 words


Frustrated by the federal government's inability to stop the flow of illegal
immigration, the state's Republican lawmakers are attempting to put the squeeze
on millions of undocumented workers, students and parents in ways unseen since
the movement that led to Proposition 187 more than a decade ago.

Assembly and Senate Republicans have proposed 25 measures this legislative
session that would restrict illegal immigrants' access to college, block
state-funded benefits and encourage police officers to act as immigration
agents.

Some of the measures will be vetted at committee hearings in the coming weeks
and it's almost certain that most will be blocked by the Democrat majority. But
supporters of the measures are counting on new momentum coming from the U.S.
Congress, which is debating this week whether to criminalize illegal
immigration, or approve amnesty for as many as 12 million undocumented people.
And, even if their measures fail, Republican incumbents up for election can use
fighting illegal immigration as a popular issue to rally their base in the
November elections.

The last time California lawmakers considered as many anti-illegal-immigration
bills was in the 1993-94 session, when 28 measures were introduced.

While only three became law back then, and none so far this session, the
anti-illegal immigrant sentiment expressed by legislators in Sacramento seeped
to voters across California, culminating in the November 1994 passage of the
politically divisive Proposition 187, an initiative that sought to deny public
benefits to illegal immigrants but was overturned by the courts.

``Every year that has gone by since Prop. 187 was not enforced means there's a
bigger problem,'' said Mike Spence, president of the influential California
Republican Assembly, a grass roots group that supports conservative policies.
``I think some legislators are reacting to that.''

Among the bills soon headed for committee hearings: a requirement that state
government job applicants prove their legal status; a law to bar employers from
claiming tax deductions off wages paid to undocumented employees; measures to
study the costs associated with illegal immigration; and the repeal of a law
that has allowed some undocumented students to pay the same public-college
tuition rates as legal California residents.

Among the bills that already have failed this session were measures that would
have required school districts to count the number of undocumented students;
created a border police force; and forced local law enforcement agencies to
cooperate with federal immigration authorities.

``This has become a very, very important and hot topic, is the only way I can
describe it,'' said Assemblyman Tom Harman, R-Huntington Beach,author of three
bills to discourage illegal immigration. ``You know, this seems to be the single
most important thing that's on the minds of voters in California today.''

Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles, a defender of illegal immigrants,
said he wasn't concerned with the spike in legislation because Democrats,
through majorities in both houses, control key committees and floor votes. He
accused some Republicans of using the issue to gain political support from their
conservative voting base by ``fanning the flames of the immigration debate, and
to make that debate as hostile as possible.''

The bills proposed in Sacramento -- and two anti-illegal-immigrant measures
trying to qualify for the November ballot -- come at a time when hundreds of
thousands of immigrant advocates nationwide, including a half-million in Los
Angeles, rallied this past week to voice concerns about the pending federal
legislation, which is expected to be resolved within two weeks.

Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the University of Southern
California, said the flurry of immigration legislation has a lot to do with this
being an election year.

``Both sides are looking at it as an issue that can mobilize their base,'' she
said. ``For the Republicans, that base is the conservative activists. For the
Democrats, it's labor, Latino voters.''

Some Democrats are carrying pro-immigrant legislation, though the bill with the
highest profile, a measure to allow illegal immigrants to apply for driver's
licenses, could end in defeat; Schwarzenegger vetoed Sen. Gil Cedillo's
identical measure last year.

More than 2.5 million illegal immigrants are believed to be in California,
according to several studies.

Immigrant advocates are beginning to express concern that, just like 10 years
ago -- when several measures were introduced and rejected, only to be followed
by Proposition 187 -- momentum could swing in favor of the ballot initiatives
being pushed for November.

One measure, proposed by Assemblyman Mark Wyland, a Republican from San Diego
County, would bar the undocumented from public health care, social services and
state universities, and would prevent them from ever receiving driver's
licenses. The other initiative, proposed by Assemblyman Ray Haynes of Riverside
County, would create the California Border Police.

``There's always the potential that some of these measures or initiatives might
go farther this year because things at the national level seem to be going in
that direction; there's always that ripple effect,'' said Jeannette Zanipatin,
statewide policy analyst for the California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative.

Richard Konda, executive director of the non-profit Asian Law Alliance in San
Jose, worries not only about the turning tide, but about a bill that would
prohibit lawyers from using money derived from state attorney trust accounts to
provide civil legal services to illegal immigrants.

``I think it's really mean-spirited,'' said Konda, a lawyer. ``There's an
upsurge of blaming immigrants, whether they be undocumented, or what have you,
for crime, pollution, overcrowding, the list goes on and on and on -- we seem to
be back at that.''

Among the first in a new batch of bills to hit legislative committees is a bill
by Sen. Dennis Hollingsworth, R-Temecula. His bill denies state aid to police
departments whose officers don't fully cooperate with federal immigration
authorities. That bill goes to the Senate Public Safety Committee on April 8.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday

Workers fleeing unfair trade rules

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 767 words


Attempting to reduce illegal immigration with border patrols and harsh penalties
is like trying to stop a truck with a baseball bat. People should ask who's
driving the truck before clamoring for violent and punitive responses.

Poverty in Mexico has worsened ever since our country pushed through the North
American Free Trade Agreement 13 years ago. Not only has NAFTA hurt U.S.
workers, it's created a desperate economic situation in Mexico that drives
illegal immigration.

Unfortunately, the Bush administration expanded these unfair trade policies to
Central America and now proposes expanding them to Peru. The Sierra Club opposes
expansion of unfair trade rules that destroy people's lives and environment;
anyone worried about illegal immigration should too.

Margaret OkuzumiSunnyvale

Don't give up on enforcement

The proposal by the Senate Judiciary Committee, so highly touted by the Mercury
News (Editorial, March 29), is nothing more than a rerun of the ``solution''
used 20 years ago. It didn't work then, it won't work now. The only solution is
tough control of immigration and control of all who support illegal immigration.

Just look to the problems in France and you will see what is going to happen in
the United States, a decade from now, if we fail to address the problem with a
realistic solution.

Gordon E. BrandtLos Altos

Security spending can't be public

With all the Bush bashing so popular in the mainstream media, one has to wonder
about letter writers like George E. Lawhon (Letter, March 28). Are they really
concerned about the money the war on terror is costing? Lawhon stated ``You
cannot tell me what they did with the $28 billion they got to implement homeland
security,'' and he is absolutely right. They can't tell him, nor should they.
Much of it is classified information and it would be all over the media the next
day. I would be happy just to see a breakdown of how much of the billions of
dollars we spend on our failed educational system actually reaches the student
in the classroom.

John AzevedoSanta Clara

Abstinence plan worked in Uganda

Why should an abstinence-based sex and HIV education program be
``controversial'' (Page 3A, March 27)? Given that Uganda's abstinence-based
program has cut its HIV-infection rate by more than half while condom-based
programs haven't put a dent in it, the only people who could find
abstinence-based education controversial must have an agenda other than reducing
HIV.

Larry BickfordSan Jose

They didn't object to Clinton's wars

Where were the anti-war protesters when Bill Clinton waged war? Where was the
outrage when the bodies of U.S. Army Rangers were dragged through the streets of
Mogadishu or when Clinton bombed Sudan? Where were the accusations that Clinton
lied over ``WMD's?''

The anti-war hypocrites were nowhere to be found. Apparently, whether or not a
war is a bad thing depends on who's president.

Mike SchleeterSan Jose

Public financing has many limits

Public financing of elections sounds good on the surface, but it doesn't solve
the basic problem of special interest influence (Editorial, March 27). It does
nothing to curb money spent and or services provided by third parties -- PACs,
unions and other organizations. It would become unwieldy and costly because
candidates wouldn't need to raise funds themselves; therefore many more people
would run for office.

Until the public demands and receives full disclosure from candidates and
rejects any candidate who may be obligated to repay campaign favors to any
special-interest group, we will continue to be plagued by the sleaze that has
permeated our political processes.

Jack KnollSan Jose

City executives deserved raise

The comments of Beth Stephens and Melissa Albrecht were very interesting and so
right out of the unions' ``talking points'' (Letters, March 26). Apparently they
did not read the memo pointing out that these city executives actually had lower
base salaries than in 2001. The appointees are the top management of San Jose.
They are not protected by a union, are employed ``at will'' by the council and
have their salaries negotiated in public. Are the unions willing to do the same?
I think these executives deserve at least the same wage increases as the
public-safety unions have received from 2001 to 2006.

Stan SinclearSan Jose

What about unfair cartoons?

You had an interesting debate between columnists in Sunday's Perspective
section. You summed up the controversy with the title: ``All's fair in Bush
cartoons -- maybe too fair.'' Not even considered was the possibility that the
cartoons might be totally UNfair.

Frank L. MessersmithCupertino

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

Bush hopes to repair fences with neighboring nations

BYLINE: Michael A. Fletcher, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 571 words


CANCÚN, Mexico -- President Bush began two days of meetings Thursday with
Mexican President Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper in
hopes of repairing fissures that have developed in the relationship among the
North American neighbors.

Although the three nations entered into a formal security-and-prosperity
partnership last year that was intended to strengthen their ties, the
relationship between the United States and both its neighbors has been
characterized in recent years by creeping distrust over issues such as illegal
immigration and the implementation of U.S. trade policy.

Mexico has a huge stake in the ongoing debate in the United States over
revamping immigration policy, as the home country of two-thirds of the estimated
11 million undocumented workers in the United States. Tens of thousands more
Mexicans attempt to cross the border each month.

After a meeting with Fox on Thursday, Bush told reporters he had reiterated his
desire to sign a comprehensive immigration bill that strengthens border security
and enforcement. Bush said the United States has an ``obligation'' to secure its
borders, and he thanked Fox for acknowledging Mexico's ``shared responsibility''
in that effort.

Bush also repeated his call for an increase in the number of green cards, which
would allow more immigrants to be granted permanent residency in the United
States. And he once again called for creation of a ``guest worker'' program that
would create a legal channel for thousands of low-skilled workers to come into
the United States.

``We don't want people sneaking into our country who are going to do jobs
Americans don't want,'' Bush said. ``We want them coming in an orderly way.''

Analysts say many Mexicans have been put off by what they perceive as an
increasingly hostile view in the United States toward illegal immigration,
including a bill passed by the House in December that would step up enforcement
in part by building a wall along more than a third of the 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexican border.

The Senate is debating a more moderate immigration measure that includes a
guest-worker program like the one long advocated by Bush.

Canadian attitudes toward the United States, meanwhile, have been soured by the
invasion of Iraq and a general perception that Bush has pursued an arrogant,
go-it-alone foreign policy. For some, that has been symbolized by the
long-running dispute over heavy U.S. tariffs on softwood lumber imports from
Canada.

Former Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin suspended talks last year on the $4.5
billion in duties the United States has placed on the lumber, saying the levy
violated the spirit of the North American Free Trade Agreement.

Harper has said he is looking for ways to make progress on the issue. Bush said
he is ``always optimistic'' that the dispute could be resolved.

Canadians also have objected to a U.S. plan to require special identification
cards for people who regularly cross the border with Canada and Mexico, saying
it would hinder tourist and commercial traffic. Harper said the proposal
presents a ``pretty significant challenge.''

Bush, however, has said the cards will expedite the flow of commerce between the
two nations and facilitate travel between the neighbors, while helping to secure
the U.S. borders.

``The idea is to make sure that tourists and trade move freely and terrorists
don't,'' Bush said in an interview earlier this week with Canada's CTV.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

No national view on immigration

BYLINE: D'Vera Cohn, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 366 words


Most Americans are divided about whether those who are here illegally should be
sent home or allowed to stay, according to a poll released Thursday.

The poll found that U.S. residents have a growing concern about the impact of
immigration, and that many worry about the impact on jobs or believe that
today's foreign-born population is less likely to assimilate than in the past.
But most consider immigration less serious than other problems.

The release of the poll by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press
and the Pew Hispanic Center comes amid a heated debate over comprehensive
immigration legislation in Congress, and the survey was commissioned to play a
role in that debate. Some lawmakers want to put emphasis on border security;
others would create either a permanent path to citizenship for the nation's
nearly 12 million illegal immigrants or a temporary ``guest worker'' program.

The telephone poll of 2,000 adults was taken from Feb. 8 to March 7. The
sampling error was plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.

The poll found that a growing majority of Americans hold favorable opinions of
immigrants as individuals, but that a rising share believe they are more burden
than asset to the country. There is no clear majority view for what to do about
illegal immigrants.

``People are worried about the cost of immigration, but at the same time they
view immigrants with some admiration,'' said Gabriel Escobar, associate director
of the Pew Hispanic Center. ``That's what sets up the ambivalence.''

The poll found the country nearly evenly divided over what to do about illegal
immigrants: Thirty-two percent think they should be allowed to stay permanently,
32 percent would create a temporary-worker program that would require them to go
home eventually and 27 percent want all of them told to leave.

In the Washington, D.C., area, 37 percent would let them stay, 28 percent would
create a temporary-worker option and 21 percent would require them to leave.

On the question of how to stem illegal immigration: Half in the poll say
employers should be penalized for hiring them, a third want to expand the U.S.
Border Patrol and fewer than 10 percent favor building more fences.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Undocumented history may affect entry to college

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 571 words


Q An acquaintance of ours is an undocumented Mexican resident who has lived and
worked in San Jose for more than 12 years. His daughter, who immigrated with him
as a baby, is about to graduate from high school with very good grades.

The family has applied for citizenship but has not received it. Can the daughter
apply and gain admission to California State University without a legal
residence or a Social Security number? Can she do so without fear of
deportation?

Carol BrooksSan Jose

A Two things are not clear: what type of immigration benefit the family has
applied for and whether they've received a response from the federal immigration
agency, said Alicia Spiva, an immigration representative accredited by the
federal Bureau of Immigration Appeals, who works in Immigration Legal Services
of Catholic Charities in San Jose.

As a general rule, when applying for admission to CSU, a student is required to
provide certain information, Spiva said, such as an alien number for students
who are not United States citizens or a Social Security number. If you don't
have this information, you can simply note ``N/A'' or not applicable, Spiva
said.

For more information on California State University admission requirements,
visit the school system's Web site at www.calstate.edu and click on
``Application, Admission and Fee Info.''

Spiva cautioned that, as undocumented immigrants, the family may face
deportation.

You friends should consult with an immigration attorney or a BIA-accredited
representative to understand what options may be open to them, Spiva said.

Q Do we have to be United States citizens to apply for U.S. passports?

What document do I need to travel abroad? I am a Canadian citizen and have been
living in the United States for the past five years. When am I eligible to apply
for U.S citizenship? Can I keep both citizenships?

Kim DangCupertino

A Only United States citizens can apply and secure United States passports. If
you're a permanent resident, you will need your green card and your Canadian
passport to travel abroad.

The length of time you've lived in the United States as a permanent resident, or
a green card holder, does not automatically confer U.S. citizenship. You must
apply for it, and it's a long, complex process.

I would suggest that you visit the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Web
site at http://uscis.gov/graphics/index.htm and click on ``Naturalization.''

In general, you must wait five years before you qualify to apply for
citizenship. You are also required to have lived most of these five years in the
United States.

The United States recognizes dual citizenships from many countries, but your
home country may not. A useful guide to dual citizenship is a book called
``Citizenship Laws of the World,'' which can be found online (www.opm.gov/extra/
investigate/IS-01.pdf).

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send questions to immigration @mercurynews.com or fax (408) 288-8060. You can
also write to: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News, Newsroom, 750 Ridder
Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question considered, you MUST
include your name, city of residence and daytime phone number.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 3, 2006 Monday

A sympathetic public

BYLINE: Howard Mintz, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 708 words


Nearly six out of 10 Californians support allowing illegal immigrants to become
legal residents and continue living and working in the state, according to a new
poll released Sunday by a San Jose State University research center.

With the issue of illegal immigration roiling the nation and Congress, a broad
spectrum of California residents backs legal status for undocumented workers --
59 percent of all adults polled support the controversial idea, the Survey and
Policy Research Institute found. Registered voters also support allowing illegal
immigrants to become legal, 54 percent to 36 percent.

Meanwhile, a second nationwide poll released Sunday revealed support across the
country for the narrower -- but equally explosive -- proposal to give
undocumented workers temporary legal status to remain in the United States. But
that Associated Press poll also found Americans divided over whether illegal
immigrants help or hurt the country.

In the California poll, the only staunch opposition to allowing illegal
immigrants to become legal residents came from Republican voters. Just 40
percent of Republicans supported it, compared with 65 percent of Democrats,
underscoring a deep partisan rift on immigration in the state's political
landscape.

California immigration-rights advocates were heartened by the overall poll
results.

``These kinds of polls are showing that public opinion is significantly
different than what is often portrayed,'' said Reshma Shamasunder, director of
the California Immigrant Welfare Collaborative.

Groups that are fighting to tighten immigration policies say public reaction to
polls like the California survey depends on the wording of the questions. They
insist most Californians do not favor amnesty for illegal immigrants.

``I don't think that poll asked the right questions,'' said Mike Spence, head of
the California Republican Assembly, a grass-roots organization that is pushing
for a stop to illegal immigration. ``It's clear a majority is in favor of
enforcing our laws.''

Philip J. Trounstine, director of the Survey and Policy Research Institute, said
the poll suggests that Californians are indeed receptive to finding ways for
undocumented workers to secure legal status.

``Although some politicians appear to be trying to stir up the issue, our survey
suggests that Californians are not nativistic or xenophobic,'' Trounstine said.

The survey, which sampled 1,008 California residents between March 27 and March
31, found some difference in attitudes based on demographics. Latinos were much
more in favor of legal status for illegal immigrants than Californians of Asian
descent -- 80 percent of Latino adults support it, compared with 47 percent of
Asian adults, according to the poll.

The margin of error for all adults is plus or minus 3.1 percentage points, and
plus or minus 3.7 points for registered voters.

On a national level, there was less of a political divide between Republicans
and Democrats on the issue of temporary-worker status. The AP poll found 62
percent of Democrats and 52 percent of Republicans support temporary legal
status for undocumented workers. Political analysts see an opening in such poll
results for President Bush, who supports a temporary guest-worker program.

The survey, however, found great ambiguity on whether illegal immigrants are
good or bad for American society. Fifty-one percent said illegal immigrants
mostly make a contribution to society; 42 percent said they were mostly a drain.

Both sides in the immigration debate predicted opinion would move in their
direction as people become better informed.

``If you ask, in general, whether people are in favor of amnesty, the polling
drops,'' said Spence of the California Republican Assembly.

Michelle Waslin, director of immigration-policy research for the National
Council of La Raza, said support for legal status jumps when the public is told
the specific requirements immigrants must meet to qualify to stay in the
country.

The issue could reach a critical point this week in Congress. Senate Majority
Leader Bill Frist said Sunday that he wants a vote on immigration reform
legislation this week.

The Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Howard Mintz at
hmintz@mercurynews.com or (408) 286-0236.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday

Compromise sought on immigration bill;
GOAL APPEARS TO BE PASSAGE THIS WEEK

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 295 words


Republican senators uncertain of support for a proposal to allow illegal
immigrants with jobs to remain in this country reached for a compromise late
Monday to bolster votes for the measure.

Meeting into the evening in the office of Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn.,
the lawmakers considered allowing illegal immigrants who have been in the
country more than five years or who have other connections to the United States
to remain legally and eventually seek citizenship.

``We're looking at the roots concept, and that is if they have been here more
than five years,'' Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., said after leaving the meeting.

The fate of those with less time in the country was unclear, but Specter,
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, suggested they might be asked to go
to ports of entry, like the Texas border city of El Paso.

``What we're trying to figure out is something which will be workable so 11
million undocumented'' immigrants will come forward, ``not create a fugitive
class,'' Specter said.

The evening work was a sign of the pressure senators are feeling to get a bill
passed by week's end. Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., and Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla.,
who also participated in the meeting, said they were looking for a bill that
would appeal to a broader base and clear the Senate to begin negotiations with
the House.

The House passed a tougher bill last year that would make being in the country
illegally a felony.

The Senate began its second week of debate Monday on immigration but had yet to
resolve which of three major proposals it would move forward.

Earlier Monday, the Senate voted 91-1 in favor of a proposal by Sen. Lamar
Alexander, R-Tenn., to allow legal immigrants fluent in English to become U.S.
citizens in four years rather than five.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words

LOS ANGELES

Mahony urges prayer to legalize immigrants

Speaking with a sense of urgency, Cardinal Roger Mahony called on Catholics on
Wednesday to pray that the U.S. Senate passes legislation to pave the way for
some 12 million illegal immigrants to gain citizenship.

Mahony, who last month promised to instruct his priests to defy a House bill
that would make helping illegal immigrants a crime, told about 1,000 people
during a special noon Mass at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels that this
``was one of the most critical weeks in the history of our country.''

The House in December passed a bill to build more walls along the U.S.-Mexico
border, make being in the country illegally a felony and make it a crime to help
illegal immigrants.

SACRAMENTO

Committee OKs funds for special election

An Assembly committee on Wednesday approved reimbursing the secretary of state's
office $9.1 million for the cost of last year's special election.

The appropriation is needed so the office can start mailing ballot pamphlets
next week for the June primary election, said the bill's sponsor, Sen. Dick
Ackerman, R-Tustin.

Most of the cost of last November's special election was borne by individual
counties.

Based on preliminary figures supplied by counties, the secretary of state's
office estimates the election's total cost at $53 million.

Voters rejected all eight of the initiatives on the Nov. 8 ballot, including the
four promoted by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.

MODESTO

Killer's mother seeks funds from bereaved

Scott Peterson's mother is seeking $35,000 from Laci Peterson's estate for
mortgage payments and other costs she paid to maintain the couple's home after
her son was arrested for killing his pregnant wife.

Jackie Peterson filed court papers March 27 asking to be reimbursed for mortgage
payments, property taxes, utility bills and home repairs she said she made on
Scott and Laci Peterson's house between April 2003 and February 2005.

The house was sold in July and Scott Peterson's parents received some of the
proceeds.

ANAHEIM

Methodist women still want lesbian to speak

The United Methodist Women's Division is standing by its invitation to have
Emily Saliers, half of the folk-pop duo the Indigo Girls, deliver a keynote
address during a May conference in Anaheim. Conservative groups within the
church had campaigned to rescind the honor, saying it was inappropriate since
Saliers is a lesbian.

The Methodist Church does not condone homosexuality, though it also says gays
should not be condemned.

Saliers is scheduled to attend the conference with her father, theologian Don
Saliers. The two have co-written a book discussing music and spirituality.

At a meeting in Connecticut, executive director Jan Love told board members
about the campaign and the 1,800 messages she had received -- most of them
supporting the Salierses.

From Mercury News staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Cassidy: Immigration protests reflect our humanity

BYLINE: Mike Cassidy, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words


If my kids walked out of school to protest wrongheaded immigration ideas in
Washington, D.C., I'd lower the boom.

Grounded. No TV. Forget about visiting with friends this weekend.

And then I'd hug them. And praise them. And tell them how proud I am that they
stood up for their beliefs.

The marches. The demonstrations. They've been the most beautiful thing about the
angry debate over what to do with, for or to illegal immigrants. The young,
idealistic, energetic and bright, marching through the streets and rallying for
a cause.

The marchers will be out locally again on Monday, the ``National Day of Action
for Immigrants.''

Organizers expect Monday's gathering to look a lot like San Jose -- many
ethnicities, many faiths. Marchers will stop along the route to honor the way
Latinos, Filipinos and Vietnamese have shaped the city.

Everybody's problem

I'll take some comfort in the show of unity. The harshest proposals -- such as
making felons of illegal immigrants and those who help them -- aren't just a
Latino problem. They're not just an immigrant problem or an illegal immigrant
problem.

They diminish us all.

Such proposals, in the House immigration reform bill, represent the classic
deployment of a wedge issue.

They're taking our jobs. They're committing the crimes. They're crowding our
schools. It's us against them.

Cracking down on illegal immigrants is an appealing notion to many. I'll get the
bitter calls after this column, guaranteed. What part of illegaldon't you
understand?

Believe me, I understand illegal. But here's the part those who advocate
get-tough policies might not understand: Sweeping roughly 12 million illegal
immigrants out of the country would send the economy into a convulsion. Millions
of low-paid workers suddenly gone.

Illegal immigrants sometimes have children and spouses who are not illegal.
Deporting or jailing mothers and fathers shatters families -- hundreds of
thousands of families.

National character

But more than any of that, the demonization of illegal immigrants encourages us
-- native-born, naturalized, permanent -- to behave in ways that are
un-American. Former Intel chief executive Andy Grove, hardly a political
radical, was the first to point that out to me in a Wall Street Journal opinion
piece.

Grove railed against the House provision making it a crime to help the
undocumented. Consider an immigration worker who encourages a political refugee
to seek asylum, he said. Or a volunteer who brings food and water to a smuggled
immigrant left alone in the desert.

Grove is a Jew who as a child hid from the Nazis in Hungary. He knows how such
laws can shred the fabric of a country. He wrote about how the persecution of
non-Jews, who helped Jews, ``cast a wide blanket of fear over everyone.''

``This fear led to mistrust, and mistrust led to hostility, until neighbors
turned upon neighbors in order to protect themselves. Is this what we want?''

Not me.

Supporters of the lock-'em-up provisions dismiss such concerns. Mark Krikorian
heads a think tank advocating tough immigration enforcement. He put it this way
for the Mercury News' Jessie Mangaliman: ``The idea that some nun would be
locked up for giving some illegal immigrant a cup of soup is ridiculous.''

Really? Not long ago many thought it would be ridiculous to suggest that the
government would secretly wiretap its own citizens without warrants.

So, as the debate rages in Washington, I'll keep my eyes on the demonstrators in
San Jose. And if my kids want to march? Well, they're a little young. But the
event does start after school.

Contact Mike Cassidy at mcassidy@mercurynews.com or call (408) 920-5536.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 8, 2006 Saturday

The Amnesty Class of 1986;
A FAMILY'S STORY: WHAT HAPPENS WHEN MILLIONS OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ARE SUDDENLY
GRANTED PERMANENT RESIDENCY?

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, Mercury News

LENGTH: 1213 words


Illegal immigrants Manuel and Esther Dagio weren't exactly living in the shadows
when Ronald Reagan's offer of amnesty came along in autumn 1986. They owned a
business and a house and saw their four U.S.-born children off to public school
every day. Not bad for two Mexican villagers who never finished elementary
school.

``I was making $1 a day as a campesino when I left my pueblo,'' Manuel said the
other day at Dagio's Florist & Gifts in East San Jose. ``It was my dream to
return to Mexico, but that dream didn't last long.''

By now it's definitely, undoubtedly, dead.

But something else has come back to life -- another contentious debate over
illegal immigration and another proposal for amnesty. This time the nation's
leaders are even more divided over the issue than they were 20 years ago,
displaying rancor that caused an amnesty plan to collapse late last week.
Meanwhile, millions of people are protesting and marching in an increasingly
explosive atmosphere.

Two decades ago, we didn't know what happens when millions of illegal immigrants
are suddenly granted permanent residency. Today, there's a group of people who
could help settle the argument about the impact of legalization -- the Amnesty
Class of 1986.

Roughly half that group, 2.7 million strong, were in California. But how many
became self-reliant, and how many welfare-dependent? How many built businesses?
Bought houses? Or ended up in the Big House? Unfortunately the studies of this
group have been few, and the conclusions thin. California's community colleges
conducted a limited survey that portrayed this cohort as more healthy,
optimistic and harder-working than average Californians, but that was 15 years
ago.

Without better studies, we must look for examples -- like the Dagios. There is
no way to say they are typical, or extraordinary, but their amnesty experience
is genuine and powerful.

Manuel Dagio hasn't put on much weight since 10 p.m. on July 7, 1973, when he
boarded a plane in Guadalajara bound for Tijuana and an appointment with a
coyote, or border smuggler. He sports a delicate goatee shaved as sharp as his
memory for key dates.

His father's death, he recalls, left him in charge of a large family at age 29.
So he decided to follow a younger brother who had already joined the growing
stream of campesinos flowing north. Once here, he did what countless
undocumented immigrants do -- he hid in plain sight, working the underground
economy for whatever he could get, always looking for the next step up a most
uncertain ladder of existence.

He landed with nothing in East Palo Alto, but within a day he found work in a
plant and flower nursery. The pay was $1.50 an hour, or 10 times his wage
digging ditches in Michoacan.

A week later he acquired a Social Security number and card, which were far
easier to get back then. America was looking promising, but an ordinary event
drove the point home.

``I saw the real difference when I bought a car,'' he said.

It was a used 1967 Oldsmobile priced at $320. The salesman gave him the keys,
let him test drive it for almost half the day, and then sold it to Dagio for
only $100 down.

``A campesino like me could never buy that car in Mexico so quickly,'' he said.
``I bought that car after being here only one month.''

He got a California driver's license the following week.

``In this country, all you really need is a Social Security card and a driver's
license,'' he said. ``My only fear was in going to Mexico and not being able to
return.''

For a time, Esther Dagio's fears burned hotter.

She had come to the United States even before Manuel, in 1969. She too made a
home in the Bay Area, and went to work, but it all nearly came to an end eight
years later. While she was cutting and wrapping bundles of flowers for market at
a nursey in Fremont, Border Patrol agents suddenly raided her workplace. .

``The only reason they didn't take me was because I ran and hid,'' she said.
``Those were fearful days. We always had to look out for la migra.''

Her terror over the possibility of swift arrest and deportation lessened after
that near miss -- but slowly, gradually. She found a better job, cleaning at El
Camino Hospital, where she felt safer. In time, the government switched tactics,
from raiding workplaces to concentrating on smuggling and deporting immigrants
who ran afoul of the law.

And Esther's life grew more stable still when she married Manuel.

The two met when Esther was still cutting flowers. To earn extra money, Manuel
began to sell slightly old flowers at the Berryessa flea market on weekends. He
split the profits with the wholesaler.

By 1981, having a first-hand knowledge of the flower business, Manuel opened his
first floral shop in downtown San Jose. He and Esther had children. They settled
into their working-class East Side neighborhood. Then, in 1986, the amnesty
came.

As good as their new life was, the Dagios craved legitimacy, a status that would
allow them to cross the border without fear and make it easier to apply for
insurance, mortgages and other such services. They were applying for green cards
when the amnesty program began, offering the possibility of citizenship. The
Dagios jumped at the chance.

For them the blessed process went quickly because they had a trail of documents
proving they had been residents for more than 10 years -- the law's requirement.
They also had U.S. born children. Amnesty didn't change their lives; they had
already achieved most of their goals -- from having good jobs, to raising a
family, to owning their own home. But amnesty did allow them a precious ``sense
of relief'' that they still cherish and want for others.

Along the way, their children have done well, too.

Myra, 29, got a business degree from San Jose State and now works in Cupertino.
Fidencio, 26, graduated from Independence High School and plans on taking over
the family businesss. Manuel Jr. is a surgical assistant. Kathy, 20, studies
nursing at Heald College. Each of them is fluent in Spanish and English.

It wasn't always easy.

Fidencio talked about one of the ironies of life in a state with a love-hate
relationship with Mexico. In high school, some of the more Americanized
Mexican-American students called him ``wetback,'' even though he was as
American-born as they.

``Funny, isn't it?'' he said. ``But nobody says that anymore.''

The Dagios still have ties to Mexico. According to Fidencio, the store generates
a modest, $8,000 a month in sales -- but it is enough to send some money home to
relatives in need.

The family wishes, though, that it could be easy for others to discover the
happiness they have found.

``I think another amnesty is necessary today so that people who are like us can
live normal lives without fear,'' Esther said. ``We're not criminals. People
need to know we come here to work...and that we can become good citizens.''

Manuel Dagio knows he's been fortunate. ``Whoever is in this country ought to
feel grateful. I've had opportunities in this country that were not available to
me in Mexico,'' he said. But he also feels he earned the legal status he now
enjoys.

``By (1986) I had spent half my life in this country,'' Manuel Dagio said. ``It
was time.''

Do you have a story idea for East Side/West Side? Contact Joe Rodriguez at (408)
920-5767 or jrodriguez@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant movement on the march

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words


Illegal immigrants Manuel and Esther Dagio weren't exactly living in the shadows
when Ronald Reagan's offer of amnesty came along in autumn 1986. They owned a
business and a house and saw their four U.S.-born children off to public school
every day. Not bad for two Mexican villagers who never finished elementary
school.

``I was making $1 a day as a campesino when I left my pueblo,'' Manuel said the
other day at Dagio's Florist & Gifts in East San Jose. ``It was my dream to
return to Mexico, but that dream didn't last long.''

By now it's definitely, undoubtedly, dead.

But something else has come back to life: another contentious debate over
illegal immigration and another proposal for amnesty. This time the nation's
leaders are even more divided over the issue than they were 20 years ago,
displaying rancor that caused an amnesty plan to collapse late last week.
Meanwhile, millions of people are protesting and marching in an increasingly
explosive atmosphere.

Two decades ago, we didn't know what happens when millions of illegal immigrants
are suddenly granted permanent residency. Today, there's a group of people who
could help settle the argument about the impact of legalization -- the Amnesty
Class of 1986.

Roughly half that group, 2.7 million strong, were in California. But how many
became self-reliant, and how many welfare-dependent? How many built businesses?
Bought houses? Or ended up in the Big House? Unfortunately, the studies of this
group have been few, and the conclusions thin. California's community colleges
conducted a limited survey that portrayed this cohort as more healthy,
optimistic and harder-working than average Californians, but that was 15 years
ago.

Without better studies, we must look for examples -- like the Dagios. There is
no way to say they are typical, or extraordinary, but their amnesty experience
is genuine and powerful.

Crossing the border

Manuel Dagio hasn't put on much weight since 10 p.m. July 7, 1973, when he
boarded a plane in Guadalajara bound for Tijuana and an appointment with a
coyote, or border smuggler. He sports a delicate goatee shaved as sharp as his
memory for key dates.

His father's death, he recalls, left him in charge of a large family at age 29.
So he decided to follow a younger brother who had already joined the growing
stream of campesinosflowing north. Once here, he did what countless undocumented
immigrants do -- he hid in plain sight, working the underground economy for
whatever he could get, always looking for the next step up a most uncertain
ladder of existence.

He landed with nothing in East Palo Alto, but within a day he found work at a
landscape nursery. The pay was $1.50 an hour, or 10 times his wage digging
ditches in Michoacán.

A week later, he acquired a Social Security number and card, which were far
easier to get back then. America was looking promising, but an ordinary event
drove the point home.

``I saw the real difference when I bought a car,'' he said.

It was a used 1967 Oldsmobile priced at $320. The salesman gave him the keys,
let him test drive it for almost half the day, and then sold it to Dagio for
only $100 down.

``A campesino like me could never buy that car in Mexico so quickly,'' he said.
``I bought that car after being here only one month.''

He got a California driver's license the following week.

``In this country, all you really need is a Social Security card and a driver's
license,'' he said. ``My only fear was in going to Mexico and not being able to
return.''

For a time, Esther Dagio's fears burned hotter.

She had come to the United States even before Manuel, in 1969. She too made a
home in the Bay Area, and went to work, but it all nearly came to an end eight
years later. While she was cutting and wrapping bundles of flowers for market at
a nursery in Fremont, Border Patrol agents suddenly raided her workplace.

``The only reason they didn't take me was because I ran and hid,'' she said.
``Those were fearful days. We always had to look out for la migra.''

Her terror over the possibility of swift arrest and deportation lessened after
that near miss -- but slowly, gradually. She found a better job, cleaning at El
Camino Hospital in Mountain View, where she felt safer. In time, the government
switched tactics, from raiding workplaces to concentrating on smuggling and
deporting immigrants who ran afoul of the law.

And Esther's life grew more stable still when she married Manuel.

The two met when Esther was still cutting flowers. To earn extra money, Manuel
began to sell slightly old flowers at the Berryessa flea market on weekends. He
split the profits with the wholesaler.

Putting down roots

By 1981, having a firsthand knowledge of the flower business, Manuel opened his
first floral shop in downtown San Jose. He and Esther had children. They settled
into their working-class East Side neighborhood. Then, in 1986, the amnesty
came.

As good as their new life was, the Dagios craved legitimacy, a status that would
allow them to cross the border without fear and make it easier to apply for
insurance, mortgages and other such services. They were applying for green cards
when the amnesty program began, offering the possibility of citizenship. The
Dagios jumped at the chance.

For them, the blessed process went quickly because they had a trail of documents
proving they had been residents for more than 10 years -- the law's requirement.
They also had U.S.-born children. Amnesty didn't change their lives; they
already had achieved most of their goals -- from having good jobs, to raising a
family, to owning their own home. But amnesty did allow them a precious ``sense
of relief'' that they still cherish and want for others.

Along the way, their children have done well, too.

Myra, 29, got a business degree from San Jose State University and now works in
Cupertino. Fidencio, 26, graduated from Independence High School and plans to
take over the family business. Manuel Jr. is a surgical assistant. Kathy, 20,
studies nursing at Heald College. All are fluent in Spanish and English.

Struggling for success

It wasn't always easy.

Fidencio talked about one of the ironies of life in a state with a love-hate
relationship with Mexico. In high school, some of the more Americanized
Mexican-American students called him ``wetback,'' even though he was as
American-born as they.

``Funny, isn't it?'' he said. ``But nobody says that anymore.''

The Dagios still have ties to Mexico. According to Fidencio, the store generates
a modest $8,000 a month in sales -- but it is enough to send some money home to
relatives in need.

The family wishes, though, that it could be easy for others to discover the
happiness they have found.

``I think another amnesty is necessary today so that people who are like us can
live normal lives without fear,'' Esther said. ``We're not criminals. People
need to know we come here to work . . . and that we can become good citizens.''

Manuel Dagio knows he's been fortunate. ``Whoever is in this country ought to
feel grateful. I've had opportunities in this country that were not available to
me in Mexico,'' he said. But he also feels he earned the legal status and
citizenship he now enjoys.

``I had spent half my life in this country,'' Manuel said. ``It was time.''

Do you have a story idea for East Side/West Side? Contact Joe Rodriguez at (408)
920-5767 or jrodriguez@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Immigrants' legal rights

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 393 words


Should illegal immigrants be allowed to become legal residents?

Online poll results:

Yes.229 votes (33%)

No.455 votes (67%)

To participate in this and other online polls, got to www.mercurynews.com/news.

One of the most active reader polls on mercurynews.com in the past week asked
for your thoughts about whether the law should be changed to allow illegal
immigrants to become legal residents:

From: Manny2

I am a naturalized citizen. I complied and followed all immigration laws. At the
time I came to the U.S., there was a draft. I followed the law, registered and
did my stint in the U.S. Army and the Reserves for a total of six years. I
petitioned for my wife and we complied with the law. Now illegal immigrants come
in and the first thing they say is that they are above the law. The reason we
have a vibrant economy and a dynamic democracy is because we are a nation of
laws and that no one is above the law. If any law should not be enforced, then
it should be taken off the books. Until then, the law should apply to everyone.

From: myr

I think immigrants should be allowed to stay in the U.S. as legal residents with
the right to work here. They should also pay taxes as the rest of us do. As long
as they're not criminals and are not committing crimes I feel they're not
hurting anyone as long as they're working, not living on welfare. Many come here
for employment opportunities and do the jobs other citizens would rather not do.
Keep the peace as long as they're being productive members of society.

From: westsjgreg

Why should we allow people who come to the U.S. illegally to jump ahead of those
who have followed the law and who are making the effort to get in legally? Why
are we rewarding those people who are here illegally?

From: jfj1723

However it is done, it must be done to ALL other countries. It must be fair to
ALL. We need to treat the immigrants the same from any country. Iran, Iraq,
Russia, Japan, Egypt, Ireland, Colombia AND Mexico. It does not matter where a
person is from. They must be treated the same.

Online chats:

Monday, Noon to 1 p.m.: Dennis Rockstroh, Action Line. Topic: Consumer issues.

Thursday, 11 a.m. to noon: Frances Edwards, San Jose State University. Topic:
Earthquake preparedness.

Featured

content

Tax Guide: April 15 is quickly approaching. Get last-minute info and tips in our
annual Tax Guide www.mercury

news.com/business

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 238 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Most favor balanced plan for immigrants, poll says

Most Americans say the United States should confront illegal immigration by
toughening border enforcement and creating a new ``guest worker'' program,
instead of by only cracking down on enforcement, a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg
poll has found.

By a 2-1 ratio, those surveyed said they would prefer a comprehensive approach,
such as the one a bipartisan group of senators has proposed, to an
enforcement-only strategy, which the House approved in December.

The poll contacted 1,357 adults nationwide by telephone from Saturday to
Tuesday. The survey has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three
percentage points.

OHIO

Man charged in shooting of activist bus driver

Police charged a man who had a longstanding dispute with a black activist with
shooting him Wednesday across the street from City Hall in Cincinnati.

Michael Bailey, a city bus driver who goes by the name Gen. Kabaka Oba, was shot
in the leg, arm and chest, police said. He was in critical condition after
surgery.

Howard Beatty, 52, surrendered to police a few hours after the shooting.

MISSOURI

Couple admit sextuplets scam to bilk donors

Police said Wednesday that they were trying to determine how many donations were
received by Sarah and Kris Everson of Grain Valley, who admitted to a scam in
which they falsely claimed they were the new parents of sextuplets.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday

`Nothing gringo' is May 1 rally cry;
BOYCOTT IN MEXICO OF U.S. MERCHANDISE TO PARALLEL IMMIGRANTS' HOLDOUT HERE

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 558 words


``Nothing gringo,'' warns the rallying cry of Mexican activists calling for a
May 1 boycott of all U.S. businesses south of the border.

The campaign, aimed at pressuring Congress to legalize undocumented migrants,
was timed to coincide with ``The Great American Boycott,'' in which activists
are urging migrants in the United States to skip work and avoid spending money
to demonstrate their importance to the U.S. economy.

The Mexican boycott was being promoted on Web sites and through e-mail messages,
one of which warns that ``people shouldn't buy anything from the interminable
list of American businesses in Mexico. . . . That means no Dunkin' Donuts, no
McDonald's, Burger King, Starbucks, Sears, Krispy Kreme or Wal-Mart.''

Promoted by some of the same groups that organized massive immigrant marches
across the United States, the protest -- also dubbed ``A Day Without
Immigrants'' -- comes as Congress debates immigration bills proposing everything
from toughened border security to the legalization of all 11 million illegal
immigrants in America.

Mexican unions, political and community groups, newspaper columnists and even
some Mexican government offices have joined the call for a parallel boycott of
U.S. businesses in Mexico.

Advocates occasionally missed their mark in identifying boycott targets. For
example, they incorrectly identified Sears stores in Mexico as American-owned,
even though Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim has owned Sears' Mexico operation
since 1997.

And in an ironic twist, the protest targets the U.S. business community -- one
of the strongest supporters of legalization and guest-worker programs.

``Boycotting would only hurt corporations that are backing what people want done
in the immigration bill,'' said Larry Rubin, chief executive of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Mexico.

In place of a boycott, Rubin encouraged Mexicans who have relatives in the
United States to urge family members to write to their lawmakers in support of
comprehensive immigration reform.

Mexican groups were responding to the call for a boycott.

Pablo González, press officer for one of Mexico's largest labor unions, the
Federation of Revolutionary Workers and Farmers, said his organization would
support a boycott against ``at least four of the most important U.S. firms,
among them Wal-Mart,'' Mexico's largest retailer.

Two other major labor groups -- the telephone workers and autoworkers unions --
also were expected to join, said Roberto Vigil of the California-based rights
group Hermandad Mexicana.

Even parts of the Mexican government have signed on to the protest.

``We are not going to be buying any products from the United States on May 1,''
said Lolita Parkinson, national coordinator for the National Board of State
Offices on Attention for Migrants, which represents state government-run
migrant-aid offices.

For some, the boycott was fueled not just by debate on the immigration bill, but
by longstanding resentment over the perceived mistreatment of Mexicans in the
United States.

``We want to show the power we have as Mexicans,'' said Carlos Chávez y Pacho,
vice president of the chamber of commerce in Piedras Negras, across from Eagle
Pass, Texas. Chávez y Pacho is also urging Mexicans not to shop in U.S. border
cities May 1, citing what he calls arrogant behavior by U.S. customs officials
and border officers.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Amnesty sends an unfair signal

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 703 words


The issue of immigration is not about morality but equal treatment under the
law.

If we give illegal aliens amnesty now, it becomes a statement that every few
years, there will be amnesty, so illegals can cross our borders as early and as
often as they want. Are we going to give amnesty to American citizens who failed
to pay their income taxes? Are we going to give amnesty to American citizens who
failed to pay their student loans?

I am a naturalized citizen. I complied and followed all immigration laws. My
relatives have been waiting for over five years for their visas to immigrate.
Now you are making the case for illegal immigrants being exempt from the law.
What is moral about a class of violators being given the red carpet treatment
and allowed to cut in front of law-abiding immigrants?

Manny MadriagaSan Jose

Threatening Iran is latest insanity

Thousands of American soldiers dead. Many more thousands of Iraqis dead. A
military stretched unbelievably thin. Americans lied into an unjust and
unnecessary war. And now this administration is talking about nuking Iran? This
is insanity.

What happened to diplomacy? What frightens me is this administration does what
it wants when it wants, and to heck with laws and the Constitution. Be afraid,
be very afraid.

Mieke PaganSan Jose

Deficit of trillions prompts new label

We are all used to the expression ``tax-and-spend liberals'' applied in a
negative way to liberal Democrats. The current administration has added
trillions to our national debt. Isn't it true that this will have to be paid
back by taxes on our children and grandchildren? So isn't the term
``tax-and-spend conservatives'' also applicable?

Saul GoldstoneSaratoga

Boos for Cheney belonged in paper

I learned this morning that on April 11, Dick Cheney was loudly booed while
throwing out the ceremonial first pitch at the Washington Nationals' opening
home baseball game. I found no mention in the Mercury News on April 12, not even
in the Sports section. I did, however, find many articles I considered extremely
less newsworthy.

Such a thing could not have happened two years ago. I believe it indicates a
remarkable shift in public opinion regarding Bush administration policies. You
were negligent not to inform your readership of it.

Bill MackeySan Jose

Congress: Butt out of Bonds, baseball

Keep Congress out of baseball. With all of our challenges -- loose borders,
Iraq, terrorism, Social Security, health care, oil dependency -- it is
inconceivable that there is any time to worry about problems in baseball. Let
baseball and baseball fans work it out. With that psycho in Iran running his
mouth every day, the last thing that you need to worry about is Barry Bonds.

Neal GreenbergFremont

Avoid `illegal' but use `criminal'

I could not agree more with columnist L.A. Chung's article, `` `Illegals' label
denies individuals their dignity'' (Page 1B, April 12), where she correctly
pointed out that people themselves are not ``illegal,'' it is the acts they
commit that are illegal. Therefore, in fairness to all concerned, and to
correctly identify lawbreakers, shouldn't they be called ``criminals''?

Thomas HallSaratoga

Bush's Iraq slip-up sounds like excuse

Scott McClellan would have us believe that someone just forgot to tell the
leader of the free world that two trailers found in Iraq in 2003 were not mobile
biological weapons factories (Page 7A, April 13). This slip-up caused President
Bush to make false statements on TV several days later and his minions to repeat
this misinformation for several months after that.

Since no one was fired for failing to inform Bush, Powell, Rice, and Cheney that
the two trucks actually made hydrogen for weather balloons, I've decided that
the president's dog must have eaten the intelligence report.

Dave MagramSan Jose

It's time Rumsfeld resigns, already

How many generals does it take to screw a light bulb into President Bush's head
and make him realize that Donald Rumsfeld has to retire? There seems to be a new
one every day. Rumsfeld has micromanaged our forces into the mess we're in and
everyone other than President Bush and some guys on talk radio have figured out
that it's time for some major changes at the Pentagon.

Don WhitebreadMountain View

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2043 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Since population growth the main source of our present discomforts, we should
take reasonable steps to limit that growth. Virtually all of California 3/8s
growth is by immigration as is about half of our national growth. The potential
for free U.S. citizenship and the total lack of penalties for illegal immigrants
or for their employers is currently drawing a greater number of illegal
immigrants to the U.S. than we allow of legal immigrants. Until we achieve some
real enforcement of our immigration laws, the flood will continue, with its
consequent effects on our infrastructure (schools, roads, housing, health care).

It is incumbent on those who favor open borders to defend the proposition that
U.S. racial composition is wrong and should be changed. Theirs is the racist
position.

In global terms, the average immigrant to the U.S. has 0.6 more children
(Mexicans: 1.1) than would have been the case at home. Reducing immigration to
the U.S. reduces world and U.S. population growth and is the humane policy to
pursue.

Raymond R. White, Palo Alto

In Eugene Kennedy's exploration of the symbolic meaning of the Bible story of
Judas ("New gospel can't recast Good Friday villain," Perspective, April 16, p.
6P), he implies that the Gospel accounts are "wrapped in symbols and myths."
This assertion is questionable. For example, the Gospel of Mark is a plain,
fast-paced narration of what Mark believed to be the true facts of Jesus'
ministry. We should not conclude that Mark was trying to write an allegorical
tale just because the events he recounts seem uncanny or fantastic to us.

Roger Bonilla, Sunnyvale

Feeling as if you are shouldering more and more of a federal tax burden?
Wondering why? Here's why: First :The tax burden has been shifted to the average
taxpayer in the following ways: Since 1940 the corporate share of taxes has
fallen from 33% to 10% while the percentage paid by individuals has risen from
43% to 76%. Astonishingly, 95%of corporations pay less than 5 percent of their
income in taxes. Second: The level of taxes paid by the wealthiest indiviuals
has fallen dramatically from 90%in 1955 to 35%in 2005. Thirty-two percent of the
Bush tax cuts went to the wealthiest one percent of Americans. And the
elimination of the estate tax has yet to hit us. The wealthiest one percent will
be the main beneficiaries. Their total share of the tax cuts will be a whopping
40%.

Wondering where your federal tax dollars go and why the richest country on earth
can 3/8t do better for its citizens? Here's the real picture: Look at the
federal budget in the most honest way. Leave out Social Security and Medicare
which are funded by separate trust funds and separate payroll deductions.
Result: more than 31 cents of your federal tax dollar goes to the military for
past and present costs. When you add in the monies spent for military purposes
by other agencies, such as NASA and the Department of Energy and others, the
figure is 56%: more than half of every tax dollar. And, incredibly, this is
BESIDES the cost of the Iraq war which magically is an off-budget item and not
folded into the total.

Personally I have never griped about paying my taxes, but I sure wish everyone
paid their fair share. And I sure want the money spent on other priorities, like
education, transportation, the environment and health care.

Gail Sredanovic, Menlo Park

The media's coverage of the recent immigration protests and the protesters
themselves, need to address the facts. Both need to accurately differentiate
between legal and illegal immigrants. An immigration reform bill is needed to
address our illegal immigration problem. Those protesting, find fault with the
U.S for trying to resolve this problem; when in Mexico there are far more
stringent laws regarding illegal immigration. Why demonize our system for trying
to enforce laws that allow for a systematic and fair immigration policy to all.
Regarding the planned protests, I find it interesting that one main organizer of
these events, is the ANSWER (The Act Now to Stop War and End Racism) coalition,
a front group for the communist Worker 3/8s World Party founded in 1959.

Michelle Hayton, Gilroy

I'd like to comment on K. Corcoran's article `Talented 'heroes' get full
rides`(Pages 1B, April 13), about a scholarship program for two East Side
students to go to Catholic high schools.

It is a positive thing that this program offers a couple of student choices.
Unfortunately, the whole article reinforces the false perception that these two
girls would not be able to go to college or get a good education if they did not
go to a Catholic high school.

Even if one photograph shows a class of children practicing the violin at Leyva
Middle School, the only comment in the article about the school is that "40% of
its students are low income;" is this bad? Shameful? Something to run away from?
Another photograph has the following caption: "Alma Acosta of Morrill Middle
School is headed to prestigious Notre Dame High next year" What makes Notre Dame
High "prestigious?" Is it the fact that you have to pay tuition to attend, or
thet they can choose their students, but makes Morril Middle School not
prestigious - having peer counseling, City Year, Corner Stone and MESA programs
as mentioned?

Don't you think that these two students, like many others, could also reach
their goals and graduate from college if they attended public high schools? Many
students in many public high schools achieve just that, every year. Yet, reading
your article, one would think these two girls were "saved" from something evil
or from unavoidable failure. The article sounds more like an advertisement for
Catholic schools than a journalistic piece. Unfortunately, it was on the first
page of The Valley section. News needs to be less biased. Why this lopsided
view?

Margarita Palmada, San Jose

As a concerned citizen following the debate on illegal immigration, I've seen
quite a few letters, editorials, and op-ed pieces declaring the need for a
guest-worker program by casually stating that illegal immigrants do work that
Americans won't do. I don't believe this is true. Take farm work for example. A
lot of people have claimed that American workers simply won't do this type of
work. Hogwash. If farms offered say, $1000 per hour to pick crops, people would
line up for miles trying to get such jobs. Too high? How about $500 per hour?
Still too much? How about $100 per hour? Try $50 or $25 per hour. At some point,
a natural balance will be reached.

Americans probably would refuse to do such backbreaking labor for poverty level
wages, but would do so if offered wages that provide for their needs and fairly
compensate them for their hard work. The cost of food would naturally go up to
reflect the increased costs of farm labor. Isn't this how the concept of supply
and demand is supposed to work?

Capitalism seems to work pretty well with most aspects of our economy, including
employment in areas that require medium or high degrees of skill and training.
It can work just as well in jobs that require low-skilled labor such as farm
work, construction, child-care, or janitorial services.

The price of those goods and services would of course rise to reflect the
increased costs, but again, isn't this how a free-market economy is supposed to
work? If a job is seen as undesirable, and the employer has trouble recruiting
enough workers, then the necessity of offering higher pay and benefits to
attract employees seems like a natural "capitalist" solution. Instead, some
businesses want to game the system by demanding access to a large pool of labor
that is kept artificially "cheap." As illegal residents, they can be easily
intimidated by threats of deportation or quickly replaced by other illegal
workers if their demands get too high. By keeping their workforce at or below
the poverty level, business owners maximize their profits while at the same time
socializing the true costs of such labor by forcing the taxpaying public to
provide services such as education, welfare, health care and law enforcement.
Citizens and legal residents are undercut from jobs that could provide for their
families' needs by unscrupulous businesses and desperate people with no options
except to work for less than fair wages. This is immoral. In regards to cheaper
imported goods, tariffs could be used to level the playing field to stop them
from undercutting American producers paying fair wages and benefits. When I was
in school, maintaining a healthy competition between domestic and imported goods
was described as the main purpose for such tariffs. Today, it seems that these
international taxes are used instead to punish or reward other countries to
satisfy foreign policy objectives. If people choose to buy imported goods over
American products, the reasons should be about quality and value, rather than an
attempt to devalue human labor, and force those who perform it to the bottom of
the economic pile.

The cost of dealing with illegal immigration is bankrupting some state and local
governments. Federal help to offset these costs is almost non-existent. Public
cynicism of an incompetent government that so selectively enforces its own laws
either to benefit private businesses and campaign donors, and/or pander to
selected segments of the population is at an all time high. People who have
followed all of the rules and waited sometimes years for their chance to live
legally in this country see others rewarded for violating the law and simply
cutting their way in line. It seems to me that the true cost of all of this
"cheap" labor is simply too high.

Rich Martin, Sunnyvale

This weekend I read an article in San Jose Mercury New on Proposition 82 dated
April 15th - the Rob Reiner preschool bill. The article had interviewed several
people who would be adversely affected by the bill if it became law. The issue
that came to light was that many private preschools would shut down due to
economic reasons. They believe that the state would require private preschool
teachers to have a bachelor's degree and thus have to pay a competitive salary.
The preschools would go out of business because the operating costs would be too
high due to this potential salary hike. Another issue that came up was that
preschools in religious setting would not be funded due to the separation of
church and state. These are all seem to be sound arguments against proposition
82 but I feel that the real issue was not addressed here. What about funding
K-12? I believe we need to fix the K-12 issue before we give our state
government an opportunity to mess up another educational program.

My thesis may sound harsh and critical of the state and I do believe a preschool
law would be an excellent addition to our educational system - but not now; not
until we have figured out how to correct the problems of our current system and
adequately maintain our K-12 classrooms. For instance, I received a letter from
my daughter's high school science teacher begging for copy paper because the
school district can't afford to buy it. I was very discouraged to know that my
local high school doesn't have the materials it needs to be successful. But
that's not the worst problem I found at this high school. It was the lack of
books that angered me the most. Another disturbing example is a geometry teacher
- again my daughter's - told me she only had four geometry books to support two
hundred and fifty students. I asked the instructor what she did to work around
this. She stated that she made copies of the book on the school copier and
passed the out to her students. So do you see the problem? Teacher with no books
is using paper from storage that's affecting the science teacher. Does it sound
like a vicious circle? You bet. There were other problems I found with funding
my daughter's school but the list was too long to go into. Again, fixing our
current K-12 problems first should be our highest priority.

Before we tax those who make $400k a year on a bill that affect only
preschoolers, let's concentrate on the rest of the system before dive into a new
program. I'll be voting no on proposition 82.

Michael Marfell, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2922 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

In all the hullabaloo about illegal immigrants now living and working in the
United States I would like to express some common sense.

For there to be an estimated twelve million illlegal immigrants in the country
it didn't happen overnight. So, how did this situation come to pass?

The American people have been led to believe that illegal aliens are necessary
to keep our National Economy afloat; that they are the only ones who will
perform unskilled labor for low wages. I beg to differ!

American workers have been steadily undermined by low-wage workers which not
only is a drag on our economy but robs our young people of incentives to gain
experience and work ethics as they enter the job market.

Has America forgotten that this country was built by American labor aided by
trade unions that provided solid apprentice-ship programs. American labor once
made a decent living while being productice and taking pride in their work.

American workers put their hearts and minds in making America great only to see
all their progress undermined by cheap labor.

People who smuggle themselves into the U.S. put themselves in jeopardy. So,
instead of marching and protesting for rights that do not legally belong to them
they ought to march and protest in their own countries for citizen's rights.
This is what American Labor had to do in the 1930's and beyond for decent wages
and fair labor practices. They laid down the foundation for collective
bargaining and conditions of employment that still endure.

In my opinion the biggest collaborators causing the influx of illegal aliens are
American employers who hire them.

As for solutions, the idea of having a Guest Worker Program or amnesty are only
excuses for keeping cheap labor. As for the organized protests, while on the
wrong side of the law, are a glimpse into the future when conditions may even be
worse.

V. O'Brien, San Jose

There is a very simple solution to provide true security from "`terrorists." The
"terrorists" contend, rightly so, that we are continuously meddling in their
affairs, in their part of the world. Our meddling is solely based on our severe
dependence on the source of energy there, oil. Darrell Dobbertin (Letters, April
22) asks if anyone has considered how much the war costs of $10 Billion/Month
would achieve towards energy independence if this money were to be invested in
photovoltaics. I surely have, and applaud his mentioning of this possibility.

My suggestion would be to invest this war-money as tax breaks for the purchase
of hybrid and flex cars as well as active solar panels. I cannot help but think
that we could achieve a great degree of energy independence if every building in
America were to have solar panels installed, in addition to having all autos
being sold with hybrid or flex-fuel technologies only. And what about developing
something I would call a tri-flex hybrid, which would be a hybrid that can use
gasoline or the E85 ethanol blend. That would allow a car to run on as little as
5% gasoline consumption compared to a current "normal" car, which runs on 100%
gasoline consumption.

If the federal government basically paid for the increased costs that consumers
have in order to purchase these energy saving technologies through tax credits,
this would not only reduce our consumption greatly without forcing drastic
changes in behavior, it would strongly improve these technologies by generating
revenue for further research and development of even more efficient energy
savings. The energy savings to consumers would then be spent on goods, thus
supporting our economy as a whole, not to mention the drastic improvement for
our environment the reduced emissions would bring.

Given that we will soon have spent $400 Billion in Iraq and Afghanistan in order
to `make the world safer from terrorists`, it seems to me that this money could
have been spent much more wisely by addressing the root problem we have in the
Middle East: dependence on oil.

Jeff Aragon, Campbell

San Jose Mercury 4/27/06, pg.4A, "Senate report suggests FEMA be abolished for
being so fundamentally dysfunctional" during Hurricane Katrina.

On Pg. 5B results of a poll reported, "Californians increasingly worried about
the state's schools." It can be documented that dissatisfaction with government
schools is not confined to California. Downward spiral of education across the
nation can be traced from the time when the Federal government began to involve
itself in education big time, with passage of ESEA in mid 1960's, all the way to
No Child Left Behind debacle.

Where are the Senate calls to "abolish" the Federal Department of Education for
being dysfunctional? Or could it be that the disaster of dumbing down of whole
generations was planned? Both parents and legislators need to do a lot more
homework re: the role the Department of Education has played in the process.

Mary Thompson, Campbell

As a San Jose native and a Stanford alum, I was disappointed by the tone of the
article "2 SJSU students to hang with Bush." Its editorialized voice was not
only inappropriate for a news article, but it also provided a disservice to the
community.

Throughout the article, in her own voice and through that of her sources, Ostrom
implies that Stanford exclusively caters to the "privileged` classes of society.
While there may be many privileged students at Stanford, it is far from the
truth to say that the university is only for families `who can pay over $30,000
a year" in tuition.

Stanford is one of the few universities in the nation that is need blind; a lack
of money should never keep a student from attending Stanford. The university
recently eliminated the need for families earning under $45,000 to contribute
anything toward the cost of tuition. My own experiences proved that financial
aid works at Stanford; I became friends with people from all walks of life,
including people from underprivileged backgrounds. The diversity at Stanford -
racial, economic and politica -creates a rich atmosphere that provides its
students with the best college experience possible.

To print such misinformation as this article has is irresponsible. Who knows how
many ambitious young San Jose students will read this article and think that
Stanford is out of their reach because of its seemingly high cost.

While I have no problem with an article praising San Jose State students for
their accomplishments - for it is certainly well-deserved - there was no need to
take on such a mean-spirited, competitive tone to do so.

Sincerely,

Stephanie Condon, Mountain View

As a senior at Stanford University, my first thought after learning of Bush's
impending visit to campus was: "Who's planning the protest?" Sure enough, the
next afternoon I found myself standing and chanting with fellow students and
community members in a united demonstration decrying the policies of the most
disastrous President in American history. I planned to go for an hour, at most,
but actually spent more than three hours awaiting an arrival that never
occurred. When the crowd dissipated around 6pm, we were tired and confused - had
Bush cancelled the visit? Had he somehow gotten in through back roads and
avoided our demonstration? Was he waiting us out, planning to come after we
left? Later that night I was thrilled to read a brief blurb in the San Jose
Mercury News explaining that Bush had in fact relocated his meeting due to our
protest, but I'm compelled to set the record straight. While we are proud to be
the reason Bush altered his plans, the Administration's claim that we "forced"
the change by "blocking the only road into campus" is just ridiculous. First of
all, Stanford is far too big and far too populous for there to be only one road
into campus. But more importantly, there was far too much security to allow for
such a disruption, even if we had wanted to do it. Metal barricades and various
law enforcement personnel present behind Hoover kept that crowd under control,
and out in front of the building there were many more officers, some in full
riot gear, and others later arriving atop horses, standing alongside the curb
keeping us out of the street. A few students were even forcibly removed and
detained by police for blocking an arriving fire truck, so it's clear that those
charged with securing the area were serious about doing so. In all honesty, the
Bush Administration's attempts to save face through lies actually serves to
disrespect and insult the scores of law enforcement officials who spent hours
securing the campus and maintaining order for his arrival; the official excuse
for Bush's absence implies that these officers failed, allowing protesters to
run amok in the streets and making original plans impossible. Let's be real.
Bush relocated his meeting to a home on the outskirts of campus not because he
couldn't get to Hoover, but because he didn't want to get to Hoover if it meant
facing us. Maybe he didn't want to give the press that particular photo-op;
maybe he's too emotionally fragile to face some of the signs we were carrying
(and there were some good ones); regardless of his reason, I can tell you it was
his choice, not ours. We simply wanted to face Bush and make our grievances
known; you would think a man so committed to democracy would have been happy to
greet us - Nevertheless, we're proud of our impact, and want credit where
credit's due. We organized, played by their rules, exercised our democratic
rights, and still intimidated the nation's top official into changing plans to
avoid facing us. We may not be Berkeley, but I think Bush got more than he
expected from his trip to the Farm.

Jennifer Rae Taylor, Stanford

n her Op-ed in Tuesday paper, Anna Eshoo uses Google as prime example of why
network neutrality is critical to the future of broadband. But neutrality
extends well beyond accessing search engines. It goes to the heart of
broadband's potential over the next 30 years.

The carriers are rationalizing their broadband investments with a "triple" play
business model, meaning they will offer voice, video and internet. However
today, early adopters are already using their home broadband connection for
voice and video services like Skype, Vonage, Sling, TiVo-to-go etc. These
services directly compete with the carrier's "triple play" business model, so
blocking them is a rational response for the carriers. It will happened!

These new broadband networks are based on fiber infrastructure and the owner of
that infrastructure has a de facto monopoly. Fiber infrastructure is analogous
to roads and water mains and just like roads, it should be considered a
municipal asset. So I suggest that in addition to pushing legislation for
network neutrality, governments lay dark fiber and make it policy that `the only
broadband road in our town is our municipal owned dark fiber, leased to all on a
non discriminatory basis`.

We have vigorous competition in the package delivery service, which would not
exist if one of the services owned the roads. We should assure the same
environment for broadband.

Stuart Jeffery, Los Altos

Patrick Buchanan (Opinion 4/26/02) takes Mary McCarthy to task for leaking
secrets that resulted in damage to the U.S. government in time of war. If she
were actually the source of the leak, she would have broken the law and must
suffer the consequences. But I feel that the leak is less damaging to the U.S.
than the facts themselves. The reality that America has secret prisons, and has
also imprisoned people for years without charges, is what destroys our nation's
reputation for Democracy, thus aiding the Terrorists. (Does anyone really
believe that Al-Qaida wasn't already aware of those prisons?) The government
sometimes classifies information to hide it from the American public rather than
from potential enemies. Sometimes Security Classification is used as a political
cover-up.

Caesar Grolemund, San Jose

Mark Twain said there are lies, dam lies and statistics. Richard E Geno's
(Letters, April 26) belief that rich people are paying all the taxes is only
true from the perspective of income tax and only for 2002 which is the latest
tax year for which data is available. What he doesn't mention is that in the
last thirty years the income of the richest two percent has gone up over four
hundred percent that is 400%, while everyone else's income has either gone up a
measly 1 percent or has gone down adjusted for inflation. He also does not
mention that the tax on capital gains a big income source for the richest five
percent of Americans was cut from twenty eight percent to fifteen.

While five percent of the population may have paid the majority of the income
tax it was because they have most of the money. The top two percent of the
income has more wealth then all of the rest of us combined. Given that fact,
their tax rate is rather low since most of them pay less as a percentage of
their income then I do. Lets stop telling republican lies. The rich are getting
richer mainly because the rest of us are getting poorer. It is not a zero sum
game. A cut in the capital gains or the estate tax has to be made up by raising
the tax rate on everyone else. If you paid your local, state or federal taxes
over the last five years you know what Bush's taxes cuts for the rich and his
illegal war have cost you. Mr. Geno you are just wrong.

David Hovgaard, San Jose

While sympathizing with Jewish people over the Nazi-inflicted holocaust, I
disagree, respectfully, with a statement in the Mercury News, April 24: "The
experience of genocide in World War II was comparable to nothing else."

The 1932/1933 Soviet-inflicted famine, on Ukrainian peasants resisting
collectivization, had estimated deaths of possibly seven million people. The
military not only swept in at harvest time to remove all food sources but to
prevent any outside help from reaching the starving people.

This terror was accompanied by a wide ranging destruction of Ukrainian cultural
and religious life and slaughter of the Ukrainian intelligentsia. Source:
"Harvest of Sorrow," researched by Soviet expert Robert Conquest and praised by
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.

May we never forget any form of collective inhumane behavior.

Ruth Polata, Mountain View

Regarding the letter by Alan Tippett (Price of gas has nothing on coffee, April
26, 2206), I want to point out a couple of things:

First: it is a question of choice to pay $4 for a cup of coffee at Starbucks,
certainly you can get less expensive coffee in many other places. You also have
the choice of no coffee at all. Second: we do not have much choice on gas, the
prices are basically the same everywhere. Most of us depend on our cars for
transportation and nearly all of them run on gas.

Graciela Blaum, San Jose

Pat Buchanan thinks it's a crime for reporters to acquire and reveal illicitly
leaked secrets when the result is to damage the U.S. government in a time of
war? And that it's shameful that the media get Pulitzers for printing these
secrets and protecting their sources, disloyal public servants?

Is he writing about his former patron's Watergate coverup scandal? Then too, it
was a time of war and the government was damaged by the revelations by public
servants disloyal to President Nixon. The Washington Post was awarded a Pulitzer
and continued to protect its chief source for decades.

Apparently Buchanan hasn't gotten over being part of that White House, the
now-dethroned champion of sordid tactics and lies.

Gabriel Bereny, Palo Alto

The sky is falling, the sky is falling. That's the call I hear from cat breeders
like Karen Johnson, Chairperson of the County Animal Advisory Commission, and
veterinarians like Eric Weigand, president of the California Veterinary Medical
Association, an organization that was against early spay/neuter which has since
saved literally millions of lives as evidenced by the declining number of
animals euthanized each year. The same organization says it's ok to cut off a
dogs tail or mutilate his ears, or cut off the claws (fingers) of a cat.

Veterinarians have no allegiance to animals, their allegiance is to the animal
owner/guardian. And why are breeders still breeding animals anyway when we are
euthanizing thousands every day? I'm dead set against breeding.

Adding "guardian" to the word "owner" in the County animal ordinance does not
change the fact that animals are considered property. The change will however,
be a term that young people will grow up with and instill in them a sense of
responsibility, respect, and compassion for our companion animals that is
missing in our society today.

Judy Jones, San Jose

I wonder how do "they" select the section 8 vouchers for the poorest of the poor
in our Santa Clara County? I heard the comment from some individuals I met
yesterday at a group gathering ` There is corruption in chosing the eligible
families and individuals too`. Is that correct? It was a surprise for me. I must
be naive to think that this agency is doing a great job in this area. I am sure
they do great works in many other sections. Please don't take me wrong about
their dedication to serve the public.

Would your newspaper do a thorough investigation on how they distribute the
vouchers and educate the public about this agency 's work please. I am an
advocate for the poor and I work for the poorest of the poor in San Jose.
Tomorrow is the last day for people to apply.

Margarita Tran, Health Realization Analyst, Department of Drug and Alcohol
Services, Santa Clara County, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Illegal immigrants must agree to close borders, assimilate

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 783 words


The thousands of illegal aliens protesting this past month have essentially been
telling the American people the following:

``You knew we were illegal when we came here to work in silence. But you said
nothing when we were hired at your low-paying jobs. Now when you think there are
too many of us, you suddenly change the rules and tell us we alone are the
lawbreakers and must leave.''

In their hurt and anger, the initial televised marchers carried Mexican flags
and shouted about ethnic pride. This only turned off tens of millions of
American viewers, who scoffed in response, ``If Mexico is so great, why come
here in the first place?''

As a result, politically astute advisers to the demonstrations charted a
different course. At more recent rallies, protesters have carried red, white and
blue banners. And they've voiced a desire to become U.S. citizens.

This change in tactics, however, raises an important question. If American
citizens are now to hold the crowds in the streets to their most recent
incarnation, will most of the illegal-alien protesters truly wish to become full
U.S. citizens with all that entails?

Remember, citizenship is never defined by the applicant, only by the benefactor.
In America, it doesn't involve racial or ethnic allegiance. Rather, U.S.
citizenship asks immigrants to make linguistic, political and social
concessions.

So, imagine an immigration compromise that, in exchange for strict border
enforcement, allows the majority of the current 11 million resident illegal
aliens to remain here to start their citizenship process. Wouldn't it then be
natural to expect these future Americans to understand that U.S. citizenship
carries as many responsibilities as rights?

In a country that is increasingly multiethnic and multiracial, it no longer
makes sense to rely on bilingual government documents and services for a
particular ethnic group. Such duplication is expensive and hampers English
immersion. It's also the road to tribalism, whose bitter fruits we know well
from the Balkans to Rwanda. Those who now march professing their desire to
become Americans must quickly learn the English language, as have hundreds of
past immigrant groups.

As American citizens, newcomers must also realize that no nation can remain
sovereign without controllable borders. So Americans would hope that they also
would support border enforcement of their new country. Employer sanctions, more
guards and a barrier will start to end the present unworkable system that led to
their own ambiguous status in the first place.

Something is terribly wrong when thousands of skilled engineers and doctors from
Canada, India and Mexico cannot easily obtain legal citizenship, while those who
cut ahead by the millions and cross the border illegally almost find it de
facto.

If we controlled the borders in exchange for allowing current resident illegals
to apply for citizenship, future legal and measured immigration from Mexico,
while perhaps somewhat greater than from other countries, would cease to be
either large or exceptional. The present perpetually replenished pool of
aggrieved second-class unlawful residents would soon vanish.

Also gone would be the romance of ``Alta California'' -- the strange notion that
demography and the labor market will do what the law cannot and extend Mexico
into the southwestern United States. We'd be able to jettison ``the borders
crossed us'' nonsense that tends to radicalize a shadow underclass and return to
the notion that we are all part of a melting-pot society.

So, yes, we need to take our cue from the protesters in the street whose
placards and banners at last broadcast their genuine desire to join us as
Americans. Let us, the hosts, help resident illegal aliens to meet workable
criteria to become citizens, as we ensure an end to the broken system of open
borders and labor exploitation.

But let the present aliens only become Americans in the fullest linguistic,
cultural and social sense -- just as millions from all over the world have done
before them.

Those of the left claim that racism fuels the anger over illegal immigration.
Those on the right agree -- but insist instead that the racism really comes from
La Raza separatism on the part of the unassimilated Hispanic community.

Very soon we could learn who in this sad debate has been telling the truth about
ethnic chauvinism. If conservatives would not worry over the ethnicity of these
new Americans and thus allow most of those already here from Mexico to stay,
then the onus will rest with the ethnic activists to urge rapid and full
assimilation.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON (author@victorhanson.com) is a classicist and historian at
Stanford University's Hoover Institution.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Local black leaders stress solidarity with immigrants

BYLINE: Jamie Morrow, Knight Ridder

LENGTH: 373 words


Former Oakland City Councilman Wilson Riles and other black community leaders
joined together at city hall Thursday to declare solidarity with illegal
immigrants.

The group, composed of members of civic, religious and activist organizations,
said they plan to hold forums all over the East Bay to discuss immigrant rights.

``I'm here today because I want all the undocumented people and the people of
color to know we stand in solidarity,'' said the Rev. Phil Lawson, interfaith
director of East Bay Housing Organizations. ``The African-American tradition of
Frederick Douglass, of Sojourner Truth, of Harriet Tubman, means freedom is
nothing if everyone isn't free.''

The group dismissed notions that immigrants take jobs that belong to Americans.

``The African-American community isn't falling for the rhetoric,'' Riles said.

Jakada Imani of the Oakland-based Ella Baker Center for Human Rights said his
grandmother faced similar attitudes when she emigrated from the South to
California.

``They told her she didn't have a right to work the jobs they didn't want to
work,'' Imani said.

America wants to shop for the cheap fruits and vegetables picked by illegal
immigrants, Imani said, but then says those workers are taking away jobs.

``They say people are taking something from us,'' Imani said. ``But we ain't
never had it. And it's not ours to give.''

Growing up with his grandmother's stories of black slaves escaping to freedom,
Imani said he understands immigrants' struggles for a better life.

``Our folks stole away in the night, crossing rivers, following that star,''
Imani said. ``It is hypocritical to stand here and say others should not look
for that freedom, other folks shouldn't go north.''

African-Americans are in a unique moral position to comment on immigration
rights, said the Rev. Dr. J. Alfred Smith of the Allen Temple Baptist Church.
Unlike every other group except Native Americans, Africans were not immigrants,
having been forcibly brought to the country.

``But you see, everyone else is an immigrant,'' Smith said. ``Before we tell the
Mexican or the Latin American to go home, the Irishman will have to go to
Ireland, the Scot to Scotland, the English to England, Germans to Germany. This
is a nation of immigrants.''

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Women: new wave of illegal immigrants

BYLINE: Julie Watson, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 464 words


Swaddled in dirt in the inky night, the newborn trembled as a stranger struggled
to snip her umbilical cord with nail clippers. A smuggler and other migrants had
bolted when the baby's 18-year-old mother screamed with labor pains.

But Lilia Ortiz couldn't just leave them in the harsh Arizona desert. Ortiz, 23,
had walked two days straight to get this far. But she knew what it was like to
struggle as a mother on her own.

The two women are part of a new wave of migrants. A decade ago, illegal
migration was dominated by men. Now more women are making the journey, risking
rape and even death to support their families.

The increase in female migrants comes as beefed-up border security has funneled
migrants through one of the world's most forbidding deserts, and as smugglers
adopt increasingly violent tactics.

Some cross with their children. Others leave them behind with relatives.
Pregnant women, like María Pérez, the 18-year-old who gave birth this week, walk
for days through the desert in the hope that their children will have a better
life as U.S. citizens.

Rape has become so prevalent that many women take birth-control pills or shots
before setting out to ensure they won't get pregnant. Some consider rape ``the
price you pay for crossing the border,'' said Teresa Rodriguez, regional
director of the U.N. Development Fund for Women.

If caught by the U.S. Border Patrol, women are often deported to Mexico's
violent border towns in the middle of the night, despite a 1996 agreement
between the two countries that promised women and children would be returned
only in daylight hours, according to directors of migrant shelters along the
2,000-mile border.

Worldwide, nearly half of the estimated 180 million migrants are women,
according to a report released in February by the Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean.

A study released last week by U.S. and Mexican migration experts, partly funded
by the Mexican government, found that nearly half of all Mexican migrants living
in the United States are women.

The female migrants are getting younger. Of migrants under 18 deported to
Mexico, females accounted for only 2 percent in 1994, when the United States
started cracking down at the border. Since 2002, they have made up nearly a
third each year, said Blanca Villaseñor, who recently published a book on
Mexico's female migrants.

Central American women face even more danger because they must first cross
Mexico, where gangs and even immigration officials have attacked women, said
Jesús Aguilar, a migrant-rights activist in El Salvador.

Ortiz and Pérez were caught by the Border Patrol. Ortiz was returned to Nogales,
where she vowed to try again. Pérez and her newborn daughter were recovering at
a hospital in Tucson, according to the Border Patrol.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Respond to boycott by staying in class, students are urged;
EDUCATORS DISCOURAGE ABSENCES FOR MONDAY'S IMMIGRATION EVENTS

BYLINE: Luis Zaragoza, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words


and Steven Harmon

Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

On the same day Democrats in the state Senate endorsed a daylong boycott Monday
to demonstrate the value of immigrants to the nation's economy, Silicon Valley
and state education officials urged public-school students not to walk out of
class to join the rallies against proposed immigration reform.

Jack O'Connell, the state superintendent of public instruction, San Jose Unified
Superintendent Don Iglesias and other officials and students were at San Jose
High Academy on Thursday to encourage students to discuss immigration issues
freely in class.

But skipping school, officials said, would interrupt learning, jeopardize school
funding and put students at risk of discipline for truancy.

``Stay in school every day, including May 1,'' O'Connell said at a press
conference in front of the school.

Monday's planned nationwide demonstrations are a reaction to proposed
legislation in Congress that calls for tougher border security, mass deportation
of undocumented workers and criminalizing illegal-immigrant status. Marches
earlier this month drew tens of thousands to rallies from San Jose to Phoenix to
Atlanta.

Organizers of Monday's boycott want immigrants to avoid spending, skip work and
stay away from school to highlight migrants' impact on the economy. Some state
legislators also said they planned to walk off the job themselves.

Lately, concerns about participants losing their jobs and kids missing out on a
day of learning are prompting calls for Monday's demonstrations to take place
later in the day.

That was a concern in Sacramento even as the Democratic-controlled Senate, on a
party-line vote, approved a resolution supporting the May 1 ``Great American
Boycott 2006.''

Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles, called on immigrants to stay on
the job unless they get their employers' permission, and for children to stay in
school. Still, Núñez plans on flying down to Los Angeles to take part in
marches, after he checks in at the Assembly on Monday morning. Members are
supposed to be at the Capitol on session days, which are Mondays and Thursdays.

Sen. Tom Torlakson, D-Concord, voted in favor of the resolution, but called on
parents to urge their children to stay in school.

Teachers should use the boycott as a way to ``discuss the value, the history,
the conflicts and the enrichment of our society that has come about with the
waves of immigration in our time,'' said Torlakson, a former educator. ``But we
should also urge students to stay in school to underscore the value of education
and use it as an opportunity to learn in a school setting.''

But Sen. Gloria Romero, D-Los Angeles, who wrote the resolution, said the
boycott will be part of history that will one day be recounted in classrooms
across the country.

``It's one day, out of 365, out of their lives,'' she said, ``for immigrants to
peacefully tell the country that we matter, we want justice.''

Republicans voted unanimously against the resolution, saying it encourages
lawlessness.

``The Legislature should not be encouraging students to leave school,'' said
Sen. Dave Cox of Roseville. ``And, it's irresponsible to recommend to people
they leave their jobs, especially when many can lose those jobs, whether they
obtained them illegally or not.''

Earlier this week, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, an immigrant from Austria,
implored people to avoid the boycott.

``There are only downsides,'' he said. ``It's bad for workers because some of
them will get fired. It's bad for people who they work for because they will not
have the workers scheduled to do the job. And it's bad for children if they
don't go to school. The way you show that you can become a great contribution to
this country and state is by going to school and being responsible.''

O'Connell said the state Department of Education would not grant public schools
any waivers to recover revenue lost because of student absences attributed to
walkouts. Most schools are funded by a formula based on student attendance.

O'Connell has been touring the state to warn about the consequences of student
walkouts.

Iglesias said San Jose Unified did not anticipate problems Monday.

``Students need to know they're free to express their opinions, especially
here,'' Iglesias said, pointing out that San Jose Unified's enrollment of about
30,000 is 51 percent Latino. ``They also should study and learn all they can
about the issue.''

Yesenia del Rio, a senior at San Jose High Academy, joined in urging classmates
to stay in class Monday and find constructive ways to express themselves.

``Students have a voice that deserves to be heard,'' she said.

Contact Luis Zaragoza at lzaragoza@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5803. Contact
Steven Harmon at sharmon@cctimes.com or (916) 441-2101.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

IMAGINE IF THEY ALL VANISHED

BYLINE: Patrick May, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words


Imagine waking up tomorrow and every immigrant living illegally in Santa Clara
County has vanished.

Many of the busboys, maids and field hands? Gone. Skilled carpenters, ceramic
tilers and roofers? Missing. Landscapers, contractors and factory workers?
Nowhere to be found.

What would happen? What would this county, with about 100,000 undocumented
immigrants -- one out of every 18 residents -- look like? Would the fallout gum
up the local economy as stores closed and construction sites shut down? Would
tech workers call in sick because their nannies didn't show? Would luncheons and
banquets that grease our social skids be canceled as kitchen staffs went
missing?

What about schools? Would teachers face classrooms full of parentless kids?
Would the lines at emergency rooms grow suddenly shorter? Would crops in Gilroy
simply rot?

On Monday, as millions across the nation take to the streets instead of going to
work to protest legislation that would declare illegal immigrants felons and
slap up a fence along the U.S.-Mexico border, residents in cities like San Jose
will be forced to take a look at a world that has long been right before their
eyes:

A sprawling community of faceless workers and furtive shadow families.

A vibrant but clandestine economy built on long hours and low wages.

An illusory labor market of applicants with bogus identities and employers who
don't want to know.

A population of 100,000 people whose status is as illegal as it is integral to
the region's economic, social and cultural well-being.

Imagine them gone.

``I would have to close the business,'' says Los Altos landscaper Job Lopez, who
doesn't ask his workers about their status, but suspects many of his day
laborers are undocumented. ``I would be out of business. Who else will do the
work? I don't think I can find white people willing to do that kind of work.''

The reverberations would ripple outward.

``There's a whole sophisticated network out there of skilled specialists and
craftsmen, an entire sub-sector of our economy,'' says Hugo Mora-Torres with the
Health Trust, a non-profit that provides services to the poor. If the illegal
among them ``suddenly left, that network would unravel, because the truth is not
that many people want to work that hard.''

Grand-scale disruption

Interviews with business owners, economists, farmers, social-service providers,
clergy, health care experts and illegal immigrants themselves reveal the rough
outlines of a grand-scale interruption to Silicon Valley life, where the sum of
individual impacts -- from tomato harvests to restaurant kitchens to auto-body
shops -- is much greater than its parts.

``If they go away,'' says San Jose home-builder Ahmed Mouada, ``the whole
country would be in trouble.''

In a reflection of the scope of this amorphous subculture, Mouada estimates as
many as 70 percent of construction workers in the county are undocumented.
``Believe me, I know. Even the ones who are documented and have papers -- it's
fake. But it's not just in construction. It's the restoration business, the
cleaning companies and in the kitchens of restaurants.''

It's also in the fields. Ben Anderson's house near Gilroy is surrounded by
farmland. He can watch the illegal job market while sitting on his front porch.
``See that 50-acre bean field there? Ninety days from now, you'll have maybe 200
workers harvesting it. If they were all gone, you'd see a bunch of bean plants
going to seed. The farmer would lose money; his quarter would be shot.
Eventually, the bank could foreclose on his house, his truck loan, his
equipment. Over time, the impact would trickle down.''

Evelyn Sanchez is with an Oakland group that brings unions and immigration
advocates together to work on reform. She said, ``Ninety percent of all hotel
workers, housekeeping, catering and maintenance, are all immigrant labor. Many
are legal,'' she said, but ``a great many come here illegally, literally
crossing the border.'' She met a Guatemalan woman who had come to the Bay Area
``hanging on the bottom of a truck,'' first into Mexico, then into California.

But gauging the precise impact of losing so many residents at once is tough,
largely because of the community's own surreptitious nature.

``There are a lot of misconceptions about undocumented workers,'' said local
labor leader Jim Homer. ``They will not use government services because that
might increase their chances of getting caught. They don't file for unemployment
and food stamps. They're the last ones to call in workers' comp. They don't want
the exposure.''

Some of the facts

This much we do know:

There are probably more than 100,000 unauthorized immigrants in Santa Clara
County, the majority of them Latinos, with a notable Asian minority, according
to a 2004 estimate from Richard Hobbs, director of the Santa Clara County Office
of Human Relations. According to the 2000 Census, about 24 percent of the
county's nearly 1.7 million residents are Latinos.

They tend to be young and employed, and are somewhat more likely to be young
men. There are also significant numbers of illegal immigrant children as well as
U.S.-born children living with parents who don't have legal status.

They are apt to work in unskilled or service jobs, possibly competing with legal
residents for some of those jobs, though one study by the Palo Alto-based Center
for Continuing Study of the California Economy concluded that the state has had
so much economic growth in recent years that such displacement has been minimal.

And while debate rages over whether illegal immigrants cost more in government
services than they pay in taxes, one study from the same center suggest this is
true for low-income families in general, regardless of legal status.

County officials say they have not tried to measure the cost of serving illegal
immigrants, but do not consider them a major drain on local budgets. By one
estimate, illegal immigrants account for roughly 3 percent of emergency-room
admissions at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center.

But, hospital spokeswoman Joy Alexiou adds, ``We don't ask and we don't know who
is and who isn't legal, because we don't want a barrier for people seeking care.
Especially with communicable diseases, you don't want people wandering around
because they're afraid to seek help. Diseases don't care who's legal and who
isn't.''

Police and jail officials don't keep track either. Schools, which by law don't
require proof of citizenship for enrollment, would face a similar challenge
penciling out the impact of losing undocumented students. In a reflection of how
emotional an issue immigration is for South Bay parents and educators, Don
Iglesias, San Jose Unified's superintendent, said he could hardly fathom such an
exodus.

Even if the government ordered public schools to track down and expel students
here illegally, ``I would not direct my people to do it,'' he said. His own
father was a Guatemalan immigrant, and 51 percent of his district's 30,000
students are of Latino heritage. ``Our mission is education. We would never turn
any kid away.''

Still, many Americans deeply resent anyone breaking the law by being here.

Roberta Allen, a San Jose small-business owner coordinating a counterprotest for
Friday and Saturday, said, ``It's not the immigrants that are the issue. It's
the illegal aliens that are coming in. The ones who are undocumented. We don't
know who they are, what diseases they're bringing, what gangs they're affiliated
with. Are they terrorists? We don't know any of these things.''

But we do know that without them, things could gear down quickly -- starting
with that lunch spot down the street.

Jeff Starbeck, owner of Sonoma Chicken Coop in San Jose and Campbell, has no
idea which of his 140 employees -- 80 percent Mexican -- are truly legal or not.
Many business owners, in fact, don't ask too many questions as long as their
employees can show a Social Security number. So ``immigrants'' becomes at times
interchangeable with ``illegal immigrants.''

``We require everyone to bring an ID, and we keep it on file. What's real? I
don't know.'' But none of the business owners he knows could ``survive without
immigrant labor. They run our business for us. They're very loyal, they don't
call in sick, they're the backbone of our whole operation.''

But beyond the coffee shops and vegetable fields, an exodus of undocumented
workers would manifest itself in many other ways. Non-profit organizations
serving the poor could see their roles change and their workforce reduced.
Esperanza Rojas, a nurse coordinator for Alviso Health Center, said, ``We'd see
fewer patients, so we'd have to reduce our staff -- for example, we'd need one
clerk instead of two; and maybe we'd have to send our patients to another clinic
to have lab work done'' because the lower number of clients would no longer
justify bringing in a private lab person on site.

The hospitality industry would be throttled, especially in hotels where busboys,
maids, cooks and bellhops are overwhelmingly immigrants. Union leader Valerie
Lapin said, ``If there were no immigrants working in the hotels, hotels would
come to a standstill.''

The illegal immigrants themselves know this well.

J. Garcia, 42, a janitor at a local college campus who preferred not to use his
full name, came from Mexico illegally, crossing the border in 1996. He lives in
East Palo Alto with his son, while his other son and wife are in Mexico. He
plans to skip work Monday to show his support for immigration reform. And what
will happen at his workplace without him around?

``The managers will go crazy,'' he said, ``trying to clear out all the trash and
clean up the offices. The client companies will complain that the janitors
didn't come.''

Even places of worship would feel the blow. Brother Bill Minkel, the Franciscan
priest who presides at the Our Lady of Guadalupe Church in East San Jose, sees a
congregation each Sunday of 3,500, most of them Latinos and Asian. Minkel said
he doesn't ``look at people and wonder who's documented and who's not,'' but he
has a good idea of what a church without immigrants would look like:

``It would be one color,'' he said. ``It would be boring. It would be like
Wonder Bread.''

Mercury News Staff Writers K. Oanh Ha, Brandon Bailey, Jessie Mangaliman, Lisa
Fernandez and Luis Zaragoza contributed to this report. Contact Pat May at
pmay@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5689.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 611 words

BOULEVARD

Immigration foes start work on border fence

As immigrants and their supporters prepared for a massive boycott, opponents of
illegal immigration went to work building a border fence meant to symbolize
their support of a secure border.

About 200 volunteers organized by the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps of
California began building a six-foot barbed wire fence Saturday along a
quarter-mile stretch of rugged terrain in Boulevard, about 50 miles east of San
Diego.

Tim Donnelly, the group's leader, said volunteers ate apple pie and hot dogs as
they worked on the fence, which was connected to an existing 12-foot-high fence
previously built by the federal government.

The volunteers wanted to send a message to Congress that the government should
block entry to the United States and not grant amnesty to illegal immigrants,
Donnelly said.

LOS ANGELES

Times writer punished over assumed names

The Los Angeles Times announced it is discontinuing the column and Internet blog
of a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter because the paper says he posted items
online using assumed names.

The discontinuation of Michael Hiltzik's Golden State column, reported in an
editor's note on the Times' Web site Sunday, came a week after the paper
suspended Hiltzik's Golden State blog. The editor's note said the blog was also
being discontinued.

``Hiltzik did not commit any ethical violations in his newspaper column, and an
internal inquiry found no inaccurate reporting in his postings in his blog or on
the Web,'' the editor's note said. ``But employing pseudonyms constitutes
deception and violates a central tenet of The Times' ethics guidelines: Staff
members must not misrepresent themselves and must not conceal their affiliation
with The Times.''

Hiltzik did not immediately return phone or e-mail messages seeking comment. The
editor's note said Hiltzik would be reassigned after serving a suspension.

It said Hiltzik ``has acknowledged using pseudonyms to post a single comment on
his blog on latimes.comand multiple comments elsewhere on the Web that dealt
with his column and other issues involving the newspaper.''

THOUSAND OAKS

Black bear in suburbs is returned to wild

A 300-pound black bear that spent several days roaming neighborhoods and
shopping centers was captured and returned to the wild.

A passer-by spotted the bear Friday night in Ventura County and called police,
who followed the animal in front of stores until the state Department of Fish
and Game arrived.

As the bear made its way behind a Target store, state officials sedated it with
two tranquilizer darts and released it into the woods.

The animal probably lived in the Santa Monica Mountains and wandered into the
suburbs for food, officials said.

The bear was first sighted last Wednesday near a high school. Nelson said the
public was not in danger while the bear wandered free.

ANGELES NATIONAL FOREST

Pack animals rescued after fall into canyon

A horse, donkey and two mules were rescued early Saturday after an 80-foot
plunge during a supply trip in Santa Anita Canyon.

The animals, part of a pack train heading to an isolated area near the Chantry
Flats, slid off the trail and down the side of the canyon Friday afternoon, said
Los Angeles County Fire Capt. Mark Savage. Their human handlers were not hurt.

The horse was injured in the fall, and a small group of veterinarians and others
spent the night in the canyon with the animals after a rescue was ruled out when
darkness fell, Savage said.

Early Saturday, about 30 fire and rescue workers hoisted the donkey and the
mules up the side of the canyon. A helicopter airlifted the injured horse a few
miles for treatment.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Amnesty opponents say viewpoint left out;
SOME EXPRESS OUTRAGE AT IMMIGRANTS' CALL FOR PARDON FROM U.S.

BYLINE: Julie Sevrens Lyons, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words


Vikram Srinivasan, the 18-year-old son of Indian immigrants, and Barbara Coe, a
Huntington Beach grandmother who volunteers as a ``Minuteman'' to guard the U.S.
border, come from two very different worlds.

Srinivasan is a high school senior in Cupertino who still has relatives in his
parents' homeland. Coe is ``a little older than my teeth,'' she says, and the
founder of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform.

But the two agree on one key thing: Like many Americans, they're spitting mad at
the movement to offer amnesty to illegal immigrants in the United States. And
they're surprised that immigration-related marches, rallies and boycotts in
recent months have been primarily sympathetic to those who have entered this
country illegally.

Although public opinion polls show a majority of Americans want the federal
government to crack down on illegal immigrants -- and on those who help them --
Srinivasan and Coe believe their viewpoint has largely gone unheard.

``It's like `Alice In Wonderland' and `Through the Looking Glass' --
unbelievable. Incredible,'' said Coe, who spent much of Monday at an Orange
County rally demonstrating against illegal immigration. ``We welcome legal
immigrants. We do not welcome illegal alien criminals.''

Although Monday's marches and boycott were overwhelmingly attended and organized
by illegal immigrants and their supporters, there were plenty of people who feel
just like Coe and Srinivasan.

Frustrated. Angry. Worried that the U.S. government is more interested in
currying favor with the businesses that depend on inexpensive immigrant labor
than on working-class taxpayers who, some studies suggest, may earn less because
of the immigrant influx.

``I think, like most Americans, it's a sense of outrage that you have millions
of people who have broken the law and are demanding to be rewarded as a
result,'' said Ira Mehlman of the Washington, D.C.-based Federation for American
Immigration Reform.

Some are outraged that those who are here illegally -- and demonstrating in the
streets -- aren't being detained and deported.

``Can you imagine hundreds of thousands of tax cheats holding a protest outside
the National Mall, saying `We're deadbeats,' and the IRS sitting idly by?''
asked John Keely of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C.

But for Srinivasan, president of the Young Republicans Club at Monta Vista High
School in Cupertino, the frustration runs even deeper.

His own parents followed all the rules when they came to this country legally
two decades ago. His father immigrated first; his mother had to wait several
years to be reunited with her husband.

Immigration is a long, tedious process, Srinivasan said, and it isn't fair that
many people who come to this country go through all the hurdles while others
evade them.

``If that system is being circumvented, that's less spots left for others,''
Srinivasan said. ``It just makes us angry that some people are trying to cut in
line.''

Contact Julie Sevrens Lyons at jlyons@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5989.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Immigrants' clout emerges from shadows;
VOICES HAVE BECOME IMPOSSIBLE TO IGNORE AS MILLIONS JOIN IN MARCHES NATIONWIDE

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 383 words


Regardless of how many dishes weren't washed, how many houses weren't framed or
how many strawberries weren't picked, a Day Without Immigrants made an
exclamation point across the nation Monday, even if it did not dent the economy.
The dramatic visibility of the undocumented immigrants will continue to make its
mark by forcing the discussion of immigration.

Leaders in immigrant communities were conflicted from the start over whether to
encourage people to boycott stores, skip work and keep children home from
school. Some feared a backlash from co-workers who might lose pay if companies
shut down for a day and from taxpayers upset over empty classrooms. But whether
they called in sick or rearranged their schedules, illegal immigrants, their
families, supporters and neighbors were a strong voice for reform as they
marched by the millions.

Many went at the risk of being fired; we admire their courage. Others had
permission of employers who recognized it as an exceptional event at a critical
moment; we applaud their forbearance. The impressive rally in San Jose, attended
by tens of thousands, was scheduled for late afternoon so students could go to
school first. All of the marches across the country were reportedly peaceful.

The catalyst behind the national mobilization was the U.S. House's passage of a
bill that would turn illegal immigrants into felons and criminalize the acts of
those who help them, including potentially the clergy.

Such a harsh bill will probably not become law; President Bush and most of the
Senate support a non-punitive alternative, and it would be unfeasible to deport
millions of immigrants and relatives. But the bill -- and the resentment of
immigrants it expressed -- has stirred fears in the immigrant community.

It's easy to demonize people who labor in the shadows and to set policy based on
stereotypes. Monday's demonstrations showed real families with the same dreams
as the rest of us. They were also a visible sign of growing political clout.

Illegal immigrants are integral to the economy and a vibrant part of
California's culture. While Congress should pass a law securing borders to make
it harder to come to America, it must not ignore the aspirations of the 12
million already here.

The longer Congress waits, the louder the voices will become.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

THE BOYCOTTS

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words


Monday's ``Day Without Immigrants'' caused barely a ripple at Home Depot and
many large stores. But at popular Casa Vicky on Julian Street in San Jose,
Classic Car Wash in Los Gatos and at Mi Pueblo markets across the Bay Area,
customers were greeted with shuttered doors.

Although an economic boycott was not officially endorsed by organizers of the
nationwide protest for immigration reform, thousands of mostly Latino employees
skipped work -- many with the permission of their employers -- and others didn't
open their wallets. In many places, the impact resonated strongly, but it varied
depending on the type of work and how well employers had prepared for missing
workers.

Across the state and country, hundreds of thousands of Latino immigrants
participated in boycotts and rallies to underscore how vital illegal immigrants
are to the economy. Though the overall economy didn't hiccup, economists said
there is no dispute that immigrants, including undocumented workers, wield
significant clout in the economy.

``If illegal immigration came to a standstill, it would disrupt the economy,''
said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com. ``It would lead to
higher prices for many goods and services, and some things literally would not
get done. It would be a major adjustment for our economy, for sure.''

The economic power of Latino immigrants was felt throughout the Bay Area in ways
both subtle and dramatic.

Al Lopez, who runs a small San Jose roofing business, left two houses with
gaping holes in their roofs because four of his six workers didn't come to work.
He couldn't get materials delivered because his supply company was short on
truck drivers and loaders. ``My business was dead today,'' he said.

The ripples extended to ABC Supply in Burlingame, which provides roofers with
material. The store's business fell 40 percent, a manager reported.

Some supermarkets that serve a mostly Latino clientele shuttered their doors in
solidarity with workers, including all of Mi Pueblo's 10 stores in Northern
California. At one Mi Pueblo in San Jose, business was up more than 50 percent
Sunday, as customers loaded up on food because they knew the store would be
closed Monday.

Workers at Mi Pueblo, like many others in businesses that supported the marches,
were given the option of using vacation or taking the day off without pay.

On a half-mile strip of Old Oakland Road in San Jose, five Mexican restaurants
closed their doors.

``It was the right thing to do,'' said Maria Perez, owner of Casa Vicky, as two
would-be customers knocked on the door and peered through the windows of the San
Jose restaurant. She estimates that she lost $1,000 in business. But ``we want
to support workers who are working hard for their families.''

Some restaurants that stayed open enjoyed an increase in business. A family of
three at the McDonald's on McKee and Jackson tried two different taquerias,
which were both closed, before ordering close to $20 worth of burgers.

The afternoon staging of the protest worked to employers' advantage. Many large
construction firms such as San Jose Construction reported little change in
operations. Most shifts are completed by mid-afternoon, allowing workers to
attend rallies after work.

Though most employers seemed to support workers who protested by taking the day
off, many also negotiated with their workers. When Adolfo Macias, owner of a
dry-cleaning store, learned that his four Latino workers wanted to take the day
off, he offered to let them leave several hours early to attend the rally nearby
at Story and King roads. ``I was an immigrant, too,'' Macias said. ``I need to
support them.''

Macias' wife, Raquel, did her grocery shopping during the weekend and protested
with her wallet. ``I'm not spending one dollar today,'' she said.

In many other places, though, the impact of the boycott was hardly felt.

Nearly 500 small and medium-size businesses throughout the state reported that
``business was usual'' Monday, according to a survey by the California
Association of Employers.

All of the approximately 100 Bay Area Albertsons stores were open during their
normal hours Monday, and there were no effects from the boycott, said Quyen Ha,
a spokeswoman for the supermarket.

San Jose hotels, which depend heavily on Latino immigrants, reported no
disturbance in business, in part because of advance planning. About two dozen of
the approximately 450 employees at San Jose's Fairmont Hotel who were scheduled
to work Monday gave notice that they would miss work to participate in the
protests. The hotel shifted employees to accommodate them.

In Sonoma, Gallo Wines offered time off to its employees, but most still came to
work, said spokesman John Segale.

Though many workers took to the streets, there were plenty of others who
couldn't afford to.

``I am with them,'' said Aurelia Ramirez, a maid at Horizon Inn. ``But I am a
father and a mother. I have to work for the rent and to feed my children.''

Mercury News Staff Writer Sue McAllister and the Associated Press contributed to
this report. Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Protests frustrate, anger some

BYLINE: Julie Sevrens Lyons, Mercury News

LENGTH: 511 words


Vikram Srinivasan, the 18-year-old son of Indian immigrants, and Barbara Coe, a
Huntington Beach grandmother who volunteers as a ``Minuteman'' to guard the U.S.
border, come from two very different worlds.

Srinivasan is a high school senior in Cupertino who still has relatives in his
parents' homeland. Coe is ``a little older than my teeth,'' she says, and the
founder of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform.

But the two agree on one key thing: Like many Americans, they're spitting mad at
the movement to offer amnesty to illegal immigrants in the United States. And
they're surprised that immigration-related marches, rallies and boycotts in
recent months have been primarily sympathetic to those who have entered this
country illegally.

Although public opinion polls show a majority of Americans want the federal
government to crack down on illegal immigrants -- and on those who help them --
Srinivasan and Coe believe their viewpoint has largely gone unheard.

``It's like `Alice In Wonderland' and `Through the Looking Glass' --
unbelievable. Incredible,'' said Coe, who spent much of Monday at an Orange
County rally demonstrating against illegal immigration. ``We welcome legal
immigrants. We do not welcome illegal alien criminals.''

Although Monday's marches and boycott were overwhelmingly attended and organized
by illegal immigrants and their supporters, there were plenty of people who feel
just like Coe and Srinivasan.

Frustrated. Angry. Worried that the U.S. government is more interested in
currying favor with the businesses that depend on inexpensive immigrant labor
than on working-class taxpayers who, some studies suggest, may earn less because
of the immigrant influx.

``I think, like most Americans, it's a sense of outrage that you have millions
of people who have broken the law and are demanding to be rewarded as a
result,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Washington, D.C.-based
Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Some are outraged that those who are here illegally -- and demonstrating in the
streets -- aren't being detained and deported.

``Can you imagine hundreds of thousands of tax cheats holding a protest outside
the National Mall, saying `We're deadbeats,' and the IRS sitting idly by?''
asked John Keely, a spokesman for the Center for Immigration Studies in
Washington, D.C.

But for Srinivasan, president of the Young Republicans Club at Monta Vista High
School in Cupertino, the frustration runs even deeper.

His own parents followed all the rules when they came to this country legally
two decades ago. His father immigrated first; his mother had to wait several
years to be reunited with her husband.

Immigration is a lengthy, tedious process, Srinivasan said, and it isn't fair
that many people who come to this country go through all the hurdles while
others evade them.

``If that system is being circumvented, that's less spots left for others,''
Srinivasan said. ``It just makes us angry that some people are trying to cut in
line.''

Contact Julie Sevrens Lyons at jlyons@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5989.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

views on illegal immigration

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


81%

Say illegal immigration to the United States is ``out of control''

79%

Say controlling U.S. borders to halt illegal immigrants is extremely or very
important61%

Say the U.S. should make illegal immigration

a crimeSource: USA Today/Gallup poll of 1,004 adults, conducted April 7-9,
margin of error +/- 3 percent

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

AMNESTY FOES RESPOND

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words


Watching massive marches across the country calling for a path to legalization
for undocumented immigrants, Roberta Allen felt her anger slowly rising.

``They have a lot of gall coming here and demanding rights that aren't theirs to
have,'' said Allen, 62, a San Jose small-business owner. ``I've no problem with
legal immigrants. It's illegal aliens I have a problem with.''

Allen refers to her point of view as ``the other side'' in the debate over
immigration reform. After ceding the spotlight in recent days and weeks to
immigrants' supporters, she and some of her fellow opponents are looking to a
series of counter-demonstrations to show their point of view.

These organizers say they represent the American mainstream, and polls suggest
that, in at least some of their arguments, they do. Most of those questioned in
several surveys over the last month say it should be a crime to enter the United
States and stay illegally. And 81 percent of respondents in a Gallup poll last
month agreed with one of the central tenets of the opposition: that illegal
immigration is ``out of control.''

But those same surveys also show that strong majorities of Americans favor
allowing illegal immigrants to remain in the United States if they meet certain
requirements. That's a place where at least the most vocal opponents beg to
differ.

Locally, they hope to make that point with ``National Anti-illegal Alien Protest
Rally Days'' at Central Park in Santa Clara on Friday and Saturday. The date was
chosen deliberately to coincide with Cinco de Mayo -- a Latino celebration.
Elsewhere, the Minuteman Project, a group of volunteers who patrol the
U.S.-Mexico border, plan to launch a 12-city caravan tour today, heading to
Washington, D.C., for a May 12 rally.

Opponents are also active on the Internet, with a number of newly created Web
sites. Although some of those sites veer toward racism, most make a simple,
law-and-order argument. America's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, they
say, are lawbreakers who should not be rewarded with a path to citizenship, but
instead should be deported.

Their concerns are many. Some call illegal immigrants a burden on schools and
hospitals. Others say they inordinately contribute to crime, including high
membership in prison and street gangs. Still others worry that illegal
immigrants take jobs away from, and lower the wages of, natives and legal
immigrants.

Some of the most extreme views can be seen on Web sites and heard on talk radio,
where undocumented immigrants are described as bringing diseases across the
border and threatening American culture by refusing to assimilate and living in
their own enclaves.

Some of these worries are widely shared. Last week's flap over a pop recording
of the national anthem in Spanish -- which included President Bush, generally
considered a moderate on immigration issues, among its detractors -- was a
potent example.

Kimberly Vigneault, 40, is a key organizer behind the upcoming protests that so
far have coordinators in 15 states including California. A personal story that
she tells on her Web site, www.illegalimmigrantprotest.com, offers an emotional
counterpoint to popular tales of the anguish of illegal immigrants, and has
resonated with many other activists.

Vigneault says she was infected with tuberculosis by an undocumented immigrant
in a Riverside County Hospital. Hospital officials later acknowledged that an
infected employee may indeed have exposed hundreds of patients to disease,
although they never confirmed the employee was an illegal immigrant.

The experience energized Vigneault, after years in which she had worried about
the growing numbers of ``illegals in my daughter's school'' who don't speak
English, and the uninsured ones who use public medical services.

A month ago, she launched her movement with a Web site that provides a gateway
to a number of other opposition Web sites, including the site of the Minuteman
Project. The range of the Internet quickly helped her forge connections with
like-minded people elsewhere.

Still, Vigneault strives to keep a measured tone. ``I just hope that everybody
keeps a cool head during our protest,'' Vigneault said. ``I want people to know
of the other side of this issue, that people aren't willing to be pushed over.''

Amid marches and boycotts aimed at demonstrating immigrants' contribution to
America's economy, many opponents of illegal immigration hope to make a contrary
point: That many of these undocumented workers are a burden on society.

They cite studies of the impact of illegal immigrants on U.S. hospital emergency
rooms and social service programs -- studies that suggest these immigrants cost
more in government services than they pay in taxes, especially if you figure in
the cost of public schools.

However, some of those same studies note that this imbalance is typical of all
low-income families, regardless of their immigration status. ``In all of this,''
said Reshma Shamasunder, director of the California Immigrant Welfare
Collaborative, ``immigrants keep getting scapegoated.''

But even some who have great sympathy for immigrants worry about the impact of
illegal immigration.

``The protests were wrong,'' said Nelson De Sousa, 35, of San Jose, a son of
Portuguese immigrants who owns a small housecleaning business. ``There's a right
way to do things, and they've come here illegally. They're not respecting what
our country's values are, what we're about.''

De Sousa said he has hired Latino immigrants but only after checking their
driver's licenses. He believes in better regulation of employers when they hire
immigrants.

Randy Breunling, 50, a software and data engineer in Sunnyvale, said the waving
of Mexican flags at the protests provoked ``some anger and frustration.''

``I'm proud of what America stands for, even though we have problems,'' he said.
``If they're out there protesting for rights they don't have, why are they
flying the Mexican flag? What message does that give me as an American?''

Breunling says it isn't feasible for the government to round up and deport
nearly 12 million people, ``but it wouldn't hurt if we took some action to send
some back. Just as it wouldn't hurt to take action against employers here who
employ them.''

Pamela Stone of San Jose, a retired administrative assistant in her 60s, said
she will attend the opposition rally.

``I didn't like amnesty when we gave it in 1986,'' she said, referring to
20-year old immigration reforms that led to legalization of three million
illegal immigrants. ``The Senate then promised they'd never do this again. All
this does is bring more of them in and make America look like an idiot.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Chung: Civil dialogue all too rare on immigration

BYLINE: L.A. Chung, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words


Dave from Campbell really wants to be heard.

We are sitting over coffee in the Orchard Valley Coffeehouse in downtown
Campbell. He has a small notebook with a neat list of concerns about illegal
immigration for us to discuss. It's the same list of points he tried to make one
night on a call-in talk radio program before he was cut off. That still smarts.

``If you see that Bernie Ward,'' says Dave, referring to the late-night KGO
radio talk show host and my old acquaintance, ``Tell him that Dave-in-Campbell
is not a racist.''

Dave in Campbell is a good, thoughtful man, and that doesn't change because he
has concerns about illegal immigration. We met because he wanted to have an
intelligent dialogue with someone on a different side of the most burning issue
of the day. Someone who won't hang up on him.

So here we are -- talking and listening to each other.

Semantics and substance

Dave first proposes a term to use during this conversation free of the current
rhetorical baggage that ``illegal immigrants'' and ``undocumented immigrants''
have acquired.

Dave suggests ``uncontrolled immigration.'' He believes, ``People wouldn't be
feeling hurt, yet it's accurate. Our country can't tell us how many people come
over the border, which means it's uncontrolled.'' Sure. I appreciate the
gesture.

His list covers a range of concerns: fairness to other immigrants, ineligibility
for military service, tuberculosis cases, pressures on health services, scarcity
of water, criminal elements and the inability of illegal immigrants to get
access to the Social Security system they've paid into.

``I lay the blame for this entire problem on the politicians here,'' he said.
``And on the government in Mexico.''

Now there's sane ground for both of us.

I grew up surrounded by Daves, actually. Dave is Old Valley. They were the big
brothers of my generation. While we were still playing kick-the-can next to the
orchard on the block, they were the older guys just starting families. He was
born in San Jose, part of the first class of Camden High School. He picked
apricots and prunes, changed irrigation sprinkler pipes and attended San Jose
City College.

Employment struggles

He's a blue-collar guy whose first apprenticeship led to ``the best job I ever
had,'' at Stanford University Press, setting type for its professors' books and
the Stanford Daily. Then those jobs went to Hong Kong in 1976. Long before
dot-com flame-outs, Dave's frame of reference for the ebb and flow of the
valley's fortunes came from memories of the aerospace downturn, when outsourcing
wasn't even a buzz word.

He went back to San Jose State University to retool because he couldn't find a
job anywhere. In his searches, he said, he was bumping up against affirmative
action goals. His minority classmates didn't seem to have any empathy for him,
he recalled, perturbed. Eventually he did find work. He retired in 2002. He's
now 66.

Since then, he's known in Campbell for raising money for the city to buy 18 flag
poles and American flags to fly on major holidays, a 2 1/2-year campaign that
included head-butting with city officials.

Dave doesn't think that honest concern over illegal immigration and the desire
to control immigration should be viewed through racial lenses. He doesn't feel
that way. Having picked prunes, he knows farm work is hard work, and field crops
even more so. Odd jobs in landscaping and construction are, too.

The Thursday before Easter, he and his wife decided to assemble 60 bag lunches,
each containing a bologna sandwich, an Easter egg, a bag of chips, cookies and
$1 bills. They gave them away to the men who wait for day labor jobs near Home
Depot in Campbell.

``They were very nice,'' said his wife, Pamela, pausing in her knitting. ``We
don't have bad feelings about them.'' She ignores her husband and calls them
``illegals.''

Each year Dave and Pamela travel, frequently to Mexico, but also to Chile, Peru,
Ecuador, as well as Europe. They choose to walk down back streets to explore.
``Travel broadens your view,'' she said.

So does Silicon Valley. ``You can't be here without having neighbors, friends,
co-workers from a different country,'' Dave said. ``It didn't used to be that
way.'' His and Pam's ancestries were German, Danish and English, and he grew up
with Italians and Yugoslavs in the valley. ``I don't consider them different
from our Korean and Egyptian neighbors,'' he said. But Dave worries. About
scarcities. About hospital closures. About crime.

He has read widely, listened to a lot of cable programs. None of them,
apparently, have analyzed the impact of larger economic forces such as the North
American Free Trade Agreement, or the historical context of our relationship
with Mexico, which seems to be the only focus of the discussion (I learn later,
that Asians comprise an estimated 180,000 illegal immigrants in the Bay Area,
for example).

When his time at the parking space is up, we shake hands. We know we don't see
eye to eye on many things. It's a complex and layered issue that needs serious,
dedicated work by lawmakers and politicians thinking of everyone's good, we
agree. Past the posturing, past the talk show histrionics, comprehensive reform
has got to be out there.

``I've gotten so discouraged about democracy,'' Dave said.

Yeah. Me, too.

Contact L.A. Chung at lchung@mercurynews.com or call (408)920-5280

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday

Civilian border patrol starts caravan

BYLINE: Peter Prengaman, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 425 words


Leaders of the Minuteman Project began a cross-country trek Wednesday amid
screaming matches about whether illegal immigrants are taking jobs from blacks
or should be embraced as fellow minorities looking for a better life.

The caravan to Capitol Hill departed from a park in a heavily black Los Angeles
neighborhood as part of a push by the civilian border patrol group to attract
more blacks as members.

``If we are going to be giving preference to anybody . . . preference should go
to the American-African community that has suffered more than anybody,''
Minuteman founder Jim Gilchrist told a crowd of 40 supporters that included
about 10 blacks.

Gilchrist had to yell the remarks over a dozen mostly black protesters who
chanted ``Minutemen go home!'' and ``KKK go home!''

Gilchrist repeatedly stopped his speech to address the protesters, telling them,
``Ours is not a racial cause. It's a rule-of-law cause.''

As Gilchrist spoke, supporters and opponents engaged in a heated debate.

``Hispanics are taking away our jobs,'' said Angela Broussard, 38, a black
playwright. ``They are moving into our neighborhoods, so now where are we going
to go?''

Morris Griffin held a sign rejecting a measure passed by the House that would
make it a felony to be in this country illegally and penalize people who aid
undocumented immigrants.

``Don't pit the blacks against the browns, like they do in the jails and
schools,'' Griffin told Broussard.

When the chants and arguments persisted, Gilchrist stepped up his rhetoric
toward someone urging the group to go home.

``Minutemen, stand your ground,'' he said. ``Do not fire unless fired upon. And
if it's a war he wants, then let it begin here.''

Gilchrist then boarded an RV with ``Minnie'' written across the side in small
blue letters that was followed from the park by two other RVs and a few cars.

Organizers hoped the Los Angeles to Washington, D.C., trip will help counter
marches staged around the nation Monday by more than 1 million people demanding
amnesty for some 11 million illegal immigrants.

The Minuteman Project wants to garner support for its get-tough border stance
and pressure federal lawmakers considering immigration reform. They also intend
to mobilize voters and recruit members along the way.

According to the Minutemen Web site, the caravan is scheduled to stop in
President Bush's vacation haven of Crawford, Texas, as well as Phoenix;
Albuquerque, N.M.; Abilene, Texas; Little Rock, Ark.; Memphis and Nashville,
Tenn.; Birmingham, Ala.; Atlanta; Richmond, Va.; Greensboro, N.C.; and
Washington.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2761 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

The illegal immigration problem has become a finger pointing exercise.

The popular culprits are the businesses that hire illegals. Now politicians want
to penalize landlords for providing housing to illegals. Both are characterized
as greedy opportunists that reap huge profits from the sweat of the illegals.

But cities aren't punished for creating Sanctuary Cities and ignoring
immigration laws. Banks aren't punished for making loans and making money
transfers for the illegals. It is also common knowledge that illegals have
overloaded our schools and hospitals yet there is no threat of punishment for
them.

Why are cities, banks, schools, and hospitals immune from any criticism or
punishment for the illegal immigrant problem and only businesses and landlords
are the targets for punishment? It appears that these entities are too powerful
and politically connected to be punished. Until there is uniform responsibility
and punishment, the illegal immigration problem will not be solved.

Jack Ward, Santa Cruz

I am appalled at the outright lies and distortions being made in his TV ads,l by
one of the Democats running for Governor. As for the shortchanging of the
children and the schools, here is the truth. The Governor has increased the
funding both years he has been in office and now California invests $10,000 on
each pupil. The building of classrooms has increased and is now $2.6 billion and
7,539 new classrooms for 188,341 students.

Governor Schwarzenegger coontinued to promote the well-being of the youngest
Californians by banning sugary soft drinks and offering more fruits and
vegetables in school cafeterias, plus more after-school physical fitness
activities.

Training for much-needed nurses was expanded with a $124 million boost.

He also stopped the increase in fees for tuition to community colleges, to keep
them the LOWEST IN THE NATION.

Even before Katrina, he secured $40.9 million for levee and flood-control work.
The Governor allocated Homeland Security funds to strengthen security at eleven
key California ports. There are many more improvements and rebuilding programs
the Governor has championed.

Tell the truth, Democrat candidates!

A.C.G.Taylor, San Jose

John Dutra, a multi-millionaire real estate developer, wants to serve as State
Senator for Senate District 10 which covers Southern Alameda County and part of
San Jose. Dutra was a leader of the so-called "Business" Democrats in the
Assembly. These Democrats abstain on bills that aide homeowners, the environment
or working people if big business objects. To advance, bills in Sacramento must
receive majority support from all committee members, not just those present when
roll is called.

For example, following the devastating fires in San Diego, survivors testified
before Dutra and the Assembly Insurance Committee that their homeowner policies
were not renewed after they filed a claim. Senate Bill 1474 would have stopped
the insurance industry's abusive "use it and lose it" practice.

In June 2004, six committee members voted "yes," three "no," yet the bill failed
because eight members, including Dutra, refused to vote. If a major earthquake
strikes the Bay Area, we will wish SB 1474 was the law.

Given his record, it should come as no surprise that corporate America wants
Dutra elected. ExxonMobil, British Petroleum, ConocoPhillips, the Association of
California Insurance Companies, State Farm, Monsanto and Blue Cross HMO have
each donated to Dutra's campaign.

Stephen Cassidy, San Leando

I read with interest Mr Howard Sosbee's sarcastic May 5th letter. In that letter
he states that "Jesus of Nazareth was a consummate liberal." I have read the New
Testament (which I'm sure Ms. Coulter has) several times over and I have issues
with this statement. According to the New Testament: First, Jesus IS (not was) -
Second, Jesus said that He came to fulfill the law which includes the
politically incorrect, "Thou shalt not commit adultery," which he took one step
further, saying, "If you lust, you have committed adultery in your heart." -
Third, he preached absolutes- "I am the way, the truth and the life." Jesus is
NOT a liberal. I challenge the Mercury News to publish this point of view.

Isaac William, Santa Clara

A friend of mine once related that on a visit to his parent's home in South
America, childhood friends remarked how easy it was to exploit and manipulate
American businessmen. My friend, who had spent considerable time in California
while attending Santa Clara University and Stanford, agreed. He said Americans
are by nature trusting, honest, and typically believe they are dealing with
likeminded honorable people.

My friend's response was backhanded recognition of the corruption that pervades
his former country. He also encapsulates the binding nature of a national
cultural perspective. It is our cultural perspective - all men created equal, a
nation of laws, unbounded opportunity for all, etc.-- and our ability to
communicate with a commoon language and symbology that defines and binds us as
Americans.

I dispute the idea that culture and language do not matter when it comes to
establishing citizenship. It is ludicrous to assume that anyone making their way
to the United States is automatically a citizen. We are Americans by birth or
naturalization and because we embrace a common cultural perspective. The
definition of ethical behavior, citizen-to-government relationship,
social/community obligations, and the ability to communicate via a common
language can all be traced to the cultural vision of our great nation's founding
fathers. Romantically naive notions of borderless frontiers and world
citizenship attempt to diminish the importance of our cultural heritage.

Eleuterio Vasquez, Saratoga

I am writing in response to the proposed immigration bill, HR 4437, which has
generated one of the largest protest movements in recent years. When masses of
the population express their concern in such a way, it is the government's
responsibility to carefully reexamine its proposition. In this case, the
proposition frames the problem and proposes solutions without what I consider an
accurate assessment of the issue. Instead of focusing on building literal walls
and cracking down with excessive punishment (seeking a living wage is on the
same level as rape and murder?), it makes sense to look at the reasons that
people risk so much to immigrate. The global economy makes it impossible for
them to attain a decent life in their home countries, and employers, especially
in the agriculture industry, often solicit cheap labor. If the United States is
working to make money flow freely across the world, it does not make sense to
halt the movement of people and isolate our country. Globalization needs to
occur in all areas, if it exists at all, so that inequity can right itself.
Fences and guns are merely temporary "solutions" - addressing the root causes of
this problem, such as exploitive outsourcing, NAFTA, and unsubsidized
Californian farm labor, would be a much more efficient way to use taxpayers'
resources. It would represent a step towards a sustainable, non-abusive world
economy; I hope we can be proactive and not merely defensive.

Andrea Ford, Berkeley

I have to respond to Jacquie Heffner's letter of 4-4-06 about implicit racism in
the immigration furor.

I have so many mixed feelings about this issue. First and foremost, I am a labor
and delivery nurse, and I have always loved my Latina patients. They are so
strong and appreciative. They have always given me so much more than I have
given them.

But I also can appreciate that the poor and lower class citizens of this country
who have had their wages held down by an influx of immigrants who are in this
country illegally.

I can sympathize with people who spend years and decades of their lives waiting
to immigrate, legally, to this country, who become embittered by people who
think that if they just "jump the line" they are now entitled.

There are no easy answers in this debate. But what I know to be true is that we
need to stop calling people names, and we need to start talking about what is
best for this country, and what is best for our world. People who want to be a
part of the U.S.A. shouldn't be waving Mexican flags. And people who are already
citizens of this country should remember that we are ALL immigrants or their
descendants. We are a strong and adaptable country because we are the sum of our
parts and we are open to diverse points of view. We look over what is out there,
and adopt what is good and works. That is why the USA succeeds in our world.

Our weakness is that we tend to be lazy and seek easy answers. Let's use our
strengths and assets, not our weaknesses, and come up with solutions to the
issue of illegal immigration.

Andrea Lorraine Puck, Santa Clara

If the San Jose Police Department is not willing (or able) to take an active
role in the safety of our community, Willow Glen will become a haven for those
nefarious people that make such places a den of thieves. During the last two
years I have had numerous conversations with my neighbors about the sad response
we have received from the police department when we have called 911 regarding
suspicious people lurking in, or around our parking lots and homes.

The response I personally have received has been all over the board, running
from being put through to an answering machine, to, we can't respond because
those people will be gone by the time we get there and my favorite is, we can't
respond to your car being broken into, please fill out a report on our website.
They can't respond to our needs, yet they have no problem making me drive around
the block fifty times while I wait for my child to get out of school because
there are "no parking" zones across the street from the school.

In our part of Willow Glen, the crime has escalated from cars being broken into,
to cars being stolen. When we have complained to the appropriate police
authorities, they conveniently can't find any record of our 911 calls, then tell
us that there is nothing they can do. We have also been told that our part of
Willow Glen is such a low priority that this is where they train all of their
new officers.

After two years, and after having at least forty conversations with the San Jose
Police Department, we have resorted to taking this issue to Ken Yeager of the
City Council and even that has led to nothing but lip service from his office.
His assistant Mr. Tony Filice, has been really good about returning E-Mails but
we have yet to hear from Ken Yeager about anything other than his monthly
bulletins which addresses his pet projects. It would seem that Mr. Yeager is
more interested in the library and garden projects than the safety of those in
Willow Glen. Now it has come to my attention that Mr. Yeager is running for
County Supervisor. If Mr. Yeager isn't capable of taking action at the Willow
Glen level, then how will he be able to do it at the county level?

We have also learned that Beat Cops are only on a particular beat for six months
at a time. Six months is far from an adequate amount of time for anyone to
become familiar with the neighborhood, businesses, traffic or any other issue
that make up the corners of any community. Six months is not only unfair to the
officer in question, it is an unreasonable amount of time for the community to
bond with, or learn to trust that officer. Do the powers that be not know that
bonding with the community is an invaluable tool in stopping crime before it
starts? Beat cops should not be on a beat for months, they should be on a beat
for years.

Does Willow Glen need to became an out of control crime area before the San Jose
Police Department will be willing to step up to the plate and take an active
interest in the safety of our community? I hope not.

Terri Youngs, San Jose

Professor Hanson's article on religion's role in the 21st century provides many
conclusions on the importance of religion in the past century, but no examples
(Perspective, April 30). And he is just plain wrong on this fact. The professor
claims that the secular nature of universities is keeping college students from
the religious studies that will prepare them for effective leadership. On the
contrary, there has been a double digit increase in religious studies, religious
majors, and religious offerings by public universities across the nation. The
diversity of offerings across all religious studies programs are unprecedented
in scope. Universities scramble to find qualified instructors, the demand is so
great today. And our public universities are able to meet this need, not in
spite of being secular, but because they are secular. I think the professor is
really not interested in religious awareness and understanding per se, but
religious practice and the demise of secularism. And once public education, at
any level, crosses from intellectual study to specific practice we can lose the
diversity of thought needed for understanding the complexity of the 21st
century.

Chris Jones, San Jose

Regarding Eddie Garcia's view on immigration, Freedom and Opportunity-Not
language, define American values, 5-5-6, and his opinion that the American
populace is fixated on the notion that immigration dilutes American culture and
values, I would respond that I think the American culture heartily embraces the
contributions of immigrants. The added ingredient of every culture adds to that
proverbial American pie.

What seems to hamper meaningul discussion is actually though when you want a
piece of that pie, you need to know the language and social customs in which to
ask for that piece of pie. To presume the server understands a thousand
languages is pretty unrealistic.

It's important to know and understand English when in the U.S. and respect and
know the laws of the land before you're in court having to use an interpreter,
at the DMV trying to take a driving exam or trying to be part of our
governmental system in any regard.

The official language of the U.S. is English. It's an important part of what
binds us as a thriving and functional society. When the Declaration of
Independence and the Bill of Rights were written, they were written in English
only. Our forefathers might have assumed if you can read and understand these
documents as they are written, you should be granted these basic rights.

The laws and social mores of American culture are important to understand in
order to really appreciate the freedoms and opportunities this country provides.

Kim Thorpe, Campbell

I hope that voters are taking note of this headline article and remember those
nine Council Members, esp. those running now for mayor, that voted for the City
Hall- and against the will of the people (esp.those in need). Only two members,
one now running for mayor, stood up for the rational position of the people.
Then, the Council voting went similarly when even lower cost ($150 million)
alternatives were proposed. Where were (and are) our priorities?

Our San Jose "Taj Mahal" (by one member) was going to, actually, make money by
tourism (by another member) Others felt that City Hall would contribute to the
needed civic pride. Well, where are the tourists, the revenues, and all of this
enhanced civic pride? Meanwhile, many of our city programs, in progress or
planned, have had to be slighted or eliminated. What a price we have paid and,
are still paying!

Were some Council leaders, simply, overcome by the political opportunity of such
a grandiose idea - perhaps, hidden in false civic pride? Did such enthusiasm
mislead other more gullible members - who, simply, "bought into" the arguments?
Were there Council Members, even beyond the Mayor, who were too blinded by
political ambitions to see the economic factors and/or to listen to logic of
common people? Were these members unable to make tradeoffs between needs & wants
for San Jose?

And, such logic and issues are not just behind us! The arguments for sports
stadiums are following the same course. Are we ready to again support such
outlays - to such as, specifically, baseball owners? Does this "sport" (really
just big business) need deca-millions of dollars in handouts that cater to
special interests rather than the majority of us? Our tax base, rather, needs to
be in our core industries which, also, supplies jobs - not just fans! There is
more "bang for our buck" in supporting the latter. We voters must seriously
consider what kind of leadership that we want for San Jose.

Don Jones, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Immigrants march in S. America, too

BYLINE: Shayna Chabner, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 483 words


Thousands of immigrants marched through the streets, waving flags and chanting
slogans demanding more rights for undocumented foreigners. ``We are just
workers,'' they yelled.

This wasn't Los Angeles, Chicago or Atlanta. It was Buenos Aires, home to
hundreds of thousands of Bolivians, many of them undocumented, who slipped
across the border from South America's poorest country to find work in a richer
country next door.

Weeks before pro-migrant marches in the streets of U.S. cities, Bolivians
demonstrated in Argentina's capital last month to demand better pay, working
conditions and social services after a fire in a textile factory killed six
Bolivians.

In the United States, lawmakers are debating the fate of the country's 11
million illegal immigrants. But Argentina quickly implemented a plan to improve
conditions and legalize within months tens of thousands of the 750,000 illegal
immigrants from Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru.

Brazil, facing similar problems, is implementing a similar solution. It is
offering an amnesty for Bolivians who entered the country before August 2005,
giving them a chance to become permanent residents.

Argentina's plan would extend to migrants most rights enjoyed by Argentine
citizens, while reducing black-market labor and registering all migrants.
Several thousand undocumented immigrants have lined up to begin the legalization
process, which will give them better job security, pay and access to social
services.

Lawmakers approved the plan late last year, but put implementation on a fast
track after the factory deaths.

``Argentina is a land of good will, and we want those who come here to work to
feel like they're . . . helping to build this country and this region into what
we dream it could be,'' President Nestor Kirchner told lawmakers.

Once workers meet identification requirements, they are granted two-year
residency cards and gain access to the same public services as Argentines. After
three years, they can seek permanent residency.

Bolivian migrants praised the Brazilian plan as well. Jorge Meruvia, a former
garment worker and a leader of the Bolivian community in São Paulo, described
the poorly paid work as a right of passage for generations of migrants to
Brazil.

``On a Friday, I would start at 7 in the morning and work all day. At midnight I
wouldn't stop -- I'd keep working. Saturday I'd work all day, without
sleeping,'' he said. ``But I made a lot of money.''

Compared with the fiery debate on immigration in the United States, disagreement
in South America is quite polite.

Eduardo Gamarra, a Bolivian who directs the Latin America and Caribbean Center
at Florida International University in Miami, said cultural and political
affinities among left-leaning governments in South America have contributed to
the conciliatory approach.

``Kirchner does not want to appear as the guy who is whipping and sending back
Bolivians,'' Gamarra said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Amnesty foes raise their voices

BYLINE: Julie Patel, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words


Waving American flags and attracting supportive honks and derisive jeers from
passersby, Bay Area residents who stood on the edge of Santa Clara's Central
Park on Friday said their voices had also been pushed to the fringe in the
debate over illegal immigration.

``I'm just a worker, and I deserve the right to voice my opinion and to be
heard,'' said Elizabeth Hernanadez, an electrician whose great-grandparents
emigrated from Mexico. ``I understand people want to have a better life, but
they should do it the right way and understand that we are struggling, too, to
pay all these taxes to support them.''

About 100 opponents of amnesty for illegal immigrants rallied on Cinco de Mayo
along Kiely Boulevard in a corner of the park blocked off with yellow police
tape. The demonstration -- part of the weekend-long ``National Anti-Illegal
Alien Protest Rally Days'' -- was fairly quiet, but occasional arguments broke
out between protesters and immigrant-rights supporters who held a counterprotest
nearby.

As federal lawmakers continue to debate legislative proposals that may legalize
or punish the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants now in the United States,
marches and demonstrations supporting immigrant workers have drawn hundreds of
thousands across the country.

Most protesters in San Jose on Friday said they were not against immigration,
but against illegal immigration because they feel it is stressing the country's
health care, education and welfare programs. Until now, they said, they had
aired their views at dinner tables and with trusted friends. As they made their
views public, they elicited a mix of wild support, anger and discomfort from
drivers, families at the park and teenagers walking home from school.

Santa Clara resident Astro ``Al'' Tortolano, a World War II veteran, approached
the immigrant-rights advocates and said they should respect U.S. laws or go back
to Mexico.

``This is Mexico!'' retorted Quetzaoceloaciua, of the Barrio Defense Committee
of San Jose. ``Your people came over to our continent.''

``I think you're sadly mistaken,'' Tortolano said, as a crowd formed around
them.

``This is our ancestral land,'' she continued, as they spoke over each other.

``We would embrace you with open arms if you came legally,'' he said and started
to walk away as their argument started to repeat.

Throughout the four-hour event, drivers slowed down to check out the block-long
blur of red, white and blue. A car full of teenagers drove past several times
waving a Mexican flag and shouting, ``God Bless America.''

The park was decked out with dozens of flags and hand-drawn posters that read
``Got papers?'' and ``Fix your own country before you trash ours.''

Carrying Mexican and American flags and a sign that said ``Racism divides
America,'' San Jose resident David Ledesma argued with a few other veterans he
knew who were at the protest to oppose illegal immigration. Ledesma called the
attacks on illegal workers ``selective criminalization.''

``If all they cared about was people breaking the law, they'd go after the
employers, too. That's how you know it's racism,'' Ledesma said, as he looked
for his brother's name engraved on one of the bricks at Veterans Memorial at
Central Park. Ledesma was 13 when his brother died at age 20 in the Vietnam War.

For Clinton Richert, his opposition to illegal immigrants comes down to
employment. Richert, 25, has been unemployed for seven months. He quit his job
as a construction worker building fences because he could no longer take the
intensive labor: carrying fencing equipment weighing up to 150 pounds on his
shoulders. He said the $12 an hour pay wasn't enough for him to buy health
insurance and he had been on a carpentry union waiting list for three years. He
said he has applied for about a dozen jobs -- in construction and at companies
like Home Depot and Costco -- but keeps getting turned down.

``Illegal immigrants are willing to take on the lowest-paid jobs and some of us
here are trying to pay for our condos and apartments and can't afford to do
that,'' Richert said.

Anti-amnesty protests will be held again today from noon to 4 p.m.

Contact Julie Patel at jpatel@mercurynews.com or (408) 271-3679.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

House bill author says several nations harsher than U.S. on illegal immigration

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words


Defending his House-passed immigration bill that sparked street protests by
millions of immigrants, the chair of the House Judiciary Committee issued a
report Friday showing that several countries are harsher than the United Stated
in their treatment of illegal immigrants and their employers.

The Law Library of Congress study of immigration laws in six countries found
that all but Brazil have criminal penalties for illegal entry and presence
within their borders.

In four of the countries -- Japan, Switzerland, Sweden and Egypt -- employers
can be jailed for months or even years for hiring illegal immigrants.

``With all the blustery rhetoric coming from opponents about a `harsh' and
`draconian' House bill . . . I note that five out of the six countries studied
-- including Mexico -- make illegal entry and unlawful presence a criminal
offense,'' said Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis.

The House bill, written largely by Sensenbrenner, would make being in the
country illegally a felony. It already is a misdemeanor to enter the country
illegally, and re-entering the country after being deported also is a crime.

Illegal presence in the United States is now a civil offense.

After street protests and demonstrations last month, House Speaker Dennis
Hastert, R-Ill., and Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., pledged that illegal
immigrants would not be prosecuted as felons in a final House-Senate version of
the bill if it gets that far.

A bill considered by the Senate last month did not include criminalizing being
in the United States illegally. Instead, it would have allowed many of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants to remain, work and eventually become
legal residents after paying fines and back taxes and learning English.

The Senate bill faltered just before Easter but leaders in both parties have
said they would bring it up again this month.

The Law Library study found that prison sentences for being in the country
illegally ranged from up to three months in Egypt to up to three years in Japan.
Employers were most severely punished in Japan, facing up to three years in
prison for hiring undocumented workers.

Sensenbrenner said the six countries studied were chosen to provide racial and
geographic diversity.

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute at New York
University School of Law, complained that Sensenbrenner's study didn't look at
the resources the six countries devoted to enforcing their immigration laws.

``I don't know what lesson one could draw from them,'' he said, adding that U.S.
spending on border enforcement has increased fivefold since 1986 and personnel
devoted to it has more than tripled. Chishti's institute supports guest-worker
programs for immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

In the land of militias and Minutemen, some ranchers look for middle ground

BYLINE: Pauline Arrillaga, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1532 words


Bud Strom knows darn well how outsiders have pegged ranchers like him, those
whose land serves as America's front porch to illegal immigration.

When reporters flock in from their big-city offices, they want to know:

Is he packing heat? Can they get the pistol on camera? (Even if it's loaded with
snake shot meant for vermin.) Then, when he answers ``no'' to the second
question, they ask: Isn't he ticked off about all the ``illegals'' traipsing
through his brush?

The answer to that one: Well, yes and no.

Along the same stretch of border where Strom raises cattle, father and son
ranchers Jack and John Ladd have played host to politicians promising a
get-tough approach to immigration. The Ladds show them piles of clothes and
water jugs left on their land, the gaping holes slashed in their fences. But
talk of a wall, or any so-called ``enforcement-only'' solution, is flat-out
absurd, the ranchers say.

Then there's Paul Palmer. Feedlot operator. Dyed-in-the-wool Republican. A good
Baptist. ``Papa'' to the grandson he keeps watch on while sorting cattle. And,
oh yeah, he supposes ``criminal'' is fitting, too.

For years, Palmer employed illegal farmhands until their fear of working in a
region swarming with Border Patrol agents drove them elsewhere. Now he'll preach
to anyone who will listen that America needs to legalize its illegal workforce.

``I'm conservative right down to the bone,'' he says, ``but I think that
sometimes we have to do the right thing.''

These fellows don't just talk about illegal immigration, they live it by making
their homes in the heart of the nation's busiest illegal crossing corridor, the
mesas of southern Arizona. They own the land that gets trampled, feed their
families and grandkids from the money they eke out of it. And they'll endure the
repercussions of whatever Congress does or does not devise to rectify the
problem.

They don't care for outright amnesty; the recent immigrant marches make their
stomachs turn.

They also don't want immigrants branded felons, rounded up and shipped out, and
insist a sealed-off border isn't the answer, either.

But they do have a message:

In a debate often argued in extremes -- even here, in the land of militias and
Minutemen -- there's a middle ground to be found.

County in the cross-fire

A few statistics about Cochise County, Ariz.:

Residents: 117,755. Non-residents caught crossing illegally since October:
52,885. Border Patrol agents who do the catching: 750.

Strom's ranch, the Single Star, is sandwiched between Mexico and state Route 92,
a good two-hour drive southeast of Tucson. He figures hundreds of immigrants a
week make the three-mile trek from the border to the highway, through his
straw-tinted grasses, past the cattle nursing their calves, under the tower that
operates four Border Patrol cameras.

At 74, Strom still struts with the commanding presence of a career Army man.
(The ranch name alludes to his rank of brigadier general, retired.) He calls
himself a moderate conservative -- he can't stand Sen. Edward Kennedy, ``and
some of the Republicans I can't stand, either.'' A bumper sticker inside his
bunkhouse reads, ``To Hell With the Whales, Save the Cowboy.''

Strom takes a gulp of tea, then enumerates his inventory of immigration stories.

He stops, rises and disappears for a moment, returning with a tiny sandal,
perhaps big enough for a 3-year-old. Its flowered embroidery is smudged with
dirt. ``I have this,'' he says, setting the lonely shoe down. ``And then wedding
pictures. Birth certificates.''

His fences have been cut but also run over, usually by drug couriers fleeing
U.S. authorities by heading back into Mexico.

He fears his cows will eat a plastic water bottle and tear up their insides;
he's got one lying in agony at this very moment, sick from he doesn't know what.
``She's blind. She's not eating.''

All of this, Strom accepts. It's what he signed up for when he signed on as a
rancher on the Arizona-Mexico border 16 years ago. Illegal immigration isn't
unlike his constant struggle with drought -- sometimes eased but never ended.

Still, he wonders if this problem could be solved, if only the politicians would
``stop bickering.''

``I'm violently against amnesty, but I do think there's got to be a process
worked out because the growers and the pickers in our country have got to have
help,'' he says. ``I would like very much to go down to Naco and get a team of
workers who can legally come across . . . and have them rebuild some of my adobe
walls.''

But walling-off the border, as the U.S. House proposes in its immigration bill,
reminds him of Berlin during his Army days.

``No,'' says Strom, ``I don't want that. . . . It just doesn't seem like a very
American thing to do. My wife's family initially settled this ranch in 1896.''

Cattle ranch on the border

In Palominas, Ariz., Jack Ladd is rocking in a plush recliner next to the
picture window that frames the San José Mountains a few miles south in Sonora,
Mexico. He is 79, with hearing aids in both ears, a mild voice, gentle blue
eyes. Each word is chosen carefully, because Ladd is nothing if not a thoughtful
man. He spent years as director of labor relations for Phelps Dodge Mining. He
knows a bit about compromise.

He holds a pile of papers -- six 8 1/2-by-11 pages of single-spaced, neatly
scribed reflections on illegal immigration and what might curb the problem and
help bring some peace to his final years on the family cattle ranch.

He has titled this, ``Jack Ladd Observations.'' It describes the three groups of
15 to 20 migrants he saw crossing his ranch in broad daylight not long ago. ``I
dread the flood of illegals that would result if amnesty was actually granted,''
he writes. But he also bemoans as ``just for show'' politicians' proposals for
more walls, more lights, more agents. ``They are not the answer,'' he says.

Nor is any absolute ban on the employment and presence of illegal workers in the
United States, he says. ``I don't believe this is realistic, possible or
humane.''

So Ladd's answer goes something like this:

Establish a system to register and identify illegal workers.

Provide such workers with counterfeit-proof IDs.

If employers need additional workers, put in an order with the immigration
service, which could allow the required number in.

Expedite citizenship for those now waiting and allow illegal residents to apply,
but consider them only after those already in line.

``That's dreaming, I'm sure,'' he concludes. ``But that's the way it could
work.''

His son John is more irritated by the issue. Pro-migrant rallies incense him
because he believes some Latinos are looking to ``take back'' the Southwest.

Nevertheless, the 50-year-old son agrees with his father on the need for a
worker program and a mechanism to expedite the citizenship process. ``Anybody
that doesn't believe we need workers coming in is an idiot,'' he says.

Though it pains him, he also agrees with Arizona's Democratic governor, Janet
Napolitano, that walls and fences won't solve anything. The Ladd ranch has a
wall, a few hundred feet of steel barricading a small slice of border.

``Show me a 50-foot wall,'' he says, ``and I'll show you a 55-foot ladder.''

Too few farmhands

Paul Palmer never imagined that ranchers living at the border's edge might see
things his way.

His property is 40 miles north, so the foot traffic, trash and cut fences are
more sporadic than what Strom and the Ladds are used to. If the stream were
non-stop, he'd be so mad he couldn't think straight. He felt like that years
back when he put 27 splices in a half-mile of fence immigrants severed.

``I was about to shoot every one of them myself,'' he says.

He's since changed his tune -- because Palmer doesn't just live with the effects
of immigration, he needs immigrants to live.

He grows corn silage and alfalfa and runs a feed lot on 360 acres in Cochise
County. He does this, nowadays, with the help of his wife, Ann, and his
3-year-old grandson, Colten, who on this morning is running to alert Grandma Ann
that Papa Paul might need help getting cattle out of a pen.

``I can't get the kind of help I need without getting guys out of old Mexico,''
says Palmer, 52. ``I keep hearing all this whining about these guys taking jobs,
but I haven't had anyone come looking for work.''

He could use about three of what he calls ``documentally challenged'' laborers.
He's got fences and equipment needing maintenance, painting to be done.

Certainly, not everyone agrees with him. In Cochise County, home to a chapter of
the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, some ranchers scout for illegal crossers with
infrared goggles or hold immigrants at gunpoint until the Border Patrol shows
up.

Resident Dave Stoddard, a retired Border Patrol agent, believes employers like
Palmer don't want to pay what it takes to hire American workers. Those touting a
guest-worker program ``already have a supply of workers available if they would
pay more, give better benefits and working conditions,'' he said in an e-mail.

Palmer says, ``I'm a patriot, and I'm ready to whup anybody that means harm to
this country. But we've got to look at this thing realistically. I'm not usually
a middle-of-the-road guy. But surely there's something in the middle.''

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Asian illegal immigrants keep low profile in debate;
THEY FEAR SOCIAL STIGMA, SAY ISSUE IS `ABOUT MEXICANS'

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words


Eddy, a now 35-year-old Filipino immigrant who arrived in San Jose on a tourist
visa in 1998 and never left, hasn't paid much attention to the immigration
debate that's gripped America in recent months.

``It's about Mexicans,'' he said.

Like Eddy, most other Asians in America also haven't shown up for immigration
protests or joined the debate. The reasons are complex: the invisibility of
undocumented Asians; a framing of the debate that largely focuses on the Mexican
border; the difficulty of mobilizing a diverse community with multiple languages
and varied immigrant experiences.

But whether or not they join the debate, Asian immigrants and Asian-Americans
stand to be greatly affected by the proposed legislation now making its way
through Congress. Some proposals would create a path to citizenship for an
estimated 1 million undocumented Asians while others would criminalize them, or
curb the protections of those who are legal residents or U.S. citizens.

Asians ``are in a very dangerous place right now,'' said Traci Hong of the Asian
American Justice Center in Washington, D.C. ``There are great opportunities for
tremendous gains and great potential dangers to our due process and civil
liberties.''

Congress resumed debate this week on separate House and Senate immigration
bills. The House bill opposes giving citizenship to illegal immigrants and would
broadly criminalize the undocumented and those who assist them. The Senate bill
would create a process for legal residency and eventual citizenship for workers
who came here illegally.

Of the 11.1 million who are in the country illegally, 13 percent are Asian and
78 percent Latino, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. While Mexican
protesters at the May 1 marches proudly wore T-shirts and held signs that
defiantly proclaimed they were in the United States illegally, most undocumented
Asians choose to remain invisible, even within their own ethnic communities.

Roughly 10 percent of America's Asian population is here illegally, experts say.
In the Bay Area, as many as 180,000 Asians are undocumented, estimates the Asian
Law Caucus in San Francisco.

``They are very afraid,'' said Peter Chua, a San Jose State University professor
and director of Filipino Support in San Jose. ``People don't talk about it
openly. No one wants to admit their relatives are illegal.''

The narrative of undocumented Asians is markedly different from their Latino
counterparts -- a reason many have yet to embrace the issue of immigration
reform as their own.

Latino immigrants, who tend to be less educated, most commonly enter by
illegally crossing the border. Asian migrants, many of whom are college-educated
and hold professional jobs, usually arrive here legally on tourist, student or
work visas. Most become illegal after overstaying their visas' expiration dates,
immigration lawyers say.

`Always hiding'

In 2000, the largest group of undocumented Asians were Chinese (23 percent),
followed by Filipinos (17 percent), Indians (14 percent) and Koreans (11
percent), according to a study by the former Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

A small number of Asians, particularly those from the Philippines and Korea,
countries with strong traditions of protest, have rallied alongside Latinos. But
for many in the Asian-American community, ``the image of the undocumented are of
people who are jumping the fence, crossing the border without inspection,'' said
Dan Huang, a Los Angeles immigration advocate who is working with Asian-American
groups across the state. ``They don't tend to think about their friends and
families who . . . overstayed their papers as undocumented.''

Undocumented Filipinos are so common within the 2 million-strong population
nationwide, there's a Tagalog term for them: Tago Ng Tago, or commonly TNT,
which translates as ``always hiding.''

Frank, a 70-year-old from the Philippines who declined to give his last name, is
among them. A decade ago, he, his wife and grown daughter began living in San
Jose six months at a time using multiple entry visas. They illegally worked
during their stays.

A former entrepreneur and acting mayor of his hometown in Bulacan province, he
came to California after a business deal left his family in financial ruin. In
2002, the family became fearful they would be denied re-entry because of
increased scrutiny after Sept. 11. They overstayed their visas in 2002 and have
no plans to leave.

Once attended by maids, the San Jose man now mops floors and cleans bathrooms in
a nursing facility. ``Americans will not do the kinds of jobs we're doing,''
said Frank. ``I pray every night that I can become a citizen of this great
nation. I would be so proud.''

But Frank and other undocumented immigrants don't always get sympathy from other
Asian immigrants. One recent poll by New America Media, a consortium of ethnic
media, showed that while most Asians legally in this country are in favor of a
process to legalize those who are undocumented, 39 percent support the
deportation of all illegal immigrants, compared with 8 percent of Latinos here
legally.

When the plight of an undocumented Chinese family from San Bruno facing
deportation hit Chinese-language papers, the family was shocked by the reaction
of some recent Chinese immigrants here legally.

``People told their kids to stop playing with the family's kids,'' said Joren
Lyons, an attorney with the Asian Law Caucus who is handling their case. ``Not
the majority, but a sizable chunk of the community is very intolerant against
anyone who is undocumented. That's true in the general population as well.''

Some legal Asian immigrants also fear that supporting legalization for
undocumented immigrants might push them to the back of the line for green cards.

Manesh Kitanhoth, an Indian worker who has been in the United States for seven
years on the H-1B temporary guest worker visa, feels conflicted. He believes the
current legislation benefits only illegal immigrants.

``After seeing the protests and the attention it draws, my perception is it may
be easier to get citizenship through illegal immigration than legal
immigration,'' said Kitanhoth, of Newark. ``On the news, the governor of New
Mexico said that immigrants should be allowed to become legal if they are here
for five years, learn English, pay taxes. I've been doing that all the while but
I'm still struggling to get my green card.''

Green-card wait

Organizers say some of the proposed legislation would benefit people like
Kitanhoth, too, by shortening the wait for green cards, which currently averages
five to seven years.

Many Asians-Americans strongly support changes that would cut the backlog for
family reunification. Legal residents and U.S. citizens who petition to bring
over siblings from Asia have some of the longest waits of any group-- 23 years
for the Philippines and 12 years for India. Proposed legislation doesn't call
for more family visas, but would reduce the wait.

Some proposals would curtail protections currently enjoyed by legal residents,
limiting access to federal appeal in immigration and citizenship matters. The
House bill broadly criminalizes those who are undocumented, as well as legal
residents or citizens who assist them.

``Many Asians have mixed-status families,'' said Hong of the Asian American
Justice Center. ``If it passes, you will become a criminal even if you're a U.S.
citizen and you help your cousin who's undocumented. That's an untenable
situation to put everyday citizens in. This affects us all.''

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Almost 200 protest illegal immigration;
EVENT FOLLOWS MARCHES FAVORING IMMIGRANT RIGHTS

BYLINE: John Woolfolk, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words


Two days of noisy, peaceful and star-spangled protests in Santa Clara against
illegal immigration didn't muster the horde that rallied for immigrant rights in
San Jose recently, but organizers said they succeeded in making their voices
heard.

``It's a beginning,'' said Roberta Allen, 62, of San Jose, who organized the
demonstrations along Kiely Boulevard at Santa Clara's Central Park that were
coordinated with ``National Anti-Illegal Immigrant Protest'' events around the
country.

``You have to start somewhere,'' said Allen, waving Old Glory and sporting
patriotic stars and stripes on her shirt, fingernails and even contact lenses.
``As the old saying goes, you ain't seen the last of us.''

Santa Clara police estimated the crowd protesting illegal immigration at about
150 Saturday, with a dozen or so counterdemonstrators who were separated from
them by patrol cars.

About midway through the noon to 4 p.m. protest, the crowd swelled to nearly
200, with about 20 counterdemonstrators. Police reported no problems or arrests.

``It was very peaceful,'' said Santa Clara police Lt. Mike Sellers.

Protesters carried American flags, wore red, white and blue and waved
handwritten placards with slogans such as ``Secure the Borders,'' ``Stop the
Addiction -- No Illegal Labor'' and ``Legal Yes, Illegal No -- No Amnesty.''

Passing motorists honked their horns and waved U.S. flags in support, while
occasionally a car full of counterprotesters drove by waving a large Mexican
flag, drawing shouts and jeers from the demonstrators.

People of all ages joined the crowd protesting illegal immigration, and though
they were mostly older, white, conservative and native-born, there were several
exceptions. There was a Russian scientist visiting on a work visa who signed up
to enforce the border with the Minuteman Project, and a naturalized,
English-born San Francisco writer and self-described liberal who came to Santa
Clara to say all immigrants must follow the law.

Rajat Srivastava, 45, a high-tech engineer from Saratoga, joined the
demonstration with his wife Ratna and daughters Sarika, 11, and Simi, 8. It was
a first for all of them.

But Srivastava explained that after immigrating legally from India on a work
visa in the mid-1980s and waiting some 15 years before being naturalized in
2000, he was offended that others who cheated the system were rallying to demand
rights.

``We're very much in favor of legal immigration,'' Srivastava said. ``We know
people who have waited years and years to come here legally. This whole
situation of people flouting the law and claiming rights . . . is a gross abuse
of the willingness of this nation to assimilate people from various parts of the
world.''

Contact John Woolfolk at jwoolfolk@mercurynews.com or (408) 975-9346.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 12, 2006 Friday

Producing fake documents big U.S. business

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 640 words


Forgers are making tens of millions of dollars -- possibly billions -- selling
counterfeit Social Security cards, driver's licenses, immigrant registration
cards and other papers to an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

The dominant forgery-and-distribution network in the United States allegedly is
controlled by the Castorena family, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) officials said. Its members emigrated from Mexico in the late 1980s and
have allegedly used their printing skills and business acumen to capture a big
piece of the booming industry.

Only trained experts can distinguish its fake identity documents from real ones,
and the Castorena Family Organization, or CFO, as ICE officials call it, has
spread to at least 50 cities in 33 states.

At a sentencing hearing for one family member in December, U.S. District Judge
Lewis T. Babcock of Denver said the CFO's criminal reach is ``simply
breathtaking'' and strikes ``at the heart of the sovereignty of the United
States of America.''

The Castorena network hasn't surfaced in any major Bay Area investigations,
authorities said, but there are plenty of people selling forged documents on a
smaller scale -- sometimes with the help of government workers.

Federal authorities in the Bay Area indicted 10 people last year, including five
employees of the California Department of Motor Vehicles, for allegedly selling
bogus driver's licenses and identification cards.

The indictments alleged that so-called ``brokers'' would approach illegal
immigrants in Oakland and offer to sell them official identification for up to
$4,000 apiece. The brokers then paid DMV employees $1,000 or more to process
applications and issue driver's licenses based on false information.

In a 2004 case, federal authorities indicted eight members of a group that was
selling forged Social Security cards and other documents on street corners in
the Mission district of San Francisco. And while authorities couldn't cite any
recent prosecutions in San Jose, they said forged documents are sold in just
about any major city.

The threat of terrorism has made document forgers even more menacing since the
Sept. 11 attacks. Two of the hijackers used fraudulent notarized forms to obtain
valid Virginia ID cards, which enabled them to board the two airliners that
crashed into the World Trade Center.

Federal authorities said it's impossible to calculate the financial scope of
document forging, but illicit profits easily amount to millions of dollars, if
not billions.

Some fakes are laughingly amateurish. Analysts at the ICE document lab in
Northern Virginia said they occasionally come across ironed-on laminated cards
that contain imprints of the irons. One forger trying to replicate a document
from a foreign country used a picture of his uncle as a stand-in for the
country's president.

The gold standard for document forgeries, investigators said, comes off the
assembly line of the Castorena network. CFO counterfeiters microscopically study
relevant U.S. documents and meticulously replicate virtually every detail,
including some security features that are embedded into the laminate in an
attempt to prevent duplication.

Analysts using high-tech equipment at the ICE document lab unfailingly spot
forgeries, but the Castorena-produced documents can easily fool employers and
even the trained eyes of cops on the street.

Julie Myers, the assistant secretary for ICE, calls document forging an
``epidemic.'' Her agency, a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, is
waging a nationwide crackdown on forgery rings.

ICE agents are conducting more than 3,500 investigations nationwide into
document forging. They've closed document mills in Charlotte, N.C., Los Angeles,
Denver and several other cities in recent months.

Mercury News Staff Writer Brandon Bailey contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 14, 2006 Sunday

This time, let's deal with all the tough immigration decisions

BYLINE: Chuck Hagel and Mel Martinez

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 867 words


The U.S. Senate will return to debate next week on the Hagel-Martinez compromise
to reform our broken immigration system. We believe the Senate must seize this
historic opportunity to secure our borders and to enact comprehensive
immigration reform.

The first step in protecting the United States and halting the flow of illegal
immigrants is to secure our borders. We supported efforts to include nearly $2
billion for border security in the supplemental appropriations bill that passed
the Senate last week.

The compromise legislation builds on this effort by providing enhanced
technology and increased personnel at the border, while making it impossible to
get a job without proper fraud-resistant work authorization. The bill adds
nearly 15,000 new Border Patrol agents over the next six years. It dramatically
increases the number of immigration investigators (1,000), immigration
inspectors (1,250) and customs inspectors (1,000) as well. And it authorizes the
Department of Homeland Security to make important improvements and additions to
border infrastructure necessary to secure the border.

The bill also implements a simple worker-verification system that will allow
employers to verify the legal status of all new hires and penalizes employers
who continue to hire illegal employees.

In addition to strengthening our borders, Congress must deal with the 12 million
people living in our country illegally. The compromise bill would break this
population into 3 categories:

The first group -- recent arrivals who have entered the United States since
January 2004 -- would be required to leave the country. Those seeking to return
to the United States would have to wait in line on the other side of the border
and apply like everyone else under a new temporary worker program.

The second group -- those who have been here more than two years but less than
five -- would be required to exit the country at one of our land-border ports of
entry, where they would be fingerprinted after they have been cleared through a
background check, and admitted to the United States under the temporary work
program. They would be subject to the same rules as other temporary workers,
including caps on green cards. The process for acquiring a green card would take
at least six years and the applicant would have to prove he was working that
entire time.

The third group -- long-term workers who have been here five years or more --
would be allowed to stay in the United States and apply for permanent legal
status if they meet specific requirements. They would have the option to earn a
green card through good behavior including registering with the government,
undergoing criminal and national security background checks, paying a $2,000
fine and back taxes, then working and learning English for six years while
waiting their turn in line behind all current applicants for green cards. This
principle is an essential part of immigration reform.

The bill also includes a commonsense temporary worker program. The new program
will provide a legal mechanism to meet the undeniable demand for workers while
protecting the jobs of Americans and ensuring that their wages, benefits and
working conditions are not lowered as a result of new foreign workers.

Congress has tried partial fixes to immigration reform in the past. In 1986,
Congress allowed a large undocumented population to legalize but failed to
address economic demands for future workers and failed to secure our borders. In
1996, Congress passed new immigration enforcement laws but again failed to
address fundamental economic realities and border enforcement. The result was an
ever-increasing population of illegal workers coming to fill vacant (mostly
low-skill) jobs. Embracing an enforcement-only approach in 2006 dooms us to
continued failure in our immigration policy.

We believe the Hagel-Martinez compromise provides a foundation for comprehensive
reform and avoids mistakes of the past. This compromise is not a free pass or
guarantee to legal residence in the United States. It is a responsible and
rational mechanism for dealing with the illegal immigrant population already
here. A majority of the U.S. Senate agrees that this compromise is better than
the unrealistic, unreasonable alternative of attempting to deport 12 million
people -- equal to the population of Illinois or Pennsylvania.

If we fail to act on comprehensive immigration reform, we will have
fundamentally failed our country. From Miami to Grand Island, Neb., the American
people understand that we cannot continue to defer the tough decisions.

In the coming weeks, the Senate will have an opportunity to define America's
future by passing comprehensive immigration reform. Our national security,
economic security and heritage is at stake. Senators on all sides of this issue
have provided important leadership, and we look forward to fair up-or-down votes
on amendments offered by our colleagues. We intend to help lead a debate the
American people can be proud of. The future of our country depends on it.

represents Florida in the U.S. Senate. The two Republicans wrote this article
for Knight Ridder.

CHUCK HAGEL represents Nebraska in the U.S. Senate. MEL MARTINEZ

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 15, 2006 Monday

Plans for border alarm Fox;
BUSH SAYS BUILDUP OF NATIONAL GUARD WOULD BE TEMPORARY

BYLINE: Peter Baker, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 589 words


President Bush tried to ease the worries of his Mexican counterpart Sunday as he
prepared for a nationally televised address tonight unveiling a plan to send
thousands of National Guard troops to help seal the nation's southern border
against illegal immigrants.

Mexican President Vicente Fox called to express concern over the prospect of
militarization of the border and Bush reassured him that it would only be a
temporary measure to bolster overwhelmed Border Patrol agents, the White House
said.

``The president made clear that the United States considers Mexico a friend and
that what is being considered is not militarization of the border but support of
Border Patrol capabilities on a temporary basis by National Guard personnel,''
said White House spokeswoman Maria Tamburri.

Yet the idea has further stirred an already volatile debate about immigration on
both sides of the border even before the president makes his speech from the
Oval Office at 5 p.m PDT. A number of Democrats and even a few key Republicans
voiced skepticism or outright opposition to the reported plan Sunday, calling it
a politically motivated move that will only further strain units already
stretched by duty in Iraq without solving the underlying problem of illegal
immigration.

``We have to be very careful here,'' Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., said on ABC's
``This Week.'' ``That's not the role of our military. That's not the role of our
National Guard. . . . That's a short-term fix, and I'm not sure that's a very
wise fix.''

The White House formally insisted that no decision has been made and that Bush
still was considering options Sunday. But aides left little doubt that the
president intends to call for an expanded Guard deployment at the border
involving several thousand soldiers, a significant increase from the 200 or so
now there.

Officials suggested their mission would be to play a supporting role by
providing intelligence, training, transportation, construction and other
functions, while leaving the guarding of the 2,000-mile line separating the
United States and Mexico to the Border Patrol. The National Guard would be a
stopgap force until the federal government could hire civilian contractors to
take over administrative and support functions from the Border Patrol, freeing
more agents to hunt for immigrants slipping into the country.

``This is not about militarizing the border,'' national security adviser Stephen
Hadley said on CBS's ``Face the Nation.'' ``The president is looking to do
everything he can to secure the border. It's what the American people want, it's
what he wants to do.''

The prospective plan won support from several powerful Republicans. Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn., dismissed the ``whining and moaning'' of
critics and said the National Guard was the only option in the short term.

``We've got to secure our borders,'' Frist said on CNN's ``Late Edition.''

Frist said the full Senate planned to begin debating the immigration bill today
and that it would take up to two weeks to pass.

Fox for years has pressured Bush to help the at least 11 million illegal
immigrants now in the United States, many of them from Mexico, with little to
show for it.

Tonight's speech is aimed at assuaging House Republicans who have insisted on
tougher enforcement measures against workers illegally in the country. If the
House contingent feels action is being taken, White House officials hope they
might sign off on some version of Bush's guest worker proposal.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

Bush wisely seeks workable compromise

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 492 words


President Bush went before the nation Monday with the speech he should have
given a year ago, before House Republicans dug a deep trench on immigration and
planted themselves on the opposite side. The delay will complicate his goal of
comprehensive immigration legislation, but to his credit -- and at great
political risk for a president with flagging popularity -- Bush has taken up the
challenge.

First, he must soften up House conservatives, who oppose what he and most
senators support: a system of temporary work visas and an opportunity for earned
citizenship for many of the 11 million to 12 million undocumented immigrants
already in America. The House solution, as harsh as it is unworkable, is mass
deportation and legislation that would make living here illegally a felony.

A tighter border, checking the flow of illegal immigrants, is essential for a
visa system to work. In an appeal to conservatives, Bush stressed border
security, calling for high-tech surveillance and motion detectors. He also
offered two new steps to tighten enforcement: sending the National Guard to the
border with Mexico and enlisting the help of local and state police. Both are
problematic; the latter, depending on what the president has in mind for the
locals, could be volatile.

Bush is proposing to send 6,000 National Guard soldiers in short stints to serve
as an interim auxiliary border patrol, while additional border agents are hired
and trained. They would do behind-the-scenes work like building roads, running
detention centers and conducting surveillance.

Both sides of the issue criticized the idea. Those favoring an open border
condemned the militarization of it -- an overstatement of Bush's plan.
Conservatives questioned the Guard's effectiveness in catching border crossers.
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger called it a Band-Aid -- an accurate characterization,
since Bush foresees only a temporary role for the Guard.

Though Bush made only a brief mention of local and state authorities, saying he
wants them ``to help federal officers apprehend and detain illegal immigrants,''
the reference should sound an alarm. State and local involvement should be
minimal; securing the borders must remain primarily a federal responsibility. A
larger role would destroy the trust that the police and local authorities have
built in immigrant neighborhoods and force undocumented families underground.

Tuesday, the Senate moved closer toward bipartisan agreement on comprehensive
legislation. But senators and House Republicans remain far apart. Even with
intense lobbying, the president may not bring them together this year.

But Bush, a former border state governor, understands the complexities of the
issue, and, unlike some in his party, won't demonize immigrants who have come in
search of a better life. If Bush can forge a compromise that is, as he said
Monday, both ``welcoming'' and ``lawful,'' immigration reform will be a large
legacy of his second term.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 527 words

HOLTVILLE

2 die in crash of van coming from border

A van packed with more than two dozen people crashed on a highway in the
Southern California desert, killing at least two suspected illegal immigrants
and critically injuring several others, officials said.

The crash on westbound Interstate 8 occurred after 10 p.m. Monday when the van,
followed by U.S. Border Patrol officers, suddenly swerved into the center
divider at up to 65 mph and rolled over several times, said Officer Robert
Gonzales, a California Highway Patrol representative.

At least 27 people were in the van, Gonzales said.

On Feb. 10, more than 20 people were injured, eight critically, when a van
packed with 28 people crashed on the U.S. side of the border with Mexico.

Last year, a van loaded with eight illegal Mexican immigrants slammed head-on
into a pickup near Jamul, about 20 miles east of San Diego. Five people were
killed.

LOS ANGELES

Producer pleads guilty in investment scheme

A Hollywood producer pleaded guilty Tuesday to running a scheme that bilked
millions of dollars from people who invested in a phony television series about
the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.

Joseph Medawar, 44, faces up to 10 years in prison and $9 million in fines when
he is sentenced in August. He pleaded guilty in federal court to a charge of tax
evasion and a charge of conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire fraud, said
Thom Mrozek, representative for the U.S. Attorney's Office.

Prosecutors said that from May 2003 through September 2005, Medawar told
investors that his production company, Steeple Entertainment, was about to sell
stock to the public and that it was worth more than $200 million. As part of the
scheme, the government said, he falsely claimed 26 episodes of ``DHS'' were in
post-production and that the company had distribution deals with 137 overseas
markets.

LOS ANGELES

Lawyers seek FBI data on monitoring Muslims

Attorneys for the American Civil Liberties Union have asked the FBI to reveal
any post-Sept. 11 surveillance of Southern California Muslims.

The ACLU made the request for documents Monday, after Islamic leaders said the
FBI gave them little information when they alleged that investigators had been
monitoring local Muslims and mosques.

Shakeel Syed, head of the Islamic Shura Council, said many Southern California
Muslims have reported being questioned by the FBI about sermons delivered in
local mosques.

In an e-mail to the Los Angeles Times, FBI officials said they would address the
ACLU's request but did not mention turning over documents.

LODI

Newlyweds' second trip to judge not as happy

A newlywed couple pleaded not guilty to drug charges in front of the same judge
who pronounced them husband and wife the day before their arrest.

David Navarro, 19, and Tiffany Castro, 18, were arrested Thursday on suspicion
of selling methamphetamine after officers stopped them for a traffic violation
and found about an ounce of drugs and $3,300 in cash in their car and home,
police said.

San Joaquin County Superior Judge Ron Northup had wed the couple a day earlier.

The couple spent their honeymoon behind bars and remained in jail Tuesday.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 18, 2006 Thursday

Senate backs border fence;
LAWMAKERS ALSO OK IMMIGRATION LIMITS

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words


The Senate called Wednesday for at least 350 miles of new triple-layered fencing
on sections of the 2,000-mile U.S.-Mexican border to crack down on illegal
immigration and smuggling.

Senators also unanimously adopted an amendment co-sponsored by Sens. John
Cornyn, R-Texas, and Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., that prohibits immigrants convicted of
felonies or three misdemeanors from being eligible for the green cards that
would give them permanent legal status.

The $1 billion fence proposal, approved by a vote of 83-16, is less extensive
than a 700-mile fence proposed by the House of Representatives, but it puts both
chambers of Congress in support of building expanded barriers across the
southwestern border.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., said his fence amendment tracks a plan by the
Department of Homeland Security to construct fences in areas frequently used by
smugglers and illegal immigrants.

The department would determine the locations, but Sessions indicated that much
of the fencing would be in Arizona and California and would be linked to a
20-mile fence already constructed near San Diego. The plan also calls for 500
miles of additional vehicle barriers.

Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff has opposed barriers along the full
length of the border, but he supports renewed and expanded barriers in
vulnerable areas.

The 700-mile fence that the House included in an enforcement-oriented
immigration bill in December would cost an estimated $2.2 billion.

Supporters described the Senate plan as a modest alternative to the House one,
without the negative symbolism. But Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the
Senate's leading architects of immigration legislation, lambasted Sessions'
explanation that the barriers would be confined to strategic locations.

``Let's be serious,'' Kennedy said, contending that the fence could cost as much
as $4 billion. ``That's almost a quarter of the whole southern border stretching
from California to the Gulf of Mexico.''

Inclusion of the fencing appeared to be aimed at making the legislation more
acceptable to the House during future negotiations to reconcile differences
between the two bills.

Senators also voted 66-33 to preserve a key component that would grant legal
status to millions of illegal immigrants, but they continued to refine the bill
in an attempt to pick up votes from wavering senators in both parties.

Senators accepted a Democratic amendment aimed at preventing a temporary
guest-worker program from undercutting prevailing wages paid to U.S. workers.
Critics of the guest-worker program also have retooled the measure to reduce the
total number of guest workers admitted each year to 200,000 from 325,000.

But Wednesday, the prospects for legislation clearing Congress were clouded by a
withering attack against Bush by a prominent House Republican.

``Regardless of what the president says, what he is proposing is amnesty,'' said
Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., the lawmaker who would lead House negotiators
in any attempt to draft a compromise immigration bill later this year.

Bush stood his ground. ``The Republican Party needs to lead on the issue of
immigration,'' he told an audience of GOP donors, ``America can be a lawful
society and a welcoming society, and we don't have to choose between the two.''

The attack by Sensenbrenner, chair of the House Judiciary Committee, came on the
day the White House dispatched top presidential aide Karl Rove to ease the
concerns of rebellious House Republicans and GOP senators clashed on the Senate
floor.

Sensenbrenner's remarks were unusually sharp, given his chairmanship. ``He said
four times this is not amnesty. Well, it is an amnesty, because it allows people
who have broken the law to stay in the country,'' he said of the positions Bush
staked out in his speech earlier in the week.

The political wheels turned as demonstrators massed within sight of the Capitol
demanding greater rights for immigrants, the latest evidence of rising passions
in connection with efforts to write the most significant overhaul of immigration
law in two decades.

With the administration eager to emphasize its commitment to border security,
officials continued to flesh out details of Bush's Monday night announcement
that he would send up to 6,000 National Guard soldiers to states along the
Mexican border.

Lt. Gen. Steven Blum, chief of the National Guard Bureau, raised the possibility
that Guard members could be sent over the objections of a state's governor.

``If a governor truly did not want this mission performed in their state, then
the option is there for the president and the secretary of defense to federalize
the Guard. And then the mission would be conducted, and then it would be without
the control of the governor,'' he said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 19, 2006 Friday

A BID TO MAKE ENGLISH OFFICIAL

BYLINE: Dave Montgomery, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words


In an impassioned debate, the Senate voted 63-34 on Thursday to declare English
the national language as it continued to debate legislation that would put
millions of illegal immigrants on track to U.S. citizenship.

Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., denounced the amendment as racist
and joined other opponents in warning that it could undercut long-established
civil rights law. The amendment's lead sponsor, Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla.,
bristled at the assertion, saying the proposal would unify the nation's
increasingly diverse population and would not dismantle existing legal
protections.

The first Senate vote on the issue in more than two decades illuminated the
emotional divisions over Congress' efforts to craft legislation to deal with as
many as 12 million immigrants who have entered the country illegally in search
of better-paying jobs.

Many amendments

The Senate is considering nearly two dozen amendments on a comprehensive plan to
grant legal status to many illegal immigrants and create a temporary
guest-worker program to help fill what U.S. business leaders say is a chronic
labor shortage. A final vote on the measure is expected next week.

Despite the intensity of the arguments on both sides, it was unclear what
impact, if any, Inhofe's English-language amendment would have if it became law.
Senators further confused the situation later by accepting a softer alternative
declaring English ``the common and unifying language of the United States.'' The
vote on that one, sponsored by Sen. Ken Salazar, D-Colo., was 58-39.

Salazar, one of three Latino senators, whose family settled in Colorado before
it became a state, asserted that the Inhofe amendment threatened a return ``to
the dark days of American history'' when Latino children were punished for
speaking Spanish in school, sometimes by having soap thrust in their mouths.

51 other countries

In response, Inhofe said his proposal would put the U.S. government in line with
27 states and 51 countries that declare English the prevailing language. He
called Reid's ``racist'' tag a ridiculous charge and accused opponents of
demagoguery.

``This is your last chance to have English as the national language,'' he told
colleagues.

Supporters suggested that the measure will be especially needed as millions of
illegal immigrants and future foreign workers get on track for U.S. citizenship.

Senators said both amendments would be part of negotiations with the House of
Representatives to reconcile differences in the two chambers' immigration plans.
Asked whether the language amendments would have any effect, Sen. John McCain,
R-Ariz., one of the Senate's leading architects on immigration legislation,
responded: ``Not that I know of.''

The bill already requires English proficiency as a condition for illegal
immigrants to obtain permanent legal status and citizenship over an 11-year
period. At least 215 million of the nearly 300 million U.S. residents speak
English, but the diverse population otherwise constitutes a linguistic melting
pot, speaking as many as 176 languages. Spanish is the second most common,
spoken by 28 million people.

Conservatives, surging with momentum after winning Senate support to erect at
least 350 miles of fencing along the Southwest border, continued their attempt
to limit the scope of the guest-worker program and legalization provisions that
they denounced as amnesty for illegal behavior.

By 50-49, the Senate rejected an amendment that would have prevented immigrants
from getting Social Security benefits that they earned when they were here
illegally.

Senators also voted 63-34 to approve an amendment by Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas,
to add fees that would be charged to illegal immigrants after they step forward
to begin the legalization process. The fees -- $750 for illegal immigrants and
$100 for each dependent -- will be in addition to the $2,000 fines already
proposed in the bill.

Cornyn said the fees are designed to reimburse state and local governments for
health care and other services provided to illegal immigrants. The assessment
could raise up to $7.5 billion, he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 19, 2006 Friday

BAY AREA

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 738 words

Immigration critics plan rallies today and Saturday to protest amnesty plan

South Bay residents who support a crackdown on illegal immigration said they
will hold two mini-rallies today and Saturday, to voice their concerns about a
bill now under debate in the U.S. Senate, and to express support for a tougher
version that was enacted by the House of Representatives.

Proposed amendments in the Senate bill cover many points, but one section would
create a process for millions of illegal immigrants to eventually gain
citizenship, which Fremont activist Charles Birkman said amounts to amnesty for
people who have broken the law. ``It's not the kind of message we want to
send,'' he said.

Birkman prefers the House bill, which calls for stricter enforcement, although
many immigrants and their advocates say it would unfairly treat otherwise
law-abiding people as criminals. Birkman and others opposed to illegal
immigration said they will bring flags and signs to express their views at two
sites this weekend.

Protesters will gather today from 5 to 7 p.m. at Fremont Boulevard and Mowry
Avenue in Fremont. They also plan to rally from noon to 3 p.m. Saturday at
Stevens Creek and Winchester boulevards, near the Westfield Valley Fair shopping
center in San Jose.

-- Brandon Bailey

Asian-Americans honoring heritage at public events

Bay Area residents are celebrating Asian American Heritage Month in many ways,
including hosting community events with taiko drumming and Thai, Hawaiian,
Middle Eastern and Filipino dancing, as well as Indian cultural programs.

On Saturday, community members are holding the 13th annual Asian American
Heritage Festival at the Thai Buddhist Temple in Union City, 32975
Alvarado-Niles Blvd., from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Organizers John Hsieh and Lee Guio
said there will be live performances by more than 120 Bay Area entertainers from
Taiwan, Japan, the Philippines, Thailand and other Asian Pacific countries. The
event is free, and refreshments will be served.

On May 27, a separate celebration will be held at the Milpitas Library, at
Calaveras and Milpitas boulevards, from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Organizer Sam Rao
said the free program will include cultural performances, music and information
tables on Indo-Americans' social contributions to the United States. For
information, click on www.indian-american.org.

-- Lisa Fernandez

PALO ALTO

Teen faithful will perform popular music at St. Mark's

God and Coldplay will meet this Sunday at St. Mark's Episcopal Church for a
unique spiritual experience.

Palo Alto teens will perform music by the popular British band at the 5 p.m.
service. The music includes themes of spirituality and social consciousness,
leading listeners to ``encounter God's work in the world and in us,'' according
to the church.

This isn't the first time St. Mark's has blended the contemporary with the
sacred. It has featured U2's music in its services and held Bible study classes
using the irreverent Simpsons cartoon.

``We're out in the world. We can't compartmentalize,'' said the Rev. Matthew
McDermott. ``If we can't find God in our everyday world, then Sunday service is
pretty useless.''

St. Mark's is at 600 Colorado Ave.

-- Kim Vo

ALAMEDA COUNTY

High court clears late judge over claims of racial bias

The California Supreme Court on Thursday rejected claims that a judge advised a
prosecutor to remove prospective jurors from a death penalty trial because they
were Jewish.

The court found insufficient evidence of misconduct by Alameda County Superior
Court Judge Stanley Golde, who died in 1998. A misconduct finding could have led
the courts to overturn dozens of death sentences.

The court also discounted claims that the Alameda County District Attorney's
Office had a policy of barring not only Jews but also black women from death
penalty juries.

Thursday's ruling relied heavily on a report by Santa Clara County Superior
Court Judge Kevin Murphy, who was asked to hear evidence on the claims.

The case had stirred wide attention because of the charges of illegal bias in
jury picking and because of a study that concluded there was less than a 0.16
percent chance that prosecutors struck Jewish jurors randomly in Alameda County
from 1977 to 1987.

Lawyers in criminal cases are allowed to remove a limited number of jurors for
tactical reasons, but cannot dismiss them because of their race, gender or
religion, or for certain other characteristics.

-- Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Simple fence at center of immigration debate

BYLINE: Molly Hennessy-Fiske and Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 596 words


To protect the United States against foreign intruders, the government can
deploy motion detectors, infrared sensors, biometric ID cards, look-down radar,
even remote-controlled spy planes that keep watch from the stratosphere.

But only one device seems to count in the current debate in Washington on how to
protect the southern border against illegal immigrants: one of man's oldest and
simplest inventions, the fence.

On conservative talk-radio shows, on Web sites and blogs devoted to stopping
illegal migrants, and in the halls of Congress, the idea that any overhaul of
immigration policy must begin with construction of more fences has become a
symbolic litmus test.

And they mean physical barriers of wire and steel and concrete as high as 15
feet. Administration officials this week argued in vain that a high-tech
``virtual fence'' would work better. Senate moderates, struggling to pass an
alternative to the enforcement-only approach adopted by the House, could not
prevent a proposal for more fences from being adopted as the first amendment to
their bill.

Even President Bush, who as recently as March told CNN en Espanol, ``It's
impractical to fence off the border,'' embraced the idea of more fences during
his Oval Office speech Monday.

But will more fences make the 2,000-mile-long U.S. border with Mexico more
secure? Will they stop the tide of illegal workers, or even reduce it
significantly?

Currently, some 75 miles of security fence and 50 miles of vehicle barriers are
scattered in segments along the southern border. The evidence of their
effectiveness is mixed. So far, migrants have tunneled under fences, scaled them
and cut their way through with blowtorches. When all else failed, they have gone
around.

``Fences help when they are part of a broad combination of people, equipment and
technology,'' said Doris Meissner, who served as immigration commissioner during
the Clinton administration, ``but in the current debate, they have taken on a
life of their own.''

Congressional estimates put the price of proposed fencing at up to $2.2 billion.
There are various types of fencing along the border. Some are formidable metal
barriers constructed from surplus military ``landing mats'' -- huge slabs of
metal originally used in makeshift airstrips. There are concrete ``bollards.''
And there is barbed wire.

The Senate bill would rebuild and extend double- and triple-layer fencing and
barriers near Douglas, Lukeville, Nogales and other Arizona border towns. It
also would add 370 miles of triple-layer fencing and 500 miles of barriers to
various areas frequented by smugglers and illegal immigrants.

Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Gold River, said immigration bills based on improved fences
appealed to Republican moderates in Congress concerned about approving a
guest-worker program without enough border security.

The construction of more formidable fencing along the border began in the 1990s.
While it has diverted illegal immigrants from urban areas where they can cross
quickly and blend in easily, it has not reduced the overall influx of migrants,
estimated at about 750,000 a year.

Advocates of more fences see them as more than a tool in the security arsenal.

Colin Hanna, president of the Philadelphia-based WeNeedAFence.com, calls them
``the centerpiece of any serious attempt to secure the border.''

The founder of the California-based Minuteman Project, Jim Gilchrist, said: ``A
physical barrier will send a message to those south of the border that you are
trespassing, you really are going to have to go out of your way and know you are
breaking the law.''

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Protesters condemn amnesty plan;
OPPOSED TO BILL IN SENATE

BYLINE: Brandon Bailey, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words


Waving handwritten signs that proclaimed ``No Amnesty,'' a handful of activists
braved a light rain in Fremont on Friday evening to protest legislation that
would create a process for undocumented immigrants to earn U.S. citizenship.

``I'm not for stopping all immigration. But if we give amnesty to people who
came here illegally, we are sending the message that it's OK to break the law,''
said Dave Sander, a 40-year-old industrial painter who waved an American flag at
Mowry Avenue and Fremont Boulevard.

Sander and about 15 other protesters said they decided to speak out after a week
in which President Bush called both for cracking down on illegal border
crossings and for creating a legalization process for immigrants already here.

The U.S. Senate appears close to adopting such a plan, although it must be
reconciled with a House of Representatives bill that would instead make illegal
immigration a felony, punished by time in prison.

Protesters said they support the House bill, and were dismayed by Bush's
proposal even though the president insisted it was not ``amnesty.'' He called
for imposing civil fines while letting undocumented immigrants apply for
citizenship behind people who have entered the country legally.

Homemaker Eileen Williams said her husband's roofing company loses business to
competing firms that hire undocumented workers at lower cost. She said a prison
sentence would discourage people from coming to this country illegally.

``Lawful immigration is OK, but when I see any breach of the law, I get upset,''
said Chetan Hari, a 70-year-old engineering technician who came to the United
States legally from India in 1996. Now a U.S. citizen, he held a sign that said
``Deport all illegals'' and added: ``The law is what makes this country
strong.''

Contact Brandon Bailey at bbailey@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5022.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 21, 2006 Sunday

Fox in California

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 288 words


Haven't had enough of the illegal immigration debate?

Expect plenty more this week -- and maybe some more protests -- when Mexican
President Vicente Fox and his wife come to California.

The official itinerary isn't out, but Fox is expected to meet with Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa after visiting Utah
and Washington.

``We are pleased that they saved the best state as the last stop on their trip
to the United States,'' Schwarzenegger said. ``California and Mexico share more
than geography -- we are intrinsically tied by economics, history and culture.''

And a bitter debate over illegal immigration.

Fox's appearance, which his aides have said has nothing to do with the
legislative debate over illegal immigration, could fire up Mexican nationals and
immigrants in California -- and also become a target of anti-illegal immigrant
protests.

Why we `heart' politics

Call it the ``heart'' attack ad.

Bill Conrad, who is running for the 25th Assembly District seat in the Central
Valley, has put out a mailer that says his opponent in the Republican primary,
Tom Berryhill, ``Doesn't have the HEART for state Assembly.''

Berryhill, the mailer points out, underwent a heart transplant six years ago --
and it further notes that average life expectancy for people who have had heart
transplants is seven years.

Berryhill is appropriately disgusted. Conrad has defended the ad, saying it's
important that voters know the facts.

Some have suggested that Berryhill adopt a campaign slogan of his own: It's
better to have someone else's heart than no heart at all.

And you thought that Democratic primary race was turning nasty.

Compiled by Steven Harmon and Alvie Lindsay of the Mercury News Sacramento
Bureau

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 22, 2006 Monday

Immigration forum aims to keep dialogue open;
ABOUT 25 SHOW UP AT DISCUSSION SPONSORED BY CATHOLIC GROUPS

BYLINE: Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 489 words


Lorena Solorio remembers her younger brother teasing her as a child, telling her
he was better than she was. Born in the United States, he was a citizen. Brought
to the country in the trunk of a car, she was not.

``I couldn't understand why we had to sneak in,'' she said Sunday.

Now an employee of Catholic Charities of San Jose and a U.S. citizen, Solorio
works with many children who are in the country illegally. As the national
debate over illegal immigration continues to swirl, she said, she sees in those
children the same confusion she felt as a child.

Solorio shared her story at an immigration forum at Our Lady of the Rosary
Church in Palo Alto. About 25 people attended the ``Walls or Welcome?'' forum,
which was sponsored by the Catholic Community of Palo Alto, the Human Concerns
Commission and Deanery 2 of the Diocese of San Jose and the Santa Clara County
Council of Churches.

The forum aimed to spark discussion about why people come to the United States
illegally and to articulate the Catholic Church's position on the issues.

Some church leaders, including Cardinal Roger Mahony, the archbishop of Los
Angeles, have advocated strongly against legislation that would make it a felony
to be in the country illegally or to help someone who is. The debate has
galvanized many of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants nationwide and
sparked protests and counterprotests across the country.

The Catholic Church does not officially support illegal immigration or lobby for
open borders, said Gregory Kepferle, the CEO of Catholic Charities of San Jose.
The church's position is that people should enter the country legally and that
nations can control their borders as long as the controls are humane.

But Catholic leaders are advocating for laws that would allow people who crossed
into the country illegally or overstayed their visas to start on a path to legal
residence, keep families together and provide a way for workers to enter the
country, Kepferle said.

Kepferle and the forum's speakers advocated taking a broader view of immigration
issues, examining the conditions that incite people to come to the United States
illegally and studying what can be done to remedy them.

``Poor and persecuted people will always look for a way to feed their
children,'' said Richard Hobbs, the director of the Santa Clara County Office of
Human Relations. ``Ultimately, the reason immigrants give up their extended
families, their culture and everything they know is because of world economic
differences.''

Many of those who attended said they agree with the need for a humanitarian
approach to immigration reform and to the broader issues of poverty worldwide.

``My heart is really with people who are seeking to improve their life,'' said
Louis Facchino, a San Mateo psychotherapist who has been involved with immigrant
communities for more than 40 years.

Contact Kimra McPherson at kmcpherson@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5928.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 521 words

SAN DIEGO

Border shooting stories differ in documents

Court documents released Monday gave a picture of the confusion inside a vehicle
carrying illegal immigrants moments before the driver was shot dead by a U.S.
Border Patrol agent last week.

The documents were in a complaint filed against Jose Adolfo Gonzalez Fabian, who
appeared in federal court on charges of transportation of illegal aliens.

Gonzalez was seated next to the driver when federal agents surrounded the
vehicle May 18, a short distance from a busy border crossing linking San Diego
and Tijuana, Mexico. The crossing was shut for nine hours following the
shooting, which is under investigation by Mexican and U.S. authorities.

Gonzalez said that when agents smashed the vehicle window, the driver had his
hands up. Gonzalez turned to look out the passenger side window and felt the
vehicle move forward. He said he told the driver to stop the vehicle. Then he
heard gunshots and saw the driver had a bullet wound in his neck and was
bleeding from his mouth, according to court documents.

But a juvenile illegal immigrant in the rear of the vehicle said that after the
vehicle stopped at the San Ysidro Port of Entry, he heard the passenger tell the
driver ``Go, go, go!'' according to the complaint. The juvenile saw the driver
shift the vehicle into gear. Then he heard a shot, and saw the driver bleeding
from an ear.

The driver, identified by the San Diego County Medical Examiner as Oscar Abraham
Garcia Barrios, was pronounced dead at the scene.

FRESNO

Fruit fly discoveries stoke quarantine fears

The discovery of a guava fruit fly and four peach fruit flies near town last
week has added to the fear that agriculture officials will order a quarantine of
fruit in Fresno County.

Officials confirmed Friday that a fourth insect found in the western edge of the
city of Fresno was a peach fruit fly. The other flies were found earlier in the
week.

County workers are now stringing traps to capture and kill any flies in an
81-square mile area where they were discovered.

If two more peach flies are found, officials might be forced to declare a
quarantine that would restrict the movement of fruits and vegetables out of the
effected area, possibly costing local growers hundreds of thousands of dollars.

The guava and peach flies are not as menacing as other types of pests, such as
the Mediterranean fruit fly, but still pose threats to various types of tree
fruit.

BRAWLEY

Suspected burglar found inside chimney

A man faces a burglary charge after police found him stuck in a chimney.

Matthew Allen, 27, told police he fell down the chimney after going on to the
roof of the house to look at the stars.

When he got stuck near the bottom of the chimney, he took his pants off and
began waving them around to set off the home's motion detectors. Neighbors
eventually heard a commotion coming from the house and called the police.

Firefighters lowered a chain ladder to Allen, who was able to climb out from the
chimney.

Allen, who had a warrant for his arrest for driving under the influence of
alcohol, faces a count of residential burglary.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration bill teeters;
BUSH SUPPORT UNCERTAIN BUT CRUCIAL FOR FRAGILE COMPROMISE IN SENATE

BYLINE: Charles Babington, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words


With the Senate marching toward completion of an immigration bill that is more
generous to illegal immigrants than the House-passed version, House leaders said
Tuesday that it would be difficult to reach a compromise and enact a measure
into law.

Several House Republicans said an accord is possible only if President Bush
pours his full energy into the effort, which they say is an uncertain prospect
given his preoccupation with Iraq, his low poll numbers and GOP skittishness
about November's elections.

The Senate on Tuesday continued to reject amendments that might threaten the
shaky alliance behind a bill that Bush supports. The bill, sponsored by GOP
Sens. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska and Mel Martinez of Florida and slated for a final
vote this week, combines tougher border security with prospective legal status
for millions of illegal immigrants and a guest-worker program.

The House bill, passed in December, deals only with tougher border and workplace
enforcement efforts. Numerous House Republicans and some Democrats strongly
support that version, lawmakers said, and they are urging colleagues to resist
the president's call to move closer to the Senate's approach this summer.

Senators voted 61-37 to reject an amendment that would have allowed the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants to stay in the country and work toward
citizenship, if they have no criminal records. It would have upended the
Hagel-Martinez provision that would divide illegal immigrants into three
categories: those here five years or longer, who could stay and pursue
citizenship; those here two to five years, who could apply for ``green card''
status after leaving the country; and those here less than two years, who would
be ordered home.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., sponsor of the unsuccessful amendment, said the
three-tier approach is unworkable and ``would create a bureaucratic nightmare
and . . . lead to substantial fraud.'' But supporters of Hagel-Martinez called
their version a carefully calibrated compromise that can attract a
filibuster-proof majority.

In another vote, senators approved fines of up to $20,000 for each unauthorized
worker hired by an employer.

Employers would have to check Social Security numbers and the immigration status
of all new hires within 18 months after money is provided to the Homeland
Security Department to expand the electronic system for screening workers.

``This is probably the single most important thing we can do in terms of
reducing the inflow of undocumented workers, making sure we can enforce in a
systematic way rules governing who gets hired,'' said Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill.

The amendment passed 58-40. Opponents said the verification system would take
years to implement and complained that workers deemed illegal could still hold
onto jobs until their appeals are exhausted.

Employers who do not use the new system could be fined $200 to $600. The system
would include information from the Social Security Administration, the Internal
Revenue Service and the Homeland Security Department.

The $20,000 fines for hiring illegal immigrants once the new screening system is
in place would be double the present level. Repeated violators could be
sentenced to prison terms of up to three years.

The House passed a bill in December that would impose fines on employers of
undocumented workers ranging from $5,000 to $40,000. But, unlike the Senate
bill, the House measure would require employers to screen all employees -- an
estimated 140 million people -- instead of only new hires.

With Senate passage on an immigration measure appearing likely, focus is
shifting to impending negotiations with the House, expected to begin next month.
The immigration issue fractures both parties, especially in the House, along
unfamiliar lines, and it is far from clear whether House leaders can craft a
compromise acceptable to majorities in both chambers.

House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, told reporters Tuesday: ``You all
know how far apart these two bills are, and how far apart the American people's
opinions are. So trying to find a pathway that is acceptable to the House and
Senate is going to be very difficult.''

Deputy House Whip Eric Cantor, R-Va., said that if a compromise is to win House
approval, ``it needs to be about border security first.'' House members might
accept some form of pathway to legality for undocumented workers, he said, but
only if it is preceded by clear evidence that tighter border restrictions are
beginning to work.

Rep. Ray LaHood, R-Ill., who supports the Senate version, said finding a
workable House-Senate accord will be a huge challenge. ``Whether the speaker and
majority leader can pull that rabbit out of the hat is the $64 billion
question,'' LaHood said. ``I think if the president puts his full weight behind
it, he can get it. But it's a big pull.''

Rep. Mike Pence, R-Ind., a prominent House conservative, called for a bill that
would largely track the House version, adding a guest-worker program. But
Pence's plan would require all illegal immigrants in the United States to be
deported, a move most senators reject.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 27, 2006 Saturday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words

LOS ANGELES

Mexican President Fox meets with mayor, Cardinal Mahony

Mexican President Vicente Fox on Friday was wrapping up a visit that
anti-illegal immigration groups slammed as an attempt to influence congressional
debate and that immigrant supporters praised for recognizing Mexico's
responsibility in a binational issue.

Fox's afternoon agenda included meetings with two fellow proponents of changes
in immigration law, Los Angeles Cardinal Roger Mahony and Mayor Antonio
Villaraigosa. Both have been high-profile supporters of marches that brought
hundreds of thousands of immigrants to the streets.

Mahony met privately with Fox for 15 minutes at the Millennium Biltmore Hotel
and later said he was impressed with the emphasis Fox put on border security.

``He, too, is worried about the drugs and criminals that are there,'' the
cardinal told reporters in Spanish.

About 50 people protested noisily when the Mexican president arrived at the
Biltmore.

``We want him to create jobs in Mexico, not come here looking for jobs for
Mexicans here,'' said retiree Miguel Salazar, 78, a U.S. citizen originally from
Mexico City.

PASADENA

Georgia Tech official to replace Baltimore as Caltech president

Georgia Tech official Jean-Lou Chameau was named Friday as the new president of
the California Institute of Technology, succeeding Nobel Prize-winning scientist
David Baltimore.

Chameau, a Stanford-educated civil engineer known for his interdisciplinary
approach as provost and vice president for academic affairs at the Georgia
Institute of Technology, will take the post by Sept. 1, the school said.

After nearly nine years as president, Baltimore resigned in October to pursue
HIV and AIDS research. He will remain at Caltech as a biology professor.

One of the world's leading research centers, Caltech manages NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory and several observatories.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Readers expound on immigration Should illegal immigrants be allowed to become
legal residents?

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words


Online poll results:

Yes.1,163 votes (33%)

No.2,360 votes (67%)

To participate in this and other online polls, go to www.mercurynews.com/news.

One of the most active reader polls on Mercurynews.com in the past week asked
for your thoughts about whether illegal immigrants should be allowed to work
toward legal status:

From: swileyes

Why not pressure the president of Mexico to create jobs for its people so they
can make a decent living for their families? These are good, kindhearted people
. . . who are just trying to live and eat peacefully on this planet the short
time we are allotted here.

From: Herelegal

Good for the members of the House of Representatives that are saying NO to
amnesty, even if you don't call it that way. The only patriots in the government
are the members of the House of Representatives. Vote the senators out. No to
amnesty.

From: RenegadeRoy

There's no need to deport anyone. Just enforce existing public law, vigorously.
Illegal workers will repatriate on their own when there are no jobs for them
here. New arrivals will fall off, too, since there would be no work.

From: goomigration

In my humble opinion, before we can address the issue, we need to understand and
respect the immigration laws. Second, we need to first pay respect to people who
are legal residents in the U.S. These are the real heart and soul of the U.S.,
regardless of their race, color or nation of origin. Third, we need to address
the fundamental social issues, such as our health care, Social Security benefit,
our pension, education system, unemployment rate, inflation.

Online chats:

Wednesday:

Mr. Road

show (Gary Richards) Topic: Local traffic and highways.

Chat is from noon to 1 p.m.

Featured content

Elections page: With the June primary less than two weeks away, find a wealth of
election information, including how the San Jose mayoral candidates stand on key
issues, positions of the Democratic gubernatorial candidates, and coverage of
ballot measures. www.mercurynews.com/news

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Readers expound on immigrationShould illegal immigrants be allowed to become
legal residents?

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words


Online poll results:

Yes.1,163 votes (33%)

No.2,360 votes (67%)

To participate in this and other online polls, go to www.mercury

news.com/news.

One of the most active reader polls on Mercurynews.com in the past week asked
for your thoughts about whether illegal immigrants should be allowed to work
toward legal status:

From: swileyes

Why not pressure the president of Mexico to create jobs for its people so they
can make a decent living for their families? These are good, kindhearted people
. . . who are just trying to live and eat peacefully on this planet the short
time we are allotted here.

From: Herelegal

Good for the members of the House of Representatives that are saying NO to
amnesty, even if you don't call it that way. The only patriots in the government
are the members of the House of Representatives. Vote the senators out. No to
amnesty.

From: RenegadeRoy

There's no need to deport anyone. Just enforce existing public law, vigorously.
Illegal workers will repatriate on their own when there are no jobs for them
here. New arrivals will fall off, too, since there would be no work.

From: goomigration

In my humble opinion, before we can address the issue, we need to understand and
respect the immigration laws. Second, we need to first pay respect to people who
are legal residents in the U.S. These are the real heart and soul of the U.S.,
regardless of their race, color or nation of origin. Third, we need to address
the fundamental social issues, such as our health care, Social Security benefit,
our pension, education system, unemployment rate, inflation.

Online chats:

Wednesday:Mr. Roadshow (Gary Richards) Topic: Local traffic and highways.

Chat is from noon to 1 p.m.

Featured

content

Elections page: With the June primary less than two weeks away, find a wealth of
election information, including how the San Jose mayoral candidates stand on key

issues, positions of the Democratic

gubernatorial candidates, and coverage of ballot measures.
www.mercurynews.com/news

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

World news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 287 words

MEXICO

Powell: Border walls aren't complete answer

Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said Thursday that extending walls along
the U.S.-Mexico border will not solve the problem of illegal immigration.

``The Berlin Wall did not work perfectly and the wall that the Israelis are
putting up is not going to work perfectly,'' Powell said in Mexico City. ``So, a
wall alone is not the answer.''

An immigration measure approved by the U.S. Senate offers illegal immigrants a
chance at citizenship while extending fences along the border. The House passed
a measure making all illegal immigrants subject to felony charges. Negotiations
to reconcile the proposals have yet to begin.

Powell, speaking at a business conference, said any new barriers should include
gates and other entrances to provide easy access between both countries.

NIGERIA

Kidnapped oil workers freed by militants

Militants freed one Nigerian and five South Korean oil field workers Thursday,
letting the hostages go at the request of a jailed rebel leader.

The workers arrived by car at the office of the regional governor in the
southern oil hub of Port Harcourt late Thursday, a day after gunmen kidnapped
them from a natural gas plant during the latest attack on the African nation's
oil industry.

The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta first said it would free
the hostages only if the government released Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, a prominent
militant jailed last year on treason charges.

But the group said Dokubo-Asari, an ethnic Ijaw who wants autonomy for the
southern region around the oil-rich Niger River delta region, asked that the
detainees be released. It was not clear how or where Dokubo-Asari made the
appeal.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 9, 2006 Friday

High tech has little effect on border;
MIGRANTS STAY ONE STEP AHEAD OF SURVEILLANCE AND VIGILANCE

BYLINE: Richard Marosi, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 794 words


The immigrants jumped the border fence and darted behind heavy brush, unnoticed
by U.S. Border Patrol agents. But miles away in an air-conditioned control room,
their images appeared on a video screen.

A National Guard soldier watching the monitor radioed an agent and guided him
through a vast desert expanse, telling him to stop his vehicle on a narrow road.

``They're in the bushes,'' he told the agent, who jumped out and arrested about
a half-dozen immigrants.

Surveillance cameras that can peer miles into Mexico have become a principal
tool to defend the nation's largely unfenced 2,000-mile-long border.

Since the late 1990s, camera towers have been erected in many populated border
areas, from Calexico in California's Imperial Valley to Brownsville, Texas. Next
month, the San Diego area is scheduled to start camera operations on a volatile
six-mile stretch of border across from Tijuana.

Arizona's experience with the cameras, however, illustrates the
squeeze-and-bulge phenomenon of illegal immigration. When the Border Patrol
seals parts of the frontier with fences, technology and additional agents,
illegal immigration moves elsewhere.

The cameras helped produce a dramatic drop in illegal crossings in some border
towns, including Naco, Nogales and Douglas in southeastern Arizona.

But the flow across the state's border has not slowed. Much of it merely shifted
west to the Yuma area, the site President Bush chose to highlight his plans to
beef up border security and to admit the United States did ``not yet have full
control of the border.''

The region is now one of the busiest illegal immigration corridors in the
nation.

Apprehensions of immigrants have jumped 75 percent since 2001. Assaults against
agents also have surged, with smugglers even throwing rocks at a hovering
helicopter.

In San Luis, a small border town 20 miles south of Yuma, immigrants swarm across
the border in wild runs that overwhelm agents.

The prospect of a beefed-up border is welcomed by most law enforcement officials
and politicians in Arizona; concentrated efforts, they say, have made a
difference. But because of the ever-shifting nature of illegal immigration, many
are not convinced that more cameras and fences will reduce the flow.

``It hasn't gotten any better,'' said Tony Estrada, the sheriff in Santa Cruz
County in southeastern Arizona. ``They sealed up the urban areas, but now the
activity is in the rural areas.''

Five years ago, the busiest border-crossing route in Arizona went through
Douglas, a dusty town lying on a high plain in the southeast corner. Day and
night, hordes of immigrants jumped the rusty fence and ran into alleys and
neighborhoods.

``They even knocked on my door,'' said Mayor Ray Borane. ``They would want water
or want to use the phone.''

Today, the second-biggest Border Patrol station in the country -- housing more
than 500 agents -- sits on the highway into town, and more than a dozen towers
equipped with remote video surveillance cameras rise 60 feet above the streets
and surrounding desert. The number of apprehensions in the area patrolled by the
station has dropped from 262,000 in 2000 to 71,000 last year.

Border buildups in Naco and Nogales have cut migration flows through those
southeastern cities. Many agents and local law enforcement officials credit
additional staffing and high-technology tools, such as remote video surveillance
systems.

The cameras can keep an eye on dozens of miles of border. Equipped with infrared
capabilities, they can spot illegal crossers even at night. Thermal imaging
outlines their bodies behind bushes and other vegetation. The cameras can zoom
in on people climbing mountain trails five miles away.

The smugglers and immigrants know they are being watched; sometimes they wave
and make rude gestures at the cameras.

But hundreds of miles of the Arizona frontier do not have cameras or enough
agents, and that is where the immigrant flows have shifted. About 30 miles west
of Nogales, tens of thousands of immigrants cross an empty desert shadowed by
Baboquivari Mountain.

Apprehensions in the Yuma Border Patrol station, which covers San Luis and other
communities in southwest Arizona, jumped from 39,778 in 2002 to 78,014 last
year. So far this year, the figure is up 8 percent from 2005.

In San Luis, immigrants scale fences within yards of the official port of entry.
They gather by the dozens and rush across at the same time.

Although the Border Patrol installed cameras in the San Luis area a few years
ago, they have not made a significant difference because there are not enough
agents, city officials said.

``You see 50 to 60 people at a time, day or night, crossing and see one or two
Border Patrol agents trying to wrestle them down. They're outnumbered,'' said
Mayor Nieves Riedel.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Living the immigration debate;
UNDOCUMENTED STUDENT RECOUNTS HER STORY OF ACHIEVEMENT

BYLINE: Henry Barmeier, Read This! writer

SECTION: AE; Pg. TEN

LENGTH: 773 words


Lucila, a recent graduate of a San Jose high school, is an undocumented
immigrant. She and her family crossed the border in Tijuana six years ago.

Despite her legal status, she's been involved in a range of activities, from
tennis and badminton to Mexican folkloric dance. This fall, Lucila plans to
attend San Jose State University and become a literature teacher.

She's also found solidarity with others in the same situation. She volunteers
with Californians for Justice, an immigrant advocacy group, and took part in the
huge May Day immigration rights rally in San Jose last month.

Although her story is not unique, Lucila represents something often overlooked
in the immigration debate: the teenage voice. Here's her story:

What was it like crossing the border?

It was scary. We paid this guy who was supposed to go through the checkpoint
with all of us. I went through easily, but the American immigration officials
got my mom and put her in jail for two days. That actually happened twice. But
she got a fake ID and got in. It depends on your luck.

Why did your parents come to the United States?

The only reason they came here anyway was for me, so I could have a better
opportunity. Right now my dad works in construction and my mom works for a
company packing computer stuff.

How influenced are you by your Mexican heritage?

We only speak Spanish at my home. We try to live my culture as the way we lived
in Mexico. Also, dance folklorico ties me back to my culture.

What is it like, right now, to be a daughter of undocumented immigrants?

It's pretty harsh, and I think it's wrong that the government is trying to
penalize my parents. They should not be considered felons, because the only
thing they do is work hard and contribute to the economy and the United States.

Do you feel you are the target of racism or prejudice?

I have encountered racism before, but lately, no. I actually have the luck to
live in a community that is mainly Latinos. So, we understand what we've been
through. There was one time while I was in middle school, and this guy told me I
should go back to Mexico because I was a wetback or whatever. I just took it as
he was being dumb.

Did you come to the United States speaking English?

I came here only speaking Spanish, and I took summer school and learned to speak
English there. I just took one year of summer school. I learned so fast thanks
to this one great teacher I had.

How do you feel about making English the official language of the United States?

It is the first language in the U.S., but they should also keep the doors open
to new cultures, because someone who's closed-minded will never learn anything
else. languages, and more people will work harder to get educated, and that will
be a good thing. Being bilingual should not be something that's wrong. It should
be something that's really good, that you worked hard for.

What do you do with Californians for Justice?

Mainly we fight for equality in education. We fight to improve the low-privilege
schools so they can have the same kind of education as the rich schools. We also
promote bilingual education: every student who is bilingual and passes the AP
exam for Spanish or whatever other language will get a bilingual certification.

What was it like to participate in the May Day rallies?

It was nice to see all these people speaking their minds for one cause. It was
not only Latinos. I saw a lot of different races in there. It was a happy mood,
and everybody was not causing trouble. It really represented what we are. There
was no violence, only passion -- passion for what they want. You can't ignore
more than 100,000 people.

How do you hope the immigration debate is resolved in Congress?

For me, the best outcome would be to give papers to people who are working hard.
My parents work and, although they do it illegally, they still pay taxes. We're
not felons. We're making something good for America. It's nothing that will be
given for granted for them. It's something they work hard to get.

Are you and your family pursuing citizenship?

It all depends on the government and the bills they're trying to pass. Right
now, I could apply, and what if it fails? I'll have to go back and start all
over again.

What is the value of the immigrant population?

America is based on immigrants. Everybody is an immigrant because the only
natives are the native Americans. That's the culture of America -- that's what
makes America what it is now. It's a mixture of cultures; it's not just one
culture.

Henry Barmeier is a recent graduate of Saratoga High School. Because of Lucila's
family's immigration status, the Mercury News is withholding her last name.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

GOP grandstanding is no help;
HEARINGS DESIGNED TO RILE VOTERS WILL NOT PRODUCE EFFECTIVE BORDER REFORMS

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 349 words


As if the debate wasn't heated enough, House Republicans are heading to the
Southwest in August to add to the combustion over illegal immigration.

Their stated purpose is to hold hearings on the Senate's version of the
immigration bill. The real intent is to kill chances of a compromise and rile up
voters for the November election.

In the end, that may not be a winning strategy, but it is clearly a cheap move
-- and a slap at President Bush, who had put whatever is left of his political
muscle behind the Senate's bipartisan compromise.

The House's bill calls for building a 700-mile wall along the border with
Mexico, deporting immigrants here illegally, punishing companies that employ
them and potentially prosecuting those, like church workers, who aid them.

The Senate bill also would tighten border controls but it would create a system
of temporary work permits for foreign workers, plus a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants already here for years who pay fines and learn English.
Offering permanent residency is a practical way to entice millions of illegal
immigrants to come forward and register so that the government can effectively
enforce the new work permit system. The threat of mass deportation -- an
implausible scenario -- certainly won't.

The logic of a comprehensive approach will be lost at the upcoming hearings.
Capitol Hill hearings at least strive for balance. ``These hearings,'' as a
spokesman for House Majority Leader John Boehner euphemistically put it, ``are
going to be an effort to gather input on the troubling provisions'' in the
Senate bill.

Poll results of attitudes toward immigration have been all over the place,
depending on the buzzwords used and phrasing of the questions. Most Americans
want a tight border but don't want mass deportations. Most don't want blanket
``amnesty'' but do favor a comprehensive approach.

Republican leaders are confident that immigration is their ticket to November.
But they may find that voters lash back at those who created a stalemate instead
of a solution. They should be negotiating, not beating their chests.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday

Governor out to retake Latino voters;
IMMIGRATION DEBATE HAS BLED SUPPORT FROM RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Kate Folmar and Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words


In recent weeks, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has worked overtime to reclaim
support from Latino voters, seeking to shore up a key vulnerability as he seeks
a second term.

His latest outreach effort came Tuesday, when his campaign unveiled a list of
statewide supporters dubbed ``Hispanic Families for Arnold.'' On the same day,
he also appointed David Lopez of the National Hispanic University in San Jose to
the state board of education.

The Republican governor enjoyed unusually high support from Latinos in the 2003
recall election, but his popularity among that group plummeted after a series of
miscues -- praising the controversial Minutemen border patrollers and pursuing
what many considered an elitist agenda last year. He also angered some Latino
voters by vetoing bills that would grant driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants.

Even as Schwarzenegger has steered clear of the strident anti-illegal
immigration politics dominating Republicans nationally, recent polls have found
tepid Latino support for his re-election.

``He's not going to be re-elected if he doesn't get one-third of the Latino
vote; that's just simple mathematics'' and also about what Schwarzenegger earned
in 2003, said California Target Book co-editor Tony Quinn, who has analyzed
ethnic voting patterns for more than two decades. ``No Republican has won the
state for president or for governor without getting a third of the Latino
vote.''

Now, Schwarzenegger and his advisers are trying to make amends and carve new
inroads with the fastest-growing segment of the electorate, who make up about 19
percent of the state's voters.

The governor spoke at the National Council of La Raza convention over the
weekend in Los Angeles. In May, he and Democratic Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez
hosted Mexican President Vicente Fox in California, and he is planning a trade
mission to Mexico in August.

Schwarzenegger's campaign recently hired former Univisión political analyst
Arnoldo Torres, a past executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens.

Note to Angelides

The governor's recent outreach, said Louis DeSipio, an associate professor of
political science at the University of California-Irvine, should come as a
warning of sorts for Phil Angelides, the Democrat running against him in the
Nov. 7 election.

``Mr. Angelides, in his primary campaign, didn't really make much of an effort
at all to reach out to Latino voters,'' DeSipio said. ``If that pattern
continues to the general election, a third of the vote should be quite easy for
Gov. Schwarzenegger.''

A top aide in the Angelides campaign disputed that notion, listing a number of
high-profile Latino elected officials, such as Núñez, and union leaders who
stumped for Angelides. ``These are stellar elected officials who have the
credibility of the Hispanic community behind them,'' said Daniel Chavez, deputy
campaign manager.

Angelides enjoys an enviable lead among Latinos in early polling. A San Jose
State University survey released last week showed him leading Schwarzenegger 58
percent to 12 percent, while the Public Policy Institute of California showed
Angelides ahead 47 percent to 26 percent before the June primary was settled.
And Angelides enjoys the endorsements of big-name Latinos, such as United Farm
Workers icon Dolores Huerta.

Among the Latino business and political leaders standing with Schwarzenegger at
the first Hispanic Families for Arnold event in Southern California on Tuesday
was Leo Lacayo, a publicly elected member of the San Francisco Republican Party.

Had the campaign asked him to support Schwarzenegger a few weeks ago, Lacayo
would have declined because of a perception that the governor was being harsh
toward illegal immigrants. Now, he's excited to ``take the message forward.''

``The governor's had a complete change of heart in how he's addressed the
Hispanic community -- he's very strong on the message for a comprehensive
immigration reform act,'' Lacayo said.

A representative for the California Democratic Party classified Schwarzenegger's
effort as ``too little, too late.''

``More than anybody else, Latino voters are seeing through this whole charade,''
Roger Salazar said. ``They understand the only reason he's out there pandering
to them is because of how low he is in the polls among Latino voters.''

While courting Latinos, the governor is striking a careful balance. Tilt too far
in either direction and he could alienate Latino voters or drive off
conservative Republicans on issues such as illegal immigration.

He initially hesitated about sending the National Guard to help patrol the
Mexican border before cooperating. Over the objections of the GOP, the governor
tried unsuccessfully to include in the state budget some money for health
insurance for undocumented children, saying it was wrong to ``politicize'' kids.


Lasting resentment

Although Latinos are mostly registered as Democrats, they are known to side with
conservatives on some social issues, such as opposition to gay marriage. But the
California GOP is still struggling to overcome lingering resentment from
Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigrant measure passed by voters in 1994 but
largely invalidated by the courts.

This year, Schwarzenegger is touting an increase in school funding, a push to
expand health coverage for the uninsured and the Jessica's Law crackdown on
sexual predators.

``If you look at polls that show what Latino voters care about,'' said Gregory
Rodriguez, Irvine senior fellow with the New America Foundation, ``it's very
similar to what other voters care about: health care, education and crime.''

The governor is getting ``back to his roots'' on a number of fronts after last
year's failed special election, acknowledged senior campaign adviser Torres, who
chalked up some of the governor's past gaffes to a lack of ``good advice.''

Angelides, he hinted, cannot take Latinos for granted. ``We've got to have both
parties competing for our needs.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602 and read her at
the www.mercextra. com/politics blog.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 12, 2006 Wednesday

Governor out to retake Latino voters;
IMMIGRATION DEBATE HAS BLED SUPPORT FROM RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Kate Folmar and Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words


In recent weeks, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has worked overtime to reclaim
support from Latino voters, seeking to shore up a key vulnerability as he seeks
a second term.

His latest outreach effort came Tuesday, when his campaign unveiled a list of
statewide supporters dubbed ``Hispanic Families for Arnold.'' On the same day,
he also appointed David Lopez of the National Hispanic University in San Jose to
the state board of education.

The Republican governor enjoyed unusually high support from Latinos in the 2003
recall election, but his popularity among that group plummeted after a series of
miscues -- praising the controversial Minutemen border patrollers and pursuing
what many considered an elitist agenda last year. He also angered some Latino
voters by vetoing bills that would grant driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants.

Even as Schwarzenegger has steered clear of the strident anti-illegal
immigration politics dominating Republicans nationally, recent polls have found
tepid Latino support for his re-election.

``He's not going to be re-elected if he doesn't get one-third of the Latino
vote; that's just simple mathematics'' and also about what Schwarzenegger earned
in 2003, said California Target Book co-editor Tony Quinn, who has analyzed
ethnic voting patterns for more than two decades. ``No Republican has won the
state for president or for governor without getting a third of the Latino
vote.''

Now, Schwarzenegger and his advisers are trying to make amends and carve new
inroads with the fastest-growing segment of the electorate, who make up about 19
percent of the state's voters.

The governor spoke at the National Council of La Raza convention over the
weekend in Los Angeles. In May, he and Democratic Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez
hosted Mexican President Vicente Fox in California, and he is planning a trade
mission to Mexico in August.

Schwarzenegger's campaign recently hired former Univisión political analyst
Arnoldo Torres, a past executive director of the League of United Latin American
Citizens.

Note to Angelides

The governor's recent outreach, said Louis DeSipio, an associate professor of
political science at the University of California-Irvine, should come as a
warning of sorts for Phil Angelides, the Democrat running against him in the
Nov. 7 election.

``Mr. Angelides, in his primary campaign, didn't really make much of an effort
at all to reach out to Latino voters,'' DeSipio said. ``If that pattern
continues to the general election, a third of the vote should be quite easy for
Gov. Schwarzenegger.''

A top aide in the Angelides campaign disputed that notion, listing a number of
high-profile Latino elected officials, such as Núñez, and union leaders who
stumped for Angelides. ``These are stellar elected officials who have the
credibility of the Hispanic community behind them,'' said Daniel Chavez, deputy
campaign manager.

Angelides enjoys an enviable lead among Latinos in early polling. A San Jose
State University survey released last week showed him leading Schwarzenegger 58
percent to 12 percent, while the Public Policy Institute of California showed
Angelides ahead 47 percent to 26 percent before the June primary was settled.
And Angelides enjoys the endorsements of big-name Latinos, such as United Farm
Workers icon Dolores Huerta.

Among the Latino business and political leaders standing with Schwarzenegger at
the first Hispanic Families for Arnold event in Southern California on Tuesday
was Leo Lacayo, a publicly elected member of the San Francisco Republican Party.

Had the campaign asked him to support Schwarzenegger a few weeks ago, Lacayo
would have declined because of a perception that the governor was being harsh
toward illegal immigrants. Now, he's excited to ``take the message forward.''

``The governor's had a complete change of heart in how he's addressed the
Hispanic community -- he's very strong on the message for a comprehensive
immigration reform act,'' Lacayo said.

A representative for the California Democratic Party classified Schwarzenegger's
effort as ``too little, too late.''

``More than anybody else, Latino voters are seeing through this whole charade,''
Roger Salazar said. ``They understand the only reason he's out there pandering
to them is because of how low he is in the polls among Latino voters.''

While courting Latinos, the governor is striking a careful balance. Tilt too far
in either direction and he could alienate Latino voters or drive off
conservative Republicans on issues such as illegal immigration.

He initially hesitated about sending the National Guard to help patrol the
Mexican border before cooperating. Over the objections of the GOP, the governor
tried unsuccessfully to include in the state budget some money for health
insurance for undocumented children, saying it was wrong to ``politicize'' kids.


Lasting resentment

Although Latinos are mostly registered as Democrats, they are known to side with
conservatives on some social issues, such as opposition to gay marriage. But the
California GOP is still struggling to overcome lingering resentment from
Proposition 187, the anti-illegal immigrant measure passed by voters in 1994 but
largely invalidated by the courts.

This year, Schwarzenegger is touting an increase in school funding, a push to
expand health coverage for the uninsured and the Jessica's Law crackdown on
sexual predators.

``If you look at polls that show what Latino voters care about,'' said Gregory
Rodriguez, Irvine senior fellow with the New America Foundation, ``it's very
similar to what other voters care about: health care, education and crime.''

The governor is getting ``back to his roots'' on a number of fronts after last
year's failed special election, acknowledged senior campaign adviser Torres, who
chalked up some of the governor's past gaffes to a lack of ``good advice.''

Angelides, he hinted, cannot take Latinos for granted. ``We've got to have both
parties competing for our needs.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602 and read her at
the www.mercextra. com/politics blog.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              240 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 14, 2006 Friday

Latinos feel galvanized, poll says;
MANY BELIEVE BIAS HAS RISEN RECENTLY; `COMMON THREAT' SEEN

BYLINE: Darryl Fears, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 384 words


Latinos believe that discrimination has risen since the start of the
congressional debate over illegal immigration, according to a survey released
Thursday.

But they also think their group is more galvanized after the pro-immigration
marches that resulted from the debate, and many believe they are on the verge of
a major social movement, according to the survey by the Pew Hispanic Center.

``Nothing produces a sense of unity more than a common threat,'' said Roberto
Suro, the center's director. ``Feeling like you all face the same problem really
brings people together. You can see that happening in these results.''

In a departure from past polls, both native and foreign-born respondents said
they feel empowered to create change. Fifty-eight percent said they believe that
Latinos, though coming from a variety of national, ethnic, cultural and
political backgrounds, are working to reach similar political goals.

In a 2002 survey, nearly half said Latinos were not striving toward a common
political objective.

The new survey of 2,000 Latino adults was taken by telephone from June 5 to July
3. Results have a margin of error of plus or minus 3.8 percentage points.

The survey was described by the center as the first major opinion poll of the
Latino population since the policy debate and marches in April and May.

In December, Republicans and some Democrats in the House approved a plan to
build a wall at the Mexican border, increase patrols and work toward expelling
many of the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

Illegal immigrants and their supporters poured into the streets by the millions
for demonstrations. A bipartisan group of senators eventually introduced
legislation that would allow illegal immigrants to pay a fine and stay in the
United States while strengthening border enforcement. President Bush favored the
latter plan.

But Congress has yet to approve either plan.

More than half of Latinos -- 54 percent -- who responded to the Pew survey
reported discrimination, although the survey did not describe the kinds of bias
they encountered. Foreign-born Latinos who could be ousted from the country if
tough legislation against illegal immigrants in the House passes were far more
likely to say discrimination is a major problem.

The Dallas Morning News contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              241 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

Immigration compromise bid to debut today

BYLINE: Jim VandeHei and Charles Babington, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 701 words


In an attempt to strike a pre-election Republican compromise on immigration, two
conservative lawmakers will unveil a plan today that would allow most of the
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States a chance to work in
the United States legally but only after the government certifies that U.S.
borders have been sufficiently secured, two congressional aides said.

The proposal -- sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Rep. Mike
Pence of Indiana -- would pressure illegal immigrants to ``self-deport'' to
their home countries within two years of the law's enactment and apply for a new
kind of visa that would allow them to return to the United States quickly and
work legally if a job awaits them. They would have to work here for 17 years,
however, to be eligible for U.S. citizenship.

The plan, which has received mixed reviews from those briefed on it, is aimed at
unifying Republicans on an issue that has bitterly divided them for months and
threatened to damage the party in future elections.

The stringent rules for illegal immigrants are certain to draw bipartisan
opposition from those who favor a quicker and easier path to citizenship.
Additionally, conservatives who favor legislation to secure the border this year
and delay action on guest workers and the citizenship question also are expected
to oppose it.

The Washington Post was provided an advance copy of the proposal.

Hutchison and Pence consider it the foundation for a compromise between the
Senate, which voted for a plan that would provide a new path to citizenship, and
the House, which has demanded that Congress focus only on securing borders for
now. Former House Majority Leader Richard Armey, R-Texas, a critic of the Senate
bill, said the new proposal could be ``a bridge between the two bodies.''

Armey, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., and former Republican National
Committee chairman Ed Gillespie were briefed on the plan in hopes that they
would help build pressure on skeptical lawmakers, the aides said. White House
officials, including presidential adviser Karl Rove, have been told of the
framework but not the details. A Republican close to the White House said
President Bush ``won't be crazy about it, but I think he would sign it.''

The impasse will not be easy to break. The push for a pre-election compromise
has lost its sense of urgency, as both sides privately calculate that no deal
might be the best politics and produce the best policy.

Hutchison and Pence think they can bridge the divide. They will emphasize that
immigration laws will not be changed until the president certifies that the
borders are secure, the congressional aides said. The plan includes the most
popular security measures that have passed the House and Senate, including new
border fences, additional enforcement personnel and bigger detention facilities.

The government would spend about two years instituting the security changes.
U.S. companies would open Ellis Island-style centers in many countries to
process applications for a new kind of work visa, known as the Good Neighbor
SAFE (Secure Authorized Foreign Employee) visa. The government would create
tamper-proof identification cards that contain personal information and
biometric technology designed to minimize fraud. Illegal immigrants would be
required to return to their home countries and apply for the SAFE visa. They
would undergo criminal background checks and health screenings and would need to
prove that a U.S. job awaits them.

The new visa would be offered only to immigrants who came from countries that
are part of trade pacts covering Canada, Mexico and most of Central America. The
SAFE visas would be good for two years and could be renewed five times, for a
total stay of 12 years. At any point, the holders could return to their home
countries and apply for U.S. citizenship without paying a fine or back taxes.
But they would have to wait in line.

Illegal immigrants could extend their stay beyond 12 years by applying for a
five-year X-Change visa, which requires a job and a clean record. After 17 years
in the system, X-Change visa-holders could go through the citizenship process
without leaving the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              242 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday

Competing protests over immigration turn ugly

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words


The national debate on illegal immigration has erupted into fisticuffs and legal
trouble in an unlikely seat of political activism: a suburban street corner in
Fremont.

For the past three months, a group of seniors, war veterans, blue-collar workers
and students has taken to Fremont Boulevard and Mowry Avenue every other Friday
night to decry illegal immigration. But the rallies of the East Bay Coalition
for Border Security, as the 30 or so people are called, have drawn ire from
members of the International Socialist Organization and Green Party -- mostly
idealistic 20-somethings who drive in from San Francisco, Berkeley and Santa
Cruz to the counter protest.

On a recent Friday, a fight broke out between the two groups. Four men on the
border security side ended up with black eyes, chipped teeth and other injuries.
A police officer's ear was split and started bleeding. Six people were arrested.

Members of the two groups are now engaged in a war of words about who should be
blamed for the incident and why. But their clash has broader resonance, too, as
a reminder of just how emotional the immigration debate remains, even though it
has slipped at least temporarily from public attention.

``We are out there, a small group of middle-class Americans, carrying signs that
say, `Wake Up America,' and `No Amnesty,' and this international group of
socialists just comes and attacks us,'' said Mary Washington, 60, of Union City
and spokeswoman for the border security group, which formed in May.

Clash of ideas

Michael Smith, 27, an ISO spokesman studying geography at UC-Berkeley, says the
border security group is not simply a collection of ``old, hapless elderly
Republicans out there protesting illegal immigration.''

``Part of the reason we're going down to Fremont is to expose that,'' he said.

Months after the protests that drew hundreds of thousands of people across the
country this spring, the immigration debate has changed course -- and
demonstrations are infrequent. Aside from a small protest recently in Santa
Cruz, Fremont is the only Bay Area city where the border coalition has
campaigned -- and drawn counter-protesters.

In some ways, it is a logical battleground. With 210,000 residents, Fremont is a
quiet and family-oriented city, home to immigrants from all over the world,
including populations from India, Pakistan, Taiwan, Afghanistan and Mexico. It
also has pockets of old-timers, mostly white, some who resist change.

Because of the clash, the pro-border group now either wants to make secret
future rallies -- or stop rallying altogether. The ISO -- which supports the
anti-war movement in Iraq and the rights of all workers -- is now emboldened to
help legally defend those arrested.

Fremont police detective Bill Veteran, who witnessed the scene, said a small
group of pro-immigrant Fremont teens started the trouble, egged on by chants
from ISO members. Police say at least four of the group were gang members.

David Anaya, 18, Tony Rounds, 18, and two teenage boys -- a 16- and 17-year-old
--were arrested on misdemeanor battery charges. Michael Perry, 28, was arrested,
too, on an unrelated $1,000 traffic violation. His wife, Priscilla Perez-Perry,
26, was arrested on accusations of making threats and resisting arrest. All are
Fremont residents and have been released on bail.

Perez-Perry, who has three children ages 5 to 9, doesn't defend the violence,
but she says she understands why the clash got heated. She is a
fourth-generation Mexican-American, born and raised in Fremont. She said she
wasn't interested in the immigration issue until recently, when she began
researching it, and then joined up when the rallies were happening in her
hometown.

Fighting words

``I just wish none of this would have happened,'' she said. ``Both parties have
the right to say what they feel, but when you walk into a Latino neighborhood
and make racial slurs, like `Wetbacks go home,' just hearing that is really
sad.''

Perez-Perry said it may not have been prudent for her husband and his
acquaintances to protest on the same side of the street as the border security
people, but she also said her friends were being kicked and hit, too. Her
husband was hit on the head, she said, and the border security people laughed.

She said her husband was in a gang 18 or 19 years ago, but is not active now.
She doesn't know if the others are in gangs.

For her part, Washington, who describes herself as a Christian grandmother, said
the emotion comes from the threat that illegal immigration represents.

``I feel and think that strongly about the destruction of our nation, and the
life of its people,'' she said.

Washington said she's worried that Muslim proselytizing will enter this country
and convert people to ``radical Islam'' -- even among the predominantly Catholic
Mexicans who compose most of the nation's illegal immigrants.

Washington said she's been interested in the Middle East, and Islam, for more
than 50 years and has many Muslim friends.

``At the same time, special groups are given a pass for all sorts of
differences,'' Washington said. Some of those passes, she said, include:
``Slamming doors in my face, telling me I was a racist because I have blue eyes
and white skin, eating food out of the bins at the grocery store, running red
lights, driving badly, not speaking the language of the country, and getting
Fanny Mae loans interest-free because their religion forbids usury,'' because
Islam forbids the paying or receiving of interest.

The Fremont debate stems directly from what's happening in Washington, D.C. A
House immigration bill, passed in December, calls for building a 700-mile fence,
and hiring more Border Patrol agents. It also would make illegal-immigrant
status a felony. A competing immigration-reform bill in the Senate also calls
for increased enforcement, but would provide a path to citizenship for some
undocumented immigrants and for a closely monitored guest-worker program. A
compromise bill has not been reached.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              243 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday

Competing protests over immigration turn ugly

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words


The national debate on illegal immigration has erupted into fisticuffs and legal
trouble in an unlikely seat of political activism: a suburban street corner in
Fremont.

For the past three months, a group of seniors, war veterans, blue-collar workers
and students has taken to Fremont Boulevard and Mowry Avenue every other Friday
night to decry illegal immigration. But the rallies of the East Bay Coalition
for Border Security, as the 30 or so people are called, have drawn ire from
members of the International Socialist Organization and Green Party -- mostly
idealistic 20-somethings who drive in from San Francisco, Berkeley and Santa
Cruz to the counter protest.

On a recent Friday, a fight broke out between the two groups. Four men on the
border security side ended up with black eyes, chipped teeth and other injuries.
A police officer's ear was split and started bleeding. Six people were arrested.

Members of the two groups are now engaged in a war of words about who should be
blamed for the incident and why. But their clash has broader resonance, too, as
a reminder of just how emotional the immigration debate remains, even though it
has slipped at least temporarily from public attention.

``We are out there, a small group of middle-class Americans, carrying signs that
say, `Wake Up America,' and `No Amnesty,' and this international group of
socialists just comes and attacks us,'' said Mary Washington, 60, of Union City
and spokeswoman for the border security group, which formed in May.

Clash of ideas

Michael Smith, 27, an ISO spokesman studying geography at UC-Berkeley, says the
border security group is not simply a collection of ``old, hapless elderly
Republicans out there protesting illegal immigration.''

``Part of the reason we're going down to Fremont is to expose that,'' he said.

Months after the protests that drew hundreds of thousands of people across the
country this spring, the immigration debate has changed course -- and
demonstrations are infrequent. Aside from a small protest recently in Santa
Cruz, Fremont is the only Bay Area city where the border coalition has
campaigned -- and drawn counter-protesters.

In some ways, it is a logical battleground. With 210,000 residents, Fremont is a
quiet and family-oriented city, home to immigrants from all over the world,
including populations from India, Pakistan, Taiwan, Afghanistan and Mexico. It
also has pockets of old-timers, mostly white, some who resist change.

Because of the clash, the pro-border group now either wants to make secret
future rallies -- or stop rallying altogether. The ISO -- which supports the
anti-war movement in Iraq and the rights of all workers -- is now emboldened to
help legally defend those arrested.

Fremont police detective Bill Veteran, who witnessed the scene, said a small
group of pro-immigrant Fremont teens started the trouble, egged on by chants
from ISO members. Police say at least four of the group were gang members.

David Anaya, 18, Tony Rounds, 18, and two teenage boys -- a 16- and 17-year-old
--were arrested on misdemeanor battery charges. Michael Perry, 28, was arrested,
too, on an unrelated $1,000 traffic violation. His wife, Priscilla Perez-Perry,
26, was arrested on accusations of making threats and resisting arrest. All are
Fremont residents and have been released on bail.

Perez-Perry, who has three children ages 5 to 9, doesn't defend the violence,
but she says she understands why the clash got heated. She is a
fourth-generation Mexican-American, born and raised in Fremont. She said she
wasn't interested in the immigration issue until recently, when she began
researching it, and then joined up when the rallies were happening in her
hometown.

Fighting words

``I just wish none of this would have happened,'' she said. ``Both parties have
the right to say what they feel, but when you walk into a Latino neighborhood
and make racial slurs, like `Wetbacks go home,' just hearing that is really
sad.''

Perez-Perry said it may not have been prudent for her husband and his
acquaintances to protest on the same side of the street as the border security
people, but she also said her friends were being kicked and hit, too. Her
husband was hit on the head, she said, and the border security people laughed.

She said her husband was in a gang 18 or 19 years ago, but is not active now.
She doesn't know if the others are in gangs.

For her part, Washington, who describes herself as a Christian grandmother, said
the emotion comes from the threat that illegal immigration represents.

``I feel and think that strongly about the destruction of our nation, and the
life of its people,'' she said.

Washington said she's worried that Muslim proselytizing will enter this country
and convert people to ``radical Islam'' -- even among the predominantly Catholic
Mexicans who compose most of the nation's illegal immigrants.

Washington said she's been interested in the Middle East, and Islam, for more
than 50 years and has many Muslim friends.

``At the same time, special groups are given a pass for all sorts of
differences,'' Washington said. Some of those passes, she said, include:
``Slamming doors in my face, telling me I was a racist because I have blue eyes
and white skin, eating food out of the bins at the grocery store, running red
lights, driving badly, not speaking the language of the country, and getting
Fanny Mae loans interest-free because their religion forbids usury,'' because
Islam forbids the paying or receiving of interest.

The Fremont debate stems directly from what's happening in Washington, D.C. A
House immigration bill, passed in December, calls for building a 700-mile fence,
and hiring more Border Patrol agents. It also would make illegal-immigrant
status a felony. A competing immigration-reform bill in the Senate also calls
for increased enforcement, but would provide a path to citizenship for some
undocumented immigrants and for a closely monitored guest-worker program. A
compromise bill has not been reached.

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              244 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday

This family smashes that stereotype

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 255 words


For many immigrants, few things represent the American dream like a home of
their own. So it was a proud day for a Thai immigrant and her three adult
children when they pooled their resources to buy a five-bedroom, two-story home
in Sacramento last August.

But their success story is in jeopardy. Two of her children -- college graduates
who gave up promising careers in their homeland -- are illegal immigrants at
risk of deportation.

The family's story illustrates an often overlooked reality about immigration. A
common perception is that illegal immigrants are uneducated laborers with few
opportunities at home who gratefully take menial jobs in America. Yet, a quarter
of undocumented immigrants have at least some college education, with 15 percent
holding a bachelor's degree or better, according to a report by the Pew Hispanic
Center.

Their story also debunks another common assumption about undocumented
immigrants: The Thai family didn't cross the border illegally, but entered the
country with valid visas, like almost half of the nearly 12 million undocumented
immigrants living in the United States. A full 90 percent of illegal immigrants
who are not from Mexico or Central America are visitors who have overstayed
their visas, according to another Pew report.

Different backgrounds

Immigrants who enter with visas often don't have the same backgrounds as those
jumping the border, said Jeff Passel of the center.

``To get a tourist or student visa, you have to have assets and education and
look middle-class,'' he said.

Some who advocate curbing immigration, such as the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, favor scrutinizing education and other ``merits'' of
would-be immigrants. But when it comes to illegal immigrants, a FAIR spokesman
said all should be discouraged to stay and deported if caught.

``You shouldn't get a free pass if you've got a Ph.D.,'' said Ira Mehlman of
FAIR.

The Thai family members, who requested anonymity and are identified by their
nicknames, think America might be more welcoming if people know how eager and
able they are to make a contribution in their adopted home.

While the mother, Pini, and her youngest daughter are legal residents, her son
and older daughter are not.

``I know I can do so much for this country,'' said Linda, 29. ``We just want
America to give us a chance.''

She and her brother, Nick, 31, are among an estimated 1.5 million Asians living
illegally in the United States.

Undocumented Asian immigrants -- most of whom come from China, the Philippines
and India -- are rarely visible. They tend not to gather outside Home Depot
stores offering their labor, or to take orders at the counters of a fast-food
restaurant. Instead, many disappear into their ethnic enclaves, working in
kitchens or small businesses.

The Thai family's predicament underscores a deep problem in U.S. immigration
policy. Reuniting families is the foremost priority, with nearly 60 percent of
``green cards'' going to relatives of U.S. citizens or permanent residents in
2005. But legally reuniting with family members in the United States can take
decades. Families from Asia have the longest waits of any region -- up to 23
years for the Philippines, because of demand and visa limits assigned to each
country.

For Pini, eager to reunite with her children, her family is intact, but two of
her children are lawbreakers relegated to menial jobs despite their education
and skills.

The family didn't consider moving to America until 1998, when the Asian
financial crisis that crippled Southeast Asia ruined a once-thriving family
import business.

Pini, who is estranged from the father of her children, married a Thai-American
living in Bangkok. She came to California with him, but they have since
divorced. She filed immigration paperwork for Nina to immigrate, and her
daughter soon joined her. The application received priority because Nina was
under 21 at the time.

Pini found work as a preschool teacher in Richmond and planned to bring Nick and
Linda to the United States. She consulted an immigration lawyer and received
what she now knows is bad advice -- that her kids could arrive on a tourist
visa, and then file petitions to stay permanently.

Nick and Linda arrived at San Francisco's International Airport in 2001 on
tourist visas valid for six months. By the time they realized their immigration
lawyer had led them astray, they said, they had already broken the law by
overstaying their visas. Pini has since filed paperwork to request permanent
residency for Nick and Linda.

Low-paying jobs

Although they lacked work permits, they found jobs at Bay Area restaurants owned
by Asian immigrants. Their base pay was well beneath the minimum wage. Since
moving to Sacramento from the Bay Area two years ago, they've had a salary
increase: $50 for a 10-hour day.

All four family members work in restaurants. Despite the meager pay, they pool
their earnings to achieve family goals. Last year, they bought their $405,000
home.

Money is tight, and everyone contributes equally to pay the mortgage and bills.
But they also enjoy a few comforts that are classically American: a big,
flat-screen Panasonic television that hangs in a living room with modern decor,
and new kitchen appliances -- all purchased on credit.

Now, the family is scouting Sacramento for locations to open a restaurant. ``We
are working so hard, we might as well do it for ourselves,'' Linda said.

Price of success

But their success comes at a price. Linda, who earned a bachelor's degree in
business and wants to start an interior decorating business, said she and her
brother detest their jobs.

``Every day when I wipe a table or pick up money or clean someone's dishes, I
think `What am I doing with my life?' '' she said, her voice cracking.

The immigration debate fills them with both hope and fear. A House bill would
make illegal immigrants felons, and aiding them a crime. Many worry that even
family members could be prosecuted for sheltering undocumented relatives. So
once a month, Nick methodically checks the headlights of the family's cars to
make sure they function properly.

``I'm scared always,'' said Nick, who had worked as a translator for a Japanese
firm in Thailand. ``I don't like living like a criminal.''

The one thing that keeps him and Linda here is their family. ``Asian people, our
family is everything,'' said Nick. ``I have to take care of my mom. That's my
duty.''

Despite his filial obligations, Nick said he will return to Thailand next year
if his immigration status doesn't change.

But if Nick and Linda leave, the family faces another dilemma. Pini and Nina
wouldn't be able to afford their home. The responsibilities weigh heavily on
Nina, the youngest. She's the only sibling with a green card, and will become a
U.S. citizen next year. At 23, she still studies at a community college, between
working the lunch and dinner shifts.

Initially, the family pressured her to drop her art major and study something
``that makes money, like nursing,'' she said. Her family has eased off, yet she
feels the guilt. ``If I could, I would give Linda my green card,'' she said.
``She's smart. She's the smartest one.''

They say they want to make America home because they're no longer as Thai as
they used to be. Nick is a 49ers fan who dreams of joining the U.S. Navy.

``I think more like an American than a Thai person,'' Nick said. ``When I'm at
the mall, people assume I'm American. I like that. I wish that can be true.''

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              245 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 8, 2006 Tuesday

This family smashes that stereotype

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words


For many immigrants, few things represent the American dream like a home of
their own. So it was a proud day for a Thai immigrant and her three adult
children when they pooled their resources to buy a five-bedroom, two-story home
in Sacramento last August.

But their success story is in jeopardy. Two of her children -- college graduates
who gave up promising careers in their homeland -- are illegal immigrants at
risk of deportation.

The family's story illustrates an often overlooked reality about immigration. A
common perception is that illegal immigrants are uneducated laborers with few
opportunities at home who gratefully take menial jobs in America. Yet, a quarter
of undocumented immigrants have at least some college education, with 15 percent
holding a bachelor's degree or better, according to a report by the Pew Hispanic
Center.

Their story also debunks another common assumption about undocumented
immigrants: The Thai family didn't cross the border illegally, but entered the
country with valid visas, like almost half of the nearly 12 million undocumented
immigrants living in the United States. A full 90 percent of illegal immigrants
who are not from Mexico or Central America are visitors who have overstayed
their visas, according to another Pew report.

Different backgrounds

Immigrants who enter with visas often don't have the same backgrounds as those
jumping the border, said Jeff Passel of the center.

``To get a tourist or student visa, you have to have assets and education and
look middle-class,'' he said.

Some who advocate curbing immigration, such as the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, favor scrutinizing education and other ``merits'' of
would-be immigrants. But when it comes to illegal immigrants, a FAIR spokesman
said all should be discouraged to stay and deported if caught.

``You shouldn't get a free pass if you've got a Ph.D.,'' said Ira Mehlman of
FAIR.

The Thai family members, who requested anonymity and are identified by their
nicknames, think America might be more welcoming if people know how eager and
able they are to make a contribution in their adopted home.

While the mother, Pini, and her youngest daughter are legal residents, her son
and older daughter are not.

``I know I can do so much for this country,'' said Linda, 29. ``We just want
America to give us a chance.''

She and her brother, Nick, 31, are among an estimated 1.5 million Asians living
illegally in the United States.

Undocumented Asian immigrants -- most of whom come from China, the Philippines
and India -- are rarely visible. They tend not to gather outside Home Depot
stores offering their labor, or to take orders at the counters of a fast-food
restaurant. Instead, many disappear into their ethnic enclaves, working in
kitchens or small businesses.

The Thai family's predicament underscores a deep problem in U.S. immigration
policy. Reuniting families is the foremost priority, with nearly 60 percent of
``green cards'' going to relatives of U.S. citizens or permanent residents in
2005. But legally reuniting with family members in the United States can take
decades. Families from Asia have the longest waits of any region -- up to 23
years for the Philippines, because of demand and visa limits assigned to each
country.

For Pini, eager to reunite with her children, her family is intact, but two of
her children are lawbreakers relegated to menial jobs despite their education
and skills.

The family didn't consider moving to America until 1998, when the Asian
financial crisis that crippled Southeast Asia ruined a once-thriving family
import business.

Pini, who is estranged from the father of her children, married a Thai-American
living in Bangkok. She came to California with him, but they have since
divorced. She filed immigration paperwork for Nina to immigrate, and her
daughter soon joined her. The application received priority because Nina was
under 21 at the time.

Pini found work as a preschool teacher in Richmond and planned to bring Nick and
Linda to the United States. She consulted an immigration lawyer and received
what she now knows is bad advice -- that her kids could arrive on a tourist
visa, and then file petitions to stay permanently.

Nick and Linda arrived at San Francisco's International Airport in 2001 on
tourist visas valid for six months. By the time they realized their immigration
lawyer had led them astray, they said, they had already broken the law by
overstaying their visas. Pini has since filed paperwork to request permanent
residency for Nick and Linda.

Low-paying jobs

Although they lacked work permits, they found jobs at Bay Area restaurants owned
by Asian immigrants. Their base pay was well beneath the minimum wage. Since
moving to Sacramento from the Bay Area two years ago, they've had a salary
increase: $50 for a 10-hour day.

All four family members work in restaurants. Despite the meager pay, they pool
their earnings to achieve family goals. Last year, they bought their $405,000
home.

Money is tight, and everyone contributes equally to pay the mortgage and bills.
But they also enjoy a few comforts that are classically American: a big,
flat-screen Panasonic television that hangs in a living room with modern decor,
and new kitchen appliances -- all purchased on credit.

Now, the family is scouting Sacramento for locations to open a restaurant. ``We
are working so hard, we might as well do it for ourselves,'' Linda said.

Price of success

But their success comes at a price. Linda, who earned a bachelor's degree in
business and wants to start an interior decorating business, said she and her
brother detest their jobs.

``Every day when I wipe a table or pick up money or clean someone's dishes, I
think `What am I doing with my life?' '' she said, her voice cracking.

The immigration debate fills them with both hope and fear. A House bill would
make illegal immigrants felons, and aiding them a crime. Many worry that even
family members could be prosecuted for sheltering undocumented relatives. So
once a month, Nick methodically checks the headlights of the family's cars to
make sure they function properly.

``I'm scared always,'' said Nick, who had worked as a translator for a Japanese
firm in Thailand. ``I don't like living like a criminal.''

The one thing that keeps him and Linda here is their family. ``Asian people, our
family is everything,'' said Nick. ``I have to take care of my mom. That's my
duty.''

Despite his filial obligations, Nick said he will return to Thailand next year
if his immigration status doesn't change.

But if Nick and Linda leave, the family faces another dilemma. Pini and Nina
wouldn't be able to afford their home. The responsibilities weigh heavily on
Nina, the youngest. She's the only sibling with a green card, and will become a
U.S. citizen next year. At 23, she still studies at a community college, between
working the lunch and dinner shifts.

Initially, the family pressured her to drop her art major and study something
``that makes money, like nursing,'' she said. Her family has eased off, yet she
feels the guilt. ``If I could, I would give Linda my green card,'' she said.
``She's smart. She's the smartest one.''

They say they want to make America home because they're no longer as Thai as
they used to be. Nick is a 49ers fan who dreams of joining the U.S. Navy.

``I think more like an American than a Thai person,'' Nick said. ``When I'm at
the mall, people assume I'm American. I like that. I wish that can be true.''

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              246 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 10, 2006 Thursday

Immigration political fray;
DEMOCRATS BLAST TOWN-HALL MEETINGS BY GOP TASK FORCE

BYLINE: Steve Geissinger, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 537 words


Republican legislative leaders Wednesday announced that a new task force will
hold a series of anti-illegal immigration town-hall meetings throughout the
state -- a move that drew attacks and questions of legality from Democrats.

A Republican spokesman said the task force hopes to ``give voice'' to those who
haven't been heard on the issue, avoid a ``shouting match'' with immigrant
advocates and pressure the Legislature to act on illegal-immigration problems.

About a half-dozen meetings are expected beginning this month, before the
Legislature's scheduled end of its 2005-06 session Aug. 31. The
Democrat-dominated Legislature is debating a handful of measures related to
illegal immigration as it wraps up for the year. A general election looms Nov.
7, as well.

The meetings are scheduled to continue through the end of the year, from Redding
to San Diego, and GOP leaders said they hope the sessions will lead to the
introduction of a major immigration-reform legislative package next year.

A spokesman for the Democratic Assembly speaker charged that Republicans are
trying to inflame a sensitive issue at a critical time, using an unprecedented,
one-party panel that may violate legislative rules and fair political practice
laws -- assertions dismissed by the GOP.

Assembly Republican Leader George Plescia of San Diego said he had appointed
Assemblyman Chuck DeVore of Irvine as chairman of the Republican Task Force on
Illegal Immigration and asked him to gather information on the full impact of
the problem from the local perspective.

``DeVore is leading California's fight against illegal immigration,'' Plescia
said. ``As a lieutenant colonel in the California National Guard, DeVore has
participated firsthand in the Guard's efforts to secure our border.''

Earlier this year, DeVore led the boycott of Mexican President Vicente Fox's
speech before the state Legislature.

``Illegal immigration costs California taxpayers over $10 billion per year,''
said DeVore. ``This task force will further quantify the impact that illegal
immigration has on California and propose real solutions to this devastating
problem.''

Assemblywoman Audra Strickland, R-Westlake Village, will co-chair the task
force.

Steve Maviglio, a spokesman for Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles,
dismissed the task force as ``self-appointed vigilantes'' and added: They are
doing ``exactly what their Republican counterparts in Washington are doing about
immigration -- pitting Americans against each other instead of taking action.''

Nationally, Democrats have leveled the same charges at GOP House members who
have held a similar series of town-hall meetings on illegal immigration around
the United States.

State GOP lawmakers ``should channel their frustration at a Republican president
and the governor who helped elect him instead of orchestrating phony politically
driven and self-promotion media events,'' Maviglio said.

Democrats also questioned whether GOP lawmakers have the authority to create a
partisan panel using state funds. The announcement of the task force's creation
was sent from DeVore's state Capitol office, listing legislative aide John Hrabe
as a contact.

Contact Steve Geissinger at sgeissinger @angnewspapers.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              247 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday

Illegal immigration count: 11 million and rising in U.S.

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 117 words


About 11 million immigrants were living illegally in the United States at the
start of this year, the federal government said in a report Friday.

That's up from an estimated 8.5 million in January 2000, according to the Office
of Immigration Statistics in the Department of Homeland Security.

The office estimated that 10.5 million illegal immigrants were in the United
States in January 2005.

Estimates of the size of the illegal immigrant population vary widely, depending
on the political leanings of groups using them.

The federal government acknowledged the difficulty of getting an accurate count
in its report, saying estimates involve assumptions and combinations of data.

A Homeland Security representative could not be reached immediately.

In March, the non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center used Census Bureau data to
estimate that the United States had 11.1 million illegal immigrants in March
2005. The center used monthly population estimates to project a total of 11.5
million to 12 million in March.

Most unauthorized immigrants are from Mexico, with nearly 6 million in the
United States in 2005, the government said. El Salvador, Guatemala, India and
China followed with about 1.4 million illegal immigrants altogether.

The greatest increase in illegal immigrants in the country was among Mexicans, a
jump of 260,000 from 2000 to 2005.

California had the largest illegal immigrant population, with 2.8 million in
January 2005, followed by Texas with 1.4 million and Florida with 850,000.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              248 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 19, 2006 Saturday

Illegal immigration count: 11 million and rising in U.S.

BYLINE: Suzanne Gamboa, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 989 words


About 11 million immigrants were living illegally in the United States at the
start of this year, the federal government said in a report Friday.

That's up from an estimated 8.5 million in January 2000, according to the Office
of Immigration Statistics in the Department of Homeland Security.

The office estimated that 10.5 million illegal immigrants were in the United
States in January 2005.

Estimates of the size of the illegal immigrant population vary widely, depending
on the political leanings of groups using them.

The federal government acknowledged the difficulty of getting an accurate count
in its report, saying estimates involve assumptions and combinations of data.

A Homeland Security representative could not be reached immediately.

In March, the non-partisan Pew Hispanic Center used Census Bureau data to
estimate that the United States had 11.1 million illegal immigrants in March
2005. The center used monthly population estimates to project a total of 11.5
million to 12 million in March.

Most unauthorized immigrants are from Mexico, with nearly 6 million in the
United States in 2005, the government said. El Salvador, Guatemala, India and
China followed with about 1.4 million illegal immigrants altogether.

The greatest increase in illegal immigrants in the country was among Mexicans, a
jump of 260,000 from 2000 to 2005.

California had the largest illegal immigrant population, with 2.8 million in
January 2005, followed by Texas with 1.4 million and Florida with 850,000.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              249 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday

Governor appeals to conservatives on immigration;
HE SPEAKS BEFORE CALIFORNIA REPUBLICANS

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 477 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger swiped at his Democratic opponent in a speech before
California Republicans on Saturday, seeking to convince any doubters that he is
the better choice on immigration and taxes.

Even though Schwarzenegger enjoys a comfortable lead over challenger Phil
Angelides in early polling, some conservatives object to his recent overtures to
Democrats. And many consider his moderate views on immigration too wishy-washy.

He tried to assuage those concerns during a lunchtime speech to 700 of the GOP
faithful at the Hyatt Regency Century Plaza. His take: Angelides holds even less
stringent views on immigration.

``Now my opponent wants to pull the National Guard off the border. He wants to
give undocumented workers California driver's licenses. His policies are
disastrous,'' Schwarzenegger said. ``On immigration, the choice is clear. We say
no to weakening our borders and yes to reforming our badly broken immigration
system and yes to securing our borders.''

Talk radio ire

The governor neglected to mention that he favors health care for all children,
including illegal immigrants, or that he recently said he was startled by the
``intensity of prejudice'' that swirls around the immigration debate. That talk
has infuriated some conservatives and fueled talk radio ire.

In a conference call shortly after the governor's speech, Angelides lashed out
at Schwarzenegger for ``injecting divisiveness in this race'' by stoking the
flames of immigration for political gain.

``He's raising immigration and trying to set me apart on this issue from him for
political purposes,'' Angelides said. The governor ``implies that I want to pull
the National Guard off the border. That's true, but, as you know, I want the
federal government to do its job'' on border security.

In truth, immigration only dominated a minute or so of the governor's talk. But
it was a departure from his usual shtick: joking about the Kennedy family,
reciting his accomplishments and railing against Angelides on taxes.

Schwarzenegger never mentioned Angelides by name, but said his opponent ``has
never met a tax he doesn't like or a tax he won't hike.''

The governor, Angelides replied, is making ``false claims'' and using a ``phony
number'' on taxes.

During his talk, the governor hinted at what he might do with a second term. He
hopes to tackle health care costs and access if re-elected. He mentioned
creating a system where parents could comparison-shop for the best schools
online. He also spoke about waging ``war'' on rampant methamphetamine abuse in
the Central Valley.

``This time, I ask you to support me not as an act of faith like three years ago
but as an act of confidence,'' he said. ``Confidence in what we have
accomplished and confidence in what we will accomplish.''

Barb at Angelides

The governor directed an overt barb at Angelides' past as a developer.

``I think it's very important not to demonize our opponent,'' Schwarzenegger
said, ``because after Nov. 7, we will wish him well as he returns to a
successful career in real estate.''

Despite the governor's many attempts to shore up support, Eva and Rick Nagler of
Manhattan Beach personified the split Schwarzenegger inspires in his party.

Eva Nagler, an immigrant from Hungary, thinks Schwarzenegger is too soft on
immigration and too accommodating of Democrats. She will vote for him
reluctantly.

``He's very lucky as a Republican that Democrats made this disastrous
decision,'' of nominating Angelides, she said. ``He knows Republicans have
nowhere to go. So he's been slapping conservatives in the face since the special
election.''

Rick Nagler, who switched his registration from Democrat to Republican in 2004,
will vote for Schwarzenegger happily, based on his fiscal and immigration
stances.

Schwarzenegger is ``trying to be a consensus governor,'' he said. ``Given that
this is a Democratic state, maybe that's the right way to go.''

Contact Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602 and read her at
the www.mercextra.com/politics blog.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              250 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 25, 2006 Friday

Leaders unusually focused on security, immigration

BYLINE: Miguel Bustillo, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 601 words


The governors of California, Texas, Arizona and New Mexico made stopping illegal
immigration a central theme at their annual meeting Thursday with governors from
Mexico's border states.

The focus on illegal immigration at a gathering typically dominated by
non-confrontational topics such as boosting trade and cleaning up the
environment demonstrated the increasing desire of U.S. politicians to show that
they are doing something to address the issue in an election year.

``We had some serious discussions in the private meeting. Border security issues
were at the top of the list,'' said Texas Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican who has
been touting tougher measures against illegal immigration as he campaigns for
re-election.

However, even the ceremonial speeches by regional leaders from the two countries
were marked by differences over how to make the border more secure, a
politically volatile issue on both sides of the frontier.

``The immigration problem is not one that is born on our border,'' said Gov.
Eduardo Bours Castelo of the Mexican state of Sonora. ``What we need is to
improve economic opportunities throughout our country.''

California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and New Mexico Gov. Bill
Richardson, a Democrat, introduced a resolution calling for all 10 U.S. and
Mexican border governors to fight criminality along the border, including drug
smuggling and illegal immigration, instead of waiting for their federal
governments to do the job.

At the same time, the resolution called for the governors to stand against the
prolonged presence of the National Guard along the border, and said it was the
responsibility of federal leaders in Mexico and the United States to address the
economic roots of illegal immigration.

Perry and Schwarzenegger also used the event to ask the federal government to
continue increasing border security funding, saying that bolstering the law
enforcement presence on the U.S. side is clearly showing results.

The annual conference of the four U.S. and six Mexican governors -- from the
states of Sonora, Baja California, Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León and
Tamaulipas -- who share the U.S.-Mexico border are typically sleepy affairs. But
this year's event in the Texas capital, taking place Thursday and today, is
somewhat different, because of election-year politics and the nation's renewed
emphasis on illegal immigration.

The head of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Michael Chertoff, was
greeted as a guest of honor during the opening ceremony inside the wood-paneled
chambers of the Texas Senate, and reiterated President Bush's push to add 6,000
additional Border Patrol agents over the next two years. He called on the border
governors to continue cooperating to stop illegal immigration.

``These groups try to operate in the shadows between our governments,'' Chertoff
said of human-smugglers, adding, ``By working together we are seeing real
progress in apprehending these men.''

Immediately afterward, Juan Bosco Martí, the director of North American
relations in Mexico's Foreign Ministry, sought to clarify that the Mexican
government was acting to stop illegal immigration. But he also made clear that
it believed the path to slowing illegal immigration was through economic
improvements in his country, and he promoted building more ports of entry and
other tools to increase trade.

``More bridges and fewer walls are needed,'' he said.

While the event was largely peaceful, the California Nurses Association, one of
the governor's most dogged political opponents, protested a noon Schwarzenegger
fundraiser at the Four Seasons Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              251 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Student aid bill at final hurdle;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WOULD GET LOANS

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words


A controversial bill that would allow illegal immigrants to get state financial
aid while attending California's public colleges and universities is now in the
hands of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has until the end of this month to sign
or veto.

The bill's author, state Sen. Gil Cedillo, D-Los Angeles, called on the governor
Wednesday to ``invest in California's future'' by signing SB 160, also called
the California DREAM Act, into law. Opponents say the state should not give
money to lawbreakers.

While Schwarzenegger has not taken a position on the bill, he has previously
shown some inclination to extend state support to the children of illegal
immigrants.

The governor has supported an existing state law, passed in 2002, which now
allows undocumented students in California to pay in-state tuition rates in
public colleges and universities. Tuition for non-California residents is about
10 times higher.

Earlier this year, Schwarzenegger unsuccessfully tried to boost funding for
health care programs for children who are here illegally. He has said that
children cannot choose where they live and therefore their fate shouldn't be
politicized.

The governor declined to say whether he would apply the same reasoning to the
financial aid bill.

``You have to see the way it is written,'' he said at an unrelated bill-signing
ceremony Wednesday. ``That is why I say I have to really look at it when it
comes down to my desk. Then I can address that.''

The Legislature approved SB 160 on Aug. 31, voting largely along party lines
with Democrats in support. If it becomes law, undocumented students who graduate
from California high schools would be eligible to compete for state financial
aid. Students attending state community colleges could apply to have their fees
waived.

The program could cost the state's public college and university systems an
estimated $7.3 million annually, according to legislative analysts.

``These students, among the best and the brightest young minds in our state,
should not be punished for their parents' pursuit of greater opportunities,''
Cedillo said at a news conference in Los Angeles, where he was joined by
representatives of civic, education, legal and immigrant groups that support the
measure.

Federal legislation known as the DREAM Act, now pending in Congress and approved
by the Senate in May, would go one step further: It proposes to give illegal
immigrant students a chance to become legal residents, apply for federal aid and
grants, and eventually become citizens.

An estimated 65,000 undocumented students graduate each year from U.S. high
schools.

The state bill was slammed by the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
national group that calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration.

``We have a crumbling infrastructure, a failing educational system, a collapsing
public health system,'' said FAIR spokesman Ira Mehlman, ``and California
legislators spend most of their time dreaming up public benefits for illegal
aliens.

``This rewards people who broke the law,'' he said, ``and punishes people who
have played by the rules.''

In contrast, educators and labor and business groups in Silicon Valley and
across the state have endorsed SB 160.

Hector Vega, 18, a Santa Clara University student and illegal immigrant whose
story was in the Mercury News last month, said the bill ``is a huge step and a
good beginning'' in helping resolve the uncertain lives of undocumented
students. He is attending SCU on a full private scholarship funded by the
Jesuits.

Eight years ago, Neidi Dominguez, 18, a sophomore at the University of
California-Santa Cruz, came to the United States from Cuernavaca, Mexico. She
was 10. Like Vega, Dominguez is an illegal immigrant. She's paying for school
with help from individual donors from immigrant non-profit groups in Pasadena.

``This is not an issue of giving financial aid,'' Dominguez said. ``It's an
opportunity to apply like everybody else.''

Rosa Perez, chancellor of San Jose-Evergreen Community College District, said
the financial cost of SB 160 is small compared with the social cost of
abandoning the educations of children of illegal immigrants.

``These kids, for all intents and purposes, are American kids,'' Perez said.
``We've got to help them. If we ignore them, we'll undereducate them and they'll
remain on the margins. That's a loss to the country.''

Mercury News Staff Writers Kate Folmar and Edwin Garcia contributed to this
report. Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408)
920-5794.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              252 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Port security measure tied up in Senate

Ports security legislation that most senators agree would make the country safer
was stuck Tuesday in election-year politics as Republicans threatened to scrap
it if Democrats forced in a wide range of provisions.

Facing an impasse, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist set a Thursday deadline to
vote on the bill that was earlier considered a sure thing.

The Democratic plan ``will kill the bill,'' said Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska.
``We have a bipartisan bill to start with. . . . All these amendments are just
coming out of the sewer right now. There's just too many of them, and they're
just nothing but attempts to block this bill.''

Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid said his plan would also bolster security on
trains and buses and at chemical plants, strengthen U.S. intelligence missions
overseas and approve all of the Sept. 11 commission's recommendations, half of
which still are undone.

Republicans agree on border-only action

Congress should take tough steps to stop the flow of illegal immigrants, House
Republicans agreed Tuesday, while putting off the question of whether
undocumented workers already in the country should be given a path toward legal
status.

A Republicans-only forum on border security confirmed the House's rejection of
the Senate approach of combining enhanced border security with creation of a
guest-worker program and a means for illegal immigrants to move toward eventual
legal status.

The purpose of the forum was to share results from 22 hearings Republicans held
in 13 states during the August recess to press the importance of the border
security issue. House Republicans initiated the hearings as it became apparent
that compromise with the Senate on a more comprehensive bill would be unlikely
to clear Congress this year.

Higher basic premium on Medicare horizon

The basic Medicare premium will rise next year to $93.50 a month, an increase of
$5, the Bush administration announced Tuesday. It said more affluent
beneficiaries would have to pay a new surcharge, from $12.50 to $68.60 a month,
depending on their incomes.

The surcharge applies to 1.5 million people with annual incomes exceeding
$80,000 for individuals or $160,000 for married couples filing joint tax
returns.

No single syndrome affecting Gulf War vets

An expert panel reviewing hundreds of studies has concluded there is no single
``Gulf War syndrome'' afflicting thousands of veterans of the first war in Iraq,
although they have suffered symptoms at a higher rate than other veterans.

They also have experienced post-traumatic stress disorder and depression two to
three times more frequently than other veterans, the panel found.

``We can't identify a Gulf War syndrome,'' said Lynn Goldman, a physician and
epidemiologist who headed the 13-member committee appointed by the National
Academies Institute of Medicine.

Previous blue-ribbon panels, including several convened by the Institutes of
Medicine, one by the Defense Department, and one by the White House under Bill
Clinton, reached the same conclusion.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              253 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 21, 2006 Thursday

Senate takes up border fence proposal;
HOUSE WANTS PHOTO ID AT POLLS TO DETER ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 637 words


Republicans pushing for tougher means to stem illegal immigration got a boost
Wednesday when the Senate agreed to consider a bill that would build a 700-mile
fence along the U.S.-Mexico border and the House approved a measure that would
require voters to show photo identification at the polls.

Democrats dismissed the moves as political ploys aimed at the November midterm
elections, in which many Republicans are making immigration a top issue.

``What we are doing here today is about November,'' said Senate Minority Leader
Harry Reid, D-Nev., in reference to the fence bill.

In often fiery debate on the House voting bill, Democrats argued that there is
no data to show that illegal immigrants vote, and that the bill would
disenfranchise poor, elderly and minority citizens who tend to back the
Democratic Party.

Republicans countered that the voting measure was necessary.

``We have 12 million illegal aliens in this country. Many of them, we believe,
have been voting illegally,'' said Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind. ``Every illegal vote
takes away the right of one American's vote.''

The voter ID is unlikely to become law anytime soon, as the Senate is not
expected to consider the bill this session.

Since the House and Senate failed to agree on an immigration compromise this
summer, House Republicans have insisted on the need to pass enforcement measures
before broader changes are made. The enforcement-first approach appears to have
won out, with some Senate Republicans who backed broader reform now echoing
their House colleagues on the need to take up enforcement first and pass the
fence bill, which cleared the House on Sept. 14.

``The Secure Fence Act will have a significant impact on our security,'' said
Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. He also stressed that ``this is not
enforcement only, this is enforcement first.''

But Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., who helped write parts of the Senate bill, said
pursuing enforcement first could undermine support for a broader reorganization
of the immigration system. ``For those who think there's no need to do more,
there would be little impetus'' to consider broader reform, Martinez said.

House leaders are expected to introduce three other immigration bills today that
emphasize other aspects of enforcement.

One would affirm the ``inherent authority'' of state and local law enforcement
to assist in enforcing immigration law. A second bill would allow the government
to indefinitely detain immigrants who had served a sentence for a crime but who
cannot be deported, and deport or forbid entry to anyone officials have reason
to believe belongs to a gang, whether that person has committed a crime or not.
A third would make it a criminal offense to build cross-border tunnels.

On the fence bill, the Senate voted 94-0 to consider whether to begin debate.
The measure would require stretches of double-layered fencing, vehicle barriers
and ground sensors covering one-third of the 2,000-mile southern border. It also
would require the Department of Homeland Security to certify the border was
secure within 18 months of the bill's implementation.

Frist said he would like to begin debate on the fence measure today and that he
had not decided whether to allow senators the chance to add amendments.

California Sen. Dianne Feinstein said she would like to add an agricultural
guest-worker program to help California farmers who are having difficulty
finding workers to harvest their crops.

House debate on the photo identification measure was intense and heated. Rep.
Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, ridiculed the suggestion that illegal immigrants try to
sneak into the polls. ``Illegal aliens are sneaking across the border for a job,
not to vote,'' she said, arguing that requirements for photo identification are
expensive enough to keep away the poor and some minorities.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              254 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 22, 2006 Friday

House OKs 3 more bills aimed at border security;
EASIER DEPORTING OF GANG MEMBERS

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words


The House on Thursday approved three new bills targeting illegal immigration,
including one that would make it a crime to tunnel underneath U.S. borders and
another making it easier to deport gang members who are not citizens.

The action followed House approval last week of a proposed 700-mile fence along
the border with Mexico -- legislation the Senate is now debating -- and passage
earlier this week of a bill meant to prevent illegal immigrants from voting.

The measures stem from the push by House Republican leaders for the federal
government to focus on securing the nation's border before dealing with other
immigration-related issues.

House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, hailed Thursday's bills as evidence
that GOP lawmakers ``are serious about securing our border and enforcing our
law.''

Boehner said the bills could be on President Bush's desk ``in a matter of
weeks.''

But a key GOP senator cast doubt on the prospects of the House measures,
questioning the wisdom of enacting enforcement-oriented legislation without
grappling with the citizenship status of illegal immigrants in the United States
or calls by the business community for a guest-worker program.

``I don't see how we can deal with the immigration issue on a piecemeal basis,''
said Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

A majority of senators have supported the more sweeping rewrite of immigration
policy endorsed by President Bush. And Specter expressed concern that House
leaders would have little incentive to negotiate other immigration-related
matters in the future ``if we take care of all of their priorities and none of
the Senate's.''

Congressional Democrats, meanwhile, emphasized their opposition to the House
approach at an annual Capitol Hill summit with Latino leaders.

``Republicans claim to be on the side of Hispanics, but their record doesn't
match their rhetoric,'' said Sen. Robert Menendez, D-N.J.

The decision by House Republicans to back border security and more aggressive
enforcement of existing immigration laws while avoiding talks over establishing
a guest-worker program or creating a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants
is in part designed to motivate the party's conservative base in an election
year.

The question among political analysts in both parties is whether the strategy
could earn the GOP short-term gains in November at the expense of the party's
longer term fortunes. Latinos are the fastest-growing segment of the U.S.
population and are expected to comprise about one-quarter of the population by
2050.

Most of the legislation that cleared the House on Thursday had been approved
previously by the chamber as part of a single bill it passed in December.

One of the new measures would authorize the indefinite detention of some illegal
immigrants, a move that would overturn two Supreme Court decisions declaring
that practice unlawful. The bill would also bar gang members from entering the
country and allow the Department of Homeland Security to quickly deport
non-citizens if it believes they are gang members.

A second bill would speed the ability of immigration officers to deport people
and limit their access to appeal. The third bill would impose a 20-year prison
sentence on anyone who digs a tunnel under a U.S. border.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              255 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 28, 2006 Thursday

State Republicans' forum focuses on illegal immigrants;
EFFORT MEANT TO HELP BUILD LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, MediaNews Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 787 words


Under pressure from constituents angry with the state and federal government's
failure to curtail illegal immigration, a panel of Republican legislators
Wednesday convened the first in a series of town hall meetings to focus
attention on the divisive issue.

The panel came to this conservative-leaning bedroom community in Ventura County
to ask local activists, residents and elected officials their thoughts on
reducing illegal immigration -- and they left with a mixed list of ideas as well
as complaints.

Among the complaints: Mexicans shouldn't be allowed to fly their country's flag
in the United States, and the rising population of illegal immigrants is bad for
the environment because more toilets have to be flushed.

Among the suggestions: Cities should enforce housing laws to ease crowding in
neighborhoods, and communities need to clamp down on the things that attract
illegal immigrants

``If there's no jobs, no housing, no cars,'' said Steve Frank, a Simi Valley
consultant who compiles a conservative blog for more than 200,000 subscribers,
``illegal aliens will go home.''

The forum, sponsored by the California State Assembly's Republican Task Force on
Illegal Immigration, comes at a time when statewide public-opinion surveys rank
immigration as the top issue facing voters.

Congressional Republicans held similar town halls over the summer in Southern
California.

The forum also comes at the end of a two-year legislative session in which
Republican lawmakers proposed more than two dozen ways to clamp down on illegal
immigrants, only to see their measures struck down by the Democratic-controlled
Legislature.

``You get slapped down hard in that Legislature,'' forum co-host Assemblyman Sam
Blakeslee, R-San Luis Obispo, said after the meeting. ``It's very
disappointing.''

The task force promoted the public meeting, and two others coming up, as ``open
and thoughtful forums'' to ``build a stronger California.'' Almost everyone who
took to the microphone, from an energetic Minuteman volunteer to an 80-year-old
man, was bent on highlighting the problems caused by an estimated 3 million
illegal immigrants in California.

The forum was peaceful; if pro-illegal-immigration activists were present, they
remained silent.

Bob Haueter, an aide to Los Angeles County Supervisor Mike Antonovich, said
illegal immigration causes a ``catastrophic'' drain on taxpayers: an estimated
$1 billion in public services, not including education, in his county.

``We must not repeat the mistakes of the past,'' Haueter said. ``We need to
tighten the borders, increase enforcement, prosecution.''

Santa Clarita City Councilman Cameron Smyth expressed frustration that illegal
immigrant day laborers are prone to commit nuisances, such as public
intoxication, vandalism and public urination, that scare away shoppers from
approaching local stores where the workers loiter.

He said his city attacked the problem in the spring by passing an ordinance
barring contractors from doing business with the city if they hire ``people who
are not citizens of this country.'' There's no reason, he said, the state can't
pass a similar law.

While most speakers were fervently opposed to illegal immigration, two women
representing a Catholic-owned health care system sounded more sympathetic,
suggesting that immigration relief for those in the country illegally, as has
been debated in Congress, would lead to better health care.

``We know that many undocumented parents don't enroll their children, who are
citizens, in government-sponsored insurance such as Medicaid or Healthy Families
because they are afraid,'' said Maureen Malone, who represented two local
hospitals that wrote off $13 million in charity care last year.

The panel, made up of two legislators, Blakeslee and Audra Strickland, the
Assemblywoman from nearby Westlake Village, and staff members for other
Republican lawmakers, sat at a table on stage and frequently asked questions of
speakers, but never injected any opinions.

Strickland, after the meeting, said the forum ``merely scratched the surface of
the information that's out there.''

Assembly Republican Leader George Plescia, who helped conceive the town halls
but did not attend the first one, said in an interview that he expects the
forums to provide lawmakers with enough information to build a legislative
package the Assembly Republican Caucus can support.

``It's clear,'' he said, ``that immigration is an issue that has great intensity
within the California voters.''

The next forums are scheduled for Orange County: Oct. 11 in Tustin and Oct. 12
in Yorba Linda. Plescia said he doesn't expect any forums in Northern California
until early next year.

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              256 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 4, 2006 Wednesday

Confident Feinstein to help party allies;
GOP'S CHANCES OVER INCUMBENT SLIM TO NONE

BYLINE: Frank Davies, MediaNews Washington Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 946 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein, arguably the state's most popular politician, will keep
busy this campaign season. She plans to help Phil Angelides' campaign for
governor and wants to boost the chances of Democrats taking back the Senate.

Then there's that other campaign that will require some effort from the longtime
politician, now 73 -- her own re-election bid Nov. 7.

Feinstein is so far ahead in her race against Republican Dick Mountjoy, and
enjoys such a financial advantage, that she can spend significant time helping
other Democrats.

``One big area we will concentrate on is turnout, making sure Democrats vote,''
said Kam Kuwata, her campaign manager.

Standing their grounds

Feinstein will defend her opposition to the Iraq war, her support for
legalization of some illegal immigrants and her work on other issues at
editorial boards and community meetings around the state. But don't look for a
lot of TV ads or strenuous campaigning.

Mountjoy, 74, a former state senator from Monrovia, is undaunted. He opposes
Feinstein on Iraq and immigration, and is a vociferous foe of abortion rights
and gay marriage. He's best known as the sponsor of Proposition 187, the effort
in 1994 to deny health care and other benefits to illegal immigrants.

He would also try to block citizenship to the children of undocumented
residents.

``I am a strong conservative,'' Mountjoy said in a telephone interview.
``Between the two candidates in this race, there can't be a more stark contrast
on the issues.''

Feinstein, with a center-to-liberal voting record and a reputation for quiet
bipartisanship, has maintained a lead of roughly 2-to-1 in most polls. A Field
Poll released Monday has her ahead 57 percent to 29 percent, leading in every
region of the state except the suburbs around Los Angeles County.

``The key to her success is that as a moderate Democrat, it's hard for
Republicans to challenge her in an increasingly `blue' state,'' said Terry
Christensen, a longtime political analyst at San Jose State University.

Republicans have had trouble recruiting a big name to challenge Feinstein, a
former San Francisco mayor. Six years ago, former Silicon Valley Congressman Tom
Campbell -- now dean of the University of California Business School -- was seen
as a strong challenger, but he lost with only 37 percent of the vote.

This year other Republicans in the House ``decided to stay in their secure seats
rather than throw it all away to run against her,'' Christensen said.

Mountjoy said he will do well ``if I can get my message out,'' but that's a
formidable task. Through June, he had raised only $37,199 -- even less than that
of Green Party candidate Todd Chretien, who had $54,332. Feinstein's campaign
had $7 million.

Building support

Mountjoy recalled a conversation he had a couple of months ago with Ken Mehlman,
chairman of the Republican National Committee, who assured him of GOP support.

``I said, `What about hard cash?' '' Mountjoy said. ``I haven't heard from
him.''

So Mountjoy travels around the state -- sometimes driving himself or flying his
own plane -- raising money and reminding voters that he was always under-funded
in successful races for the state Senate, and Proposition 187 wasn't supposed to
prevail either.

Given the anti-war fervor of many Democrats, Feinstein might have worried about
a challenge from the left this year. A member of the intelligence committee, she
voted to authorize the Iraq war in 2002.

In the past three years, she has become a vocal critic of the war. She said the
Bush administration misled her, and this year she supported an amendment calling
for the withdrawal of U.S. forces to begin by the end of the year.

``The intelligence that led to the war in Iraq was fatally flawed. Worse, it was
misused by the administration,'' Feinstein said in a speech this summer. ``As a
result, policy-makers made the decision to go to war based on information that
was simply wrong.''

Feinstein ``walked a fine line on Iraq, and she avoided the Lieberman
phenomenon,'' said Christensen, referring to the defeat of Sen. Joe Lieberman, a
Connecticut Democrat who supported the war, in an August primary.

Battling hot issues

The only woman on the Judiciary Committee, she opposed the nomination of Samuel
Alito to the Supreme Court this year, saying he would cut back on reproductive
rights. Feinstein also criticized Bush's secret warrantless surveillance
program.

On the hot issue of immigration, Feinstein has supported tougher border
security, including increased punishment for anyone involved in tunneling under
the border, and voted for the Senate bill that included a path to legal status
for some illegal residents.

``We need to find an orderly way to allow those people who are already here, who
are embedded in our communities and our workforce, to be able to become full
members of our society,'' she said.

Mountjoy said most California voters he talks to, including some Democrats,
strongly disagree with that: ``They want an end to illegal immigration. She's
out of touch.''

One advantage Feinstein has is, as a member of the two important committees --
the Appropriations Committee and the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, she
has been able to steer big-ticket projects to the state, including water
programs. In the spirit of bipartisanship, she worked closely with Rep. Richard
Pombo, a Stockton Republican, to ensure funding.

Mountjoy and Feinstein aren't the only candidates in the race. Minor party
candidates include Chretien of the Greens, Don Grundmann of the American
Independent Party, Libertarian Michael Metti and Marsha Feinland of the Peace
and Freedom Party.

Contact Frank Davies at fdavies@mercurynews.com or (202) 662-8921.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              257 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 9, 2006 Monday

Intelligent immigration;
IN SHIFT, WORKING CLASS AND MINORITIES WANT BORDER ENFORCEMENT

BYLINE: Victor Davis Hanson

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 724 words


When I wrote ``Mexifornia'' more than three years ago, much of the criticism
came from the academic and open-borders left. The memoir was considered
insensitive in our politically correct age for complaining that it was not wise
or moral that millions were here illegally from Mexico.

But lately I have heard far more fault-finding with ``Mexifornia'' from the
grass-roots middle and right, over both my advocacy for some sort of earned
citizenship for most hardworking illegal immigrants and my objections, on both
practical and ethical grounds, to mass deportations.

Why the shift in public opinion?

Broad class considerations are now transcending particular party, racial and
ethnic views of illegal immigration, pitting the well-off few against the
less-fortunate many. Many of the more privileged Americans who frequent fancy
restaurants, stay in hotels and depend on hired help for lawn and pool
maintenance, home repair and child care don't think illegal immigration is that
big of a deal.

Those in the higher-paid professions do not fear low-wage competition for their
jobs in law, medicine, academia, the media, government or the arts. And many who
have no problem with the present influx live in affluent communities with good
schools insulated from the immediate budgetary consequences of meeting the needs
of the offspring of the 11 million here illegally. These wealthier people aren't
so much liberal in their tolerance of illegal immigration as they are
self-interested and cynical.

In contrast, the far more numerous poor and lower middle classes of America,
especially in the Southwest, are sincerely worried -- and angry. Indeed, it is
no longer possible to caricature opponents of illegal immigration as part of a
small nativist fringe.

For the broad middle class, the poor and minorities -- people who dine mostly at
home, travel infrequently, mow their own lawns and change their children's
diapers -- inexpensive service labor is not seen as much of a boon to them.
Plus, lower- and middle-class Americans live in communities where schools are
more impacted by an influx of Spanish-only speakers. And as janitors, maids,
groundskeepers, carpenters, factory workers and truckers, they fear competition
from lower-wage illegal laborers. Immigrants who wait years to enter the United
States legally can be particularly unsympathetic to others who cut in front --
in violation of the law.

The public is also growing uneasy with three decades of multiculturalism while
developing a new appreciation of the old multiracial melting pot. Other
minorities don't understand why the Latino immigrant community needs bilingual
ballots and special government translation help.

Because the United States is increasingly less a majority of whites of European
ancestry and more a mixture of dozens of races and ethnicities, the need for a
common unifying language and culture has never been more important. When
Americans look abroad at the violent messes in the Balkans, Rwanda, Darfur and
Iraq, the notion of emphasizing separation here at home by race, tribe, language
or religion makes absolutely no sense. But the idea of letting only enough legal
immigrants in who can be easily assimilated surely does.

So how does this new popular worry over illegal immigration play out among a
variety of working-class groups and minorities?

While there remains controversy over amnesty and a guest-worker program, there
is now little disagreement over first enforcing the law and closing the borders
-- whether through periodic fortification, more Border Patrol officers, tough
employer sanctions or viable identification cards.

In the past three years, while I haven't changed my views about the need for an
earned-citizenship program or the impracticality of deporting 11 million illegal
residents, an angry public has passed ``Mexifornia'' by. Once caricatured as
illiberal for calling for an end to illegal immigration, the book now reads as
middle of the road, if not passe.

Indeed, if extremists continue to demonstrate for open borders, blare out ethnic
and linguistic chauvinism, and flout the law, then this current public anger
against illegal immigration will unfortunately appear mild in comparison to what
is on the horizon.

VICTOR DAVIS HANSON, a classicist and historian at the Hoover Institution,
Stanford University, is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              258 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 15, 2006 Sunday

English-only movement worries Latino, rights groups;
LOCALITIES PROPOSE IMMIGRATION CURBS

BYLINE: Howard Witt, Chicago Tribune

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words


When Tim O'Hare drives through the aging north Dallas suburb of Farmers Branch,
where he serves as a city councilman, he sees signs of trouble everywhere.
Property values are stagnating, he says. Crime is rising while schools are
declining.

And too many people are speaking Spanish.

``Our retail establishments are in deplorable shape: Half of the businesses
aren't filled, and the rest are filled with Spanish-speaking businesses,''
O'Hare said. ``Our citizens are still majority non-Spanish-speaking by far.
Spanish probably will overtake the city if we don't do something about this.''

The problems, O'Hare believes, are caused by undocumented immigrants. And the
solution he's proposing, in the form of a city ordinance, would make English the
official language of Farmers Branch and crack down hard on any landlord who
rents to an illegal immigrant or any employer who hires one.

It's a position that places O'Hare in the vanguard of an English-only movement
that is gaining new adherents in cities and states across the nation and causing
growing alarm among Latino civil rights groups.

Frustrated by what they perceive as the federal government's failure to secure
U.S. borders against undocumented immigrants, localities are taking matters into
their own hands: Twenty-seven states have passed laws declaring English to be
their official language, four others are considering them, and more than a dozen
towns and cities this year either have approved or are debating similar measures
that seek to curtail bilingualism in official government documents and programs.

Even more are coupling the English-only proposals with measures to block illegal
immigrants from access to housing, jobs and education. More than 30
municipalities like Farmers Branch have passed or are considering such laws,
according to the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors curbs
on immigration.

The measures typically require landlords and employers to verify the legal
status of every applicant for an apartment or a job or face stiff fines.

``Landlords and employers are the ones that are profiting as a result of illegal
immigration,'' said Ira Mehlman, a federation spokesman. ``Then those landlords
and employers are committing everybody else in those communities to pay for
education and health care, and they are subjecting neighbors to houses that are
filled with 20 and 30 people sometimes.''

Many Latino leaders, however, perceive racism behind the new laws and foresee
the backlash against undocumented immigrants spreading to Latinos, the nation's
largest minority group.

``There is a very anti-immigrant sentiment attached to the English-only
movement,'' said John Trasviña, interim president of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              259 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      November 1, 2005 Tuesday MO1 EDITION

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 514 words




WASHINGTON, D.C.

High court takes up immigration argument

The Supreme Court agreed Monday to clarify the rights of longtime illegal
immigrants to seek permission to stay in the United States.

Justices will decide if a provision in a 1996 federal law that tightened
restrictions on illegal immigrants applies to people who already were in the
United States when the law took effect.

The law says that once someone illegally re-enters the United States after being
deported, he has limited options to become a legal resident. The case is
Fernandez-Vargas vs. Gonzales.

United Methodists act to exclude gays

In a series of decisions that bolstered conservatives, the highest court in the
United Methodist Church on Monday defrocked an openly lesbian minister in
Pennsylvania and reinstated a pastor in Virginia who had been suspended for
refusing to allow a gay man to become a member of his congregation.

The Judicial Council, the United Methodist equivalent of the Supreme Court, also
in two cases involving the regional conferences of the Pacific Northwest and
California-Nevada, held that church law superseded local resolutions that were
more inclusive toward gays.

FLORIDA

Halloween fun quashed in hurricane's wake

Little ghosts and goblins in cities across South Florida were stuck inside
Monday night as officials urged parents to call off trick-or-treating because of
the damage from Hurricane Wilma.

The power still was out in many places, and storm debris made some streets and
sidewalks hazardous.

Officials in Miami and other communities asked parents not to let their children
go out after dark Monday. Several cities have had curfews since the storm hit a
week ago, and some of those curfews still were in effect. But even in cities
where the curfews had been lifted, officials worried about children being out in
the night.

Florida Power & Light, the state's largest electric utility, said Monday night
that power had been restored to 77 percent of customers blacked out by the Oct.
24 storm, but that left 740,000 homes and businesses still without electricity.

The state listed about 1,500 people still in emergency shelters Monday.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Drunken driving charged in deaths

The driver of a tractor-trailer was charged Monday with drunken driving after
slamming into a hayride and killing four people, including a toddler.

The crash happened Sunday night in Temperance Hill, when the 18-wheeler hit a
flatbed trailer and the tractor pulling it. Sixteen people were injured; two
remained hospitalized.

Investigators said it was unclear how fast the truck was going, and they would
not disclose the truck driver's blood-alcohol level.

Jake Davis Jr., 51, tried to swerve to the left to avoid overtaking and hitting
the hayride, authorities said. At the same time, tractor driver Franklin Jones
Jr., 33, swerved in the same direction to avoid being hit, said Highway Patrol
Lance Cpl. Paul Brouthers. The flatbed trailer did not have tail lights,
Brouthers said.

From the Associated Press and New York Times

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              260 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 19, 2005 Monday

Congress drops plan to raise limit on H1-B visas

BYLINE: Frank Michael Russell, Mercury News Assistant Business Editor

LENGTH: 609 words


In a disappointment for big tech employers,the Congress has dropped a
Senate-backed measure to raise the cap on H1-B visas by 30,000 workers. The
provision was dropped from a budget bill that passed the House early today and
was expected to be approved later today by the Senate.

The six-year H1-B visas are reserved for highly skilled foreign workers. In
2004, the Congress limited the number of H1-B visas to 65,000 a year, and that
limit has already been reached for the government's 2006 fiscal year, which
began in October.

Critics contend the visas encourage big companies to hire foreign workers for
jobs that should go to U.S. job seekers.

But large employers say the visas are needed to compete with rivals in other
countries. ``There is a real global competition for this work and for these
employees, and the question is not whether the work is going to get done, it's
where is the work going to get done,'' Sandy Boyd, a vice president at the
National Association of Manufacturers,'' told the Associated Press.

The House also set a February 2009 deadline for the transition to digital TV in
the budget bill early today. The Senate was expected to consider the bill later
today.

The measure would designate $1.5 billion to help consumers with older TV sets
buy converter boxes so they can receive the digital signals. That was less than
the $3 billion subsidy proposed by the Senate.

Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi has approved United HealthGroup's $9.2
billion stock and cash takeover of Southern California-based PacifiCare Health
Systems. The combined company would be a giant in the health care industry, with
about 26 million subscribers nationwide.

Garamendi said the companies have agreed that California consumers will not pay
for any of the costs of the merger and that the companies will commit $250
million in investments and donations to underserved communities.

``They will follow through on this,'' Garamendi said at a news conference,
according to the Associated Press. ``The agreement is enforceable by court
order.''

Is it a good idea for Time Warner to sell a stake in America Online to Google?
Investor Carl Icahn thinks the proposed deal could be ``disastrous'' for the big
media company.

``The real risk for Time Warner shareholders is that a Google joint venture may
be short-sighted in nature and may preclude any consideration of a broader set
of alternatives,'' Icahn said in a letter to directors of the media giant,
according to Bloomberg News.

You might recall last week's report in the Mercury News, citing a source
familiar with terms of the deal, that Google has agreed to pay a whopping $1
billion for a 5 percent stake in AOL.

Icahn said he is opposed to any deal that would block AOL from teaming up with
Google rivals such as Microsoft, Yahoo, eBay or IAC/InterActiveCorp.

You don't have to be fluent in Spanish to understand the universal appeal of
TV's popular ``Sabado Gigante.''

In good news for broadcaster Univision Communications, TV ratings service
Nielsen Media Research will now measure the Spanish-language network's full
audience, just like English-language networks such as NBC, CBS, ABC and Fox.

Previously, Univision was measured under Nielsen's National Hispanic Television
Index, which only counted Hispanic viewers.

Silicon Valley tech stocks:Up: Apple Computer. Down: Intel, Google, Cisco
Systems, Hewlett-Packard, Oracle, eBay, Yahoo, Applied Materials and Gilead
Sciences.

Check in weekday afternoons for the 60-Second Business Break, a summary of news
from Mercury News staff writers, the Associated Press, Bloomberg News and other
wire services. Contact Frank Russell at frussell@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              261 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 25, 2005 Sunday

Deal lets AOL bask in Google's golden glow

BYLINE: Frank Michael Russell, Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. SUN

LENGTH: 525 words


Here's a quick rundown of news you may have missed last week, culled from
reports by our staff and wire services.

Monday

You lose some, you win some.

In a disappointment for big tech employers, the House dropped a Senate-backed
measure to raise the cap on H-1B visas by 30,000 workers. The provision was
dropped from a budget bill that was approved later in the week by the Senate.

The H-1B visas are reserved for highly skilled foreign workers. Congress had
capped their number at 65,000 a year, and that limit has already been reached
for the government's 2006 fiscal year. Tech employers say they need the foreign
workers to compete with global rivals, but critics say they should hire U.S.
applicants.

But the tech industry also got a big win from Congress: a firm Feb. 17, 2009,
deadline to complete the transition from analog to digital TV. Some of that
freed broadcast spectrum is expected to be used for high-speed wireless Internet
services.

Tuesday

Those math geniuses at Google ran the numbers and concluded that 5 percent of
America Online is worth $1 billion. I barely showed up for my college math
class, but I'm told that values AOL as a whole at a whopping $20 billion. Making
the deal official, the board of AOL parent Time Warner happily took the cash.

Google, though, got more than a tiny stake in an online content and dial-up
access provider: It blocked rivals Microsoft and Yahoo from teaming up with a
company that accounts for a huge chunk of its advertising revenue. AOL, for its
part, won $300 million worth of Google ads. Plus it gets to bask in Google's
golden glow.

Wednesday

Who knew consolidation in the disk-drive industry could make Wall Street so
happy? In a ringing endorsement, shares of both Milpitas-based Maxtor and its
larger Scotts Valley rival, Seagate Technology, climbed after the companies
announced merger plans.

Seagate agreed to pay about $1.9 billion in stock for Maxtor. Maxtor stock
soared 53 percent in response to the news, and Seagate shares climbed 3 percent.


Thursday

Shielding children from sex, violence and harsh language, and protecting itself
from having to offer ``a la carte'' pricing, Comcast confirmed that it would
offer a family-friendly package of programming.

Comcast's Family Tier, available early next year, will offer basic cable plus
channels such as Toon Disney, Nickelodeon and Discovery Kids for about $31.20 a
month.

The cable industry strongly opposes the idea of offering individual channels.
That means no price break for those of you who want just the channels with sex,
violence and harsh language in their programming.

Friday

That big Google-AOL deal: It turns out those geniuses at the Mountain View
Internet giant already have an exit strategy.

A regulatory filing revealed that Google has a right to demand an initial public
offering of America Online beginning in July 2008. If AOL parent Time Warner
doesn't want to seek an IPO, it could choose to buy back Google's 5 percent
stake based on a fair market appraisal.

Frank Russell compiles the 60-Second Business Break, posted weekday afternoons
at about 2 at mercurynews.com. Contact him at frussell@mercurynews.com or (408)
920-5876.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              262 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 25, 2005 Sunday

Travel Q & A

SECTION: TR; Pg. TA

LENGTH: 410 words


Q We'd like to visit Switzerland or Paris. We're citizens of India here on H-1B
visas. Can you tell us what we'll need to do?

Shanthu Gummaraju, Fremont

A. If you're in the United States on an H-1B visa, which is the primary working
permit for foreign-born professionals in this country, you may need to apply for
a visa to whichever country you're interested in visiting.

For France, visit the Consul General's Web site, www.consulfrance-san
francisco.org(click on the English translation). You'll find information about
applying for a Schengen Visa for short stays of up to 90 days. Download the
application form and take it, along with other required documents, to the
consular office at 540 Bush St., where you will be fingerprinted. Cost is $42.68
(Visa or MasterCard are preferred).

Switzerland does not require a visa for stays of 90 days or less if you hold a
permanent resident card (more commonly called a green card). If you don't have a
green card, you will need to apply for a visa, which usually can be issued in
one business day. Contact the Consulate General of Switzerland in San Francisco:
(415) 788-2272. Also, check the Consulate General of Switzerland's Web site at
www.eda.

admin.ch/sanfrancisco.

Q. Do you have information on cruises sailing between Buenos Aires, Argentina
and Santiago, Chile? What is the best month for travel?

Conny Hoffschneider, Walnut Creek

A. Several cruise lines -- including Princess, Celebrity, Silversea, Holland
America and Oceania -- cruise the South American waters between Buenos Aires and
Valparaiso, Chile, from December to March, when it's summer south of the
equator. Cruises typically range from 13 to 16 days.

Depending on which cruise you take, ports of call can include Puerto Montt,
Chile; Port Stanley in the Falkland Islands; Ushuaia (Tierra del Fuego),
Argentina; and Montevideo, Uruguay. You'll also cruise around Cape Horn and
through the Strait of Magellan.

Cruises tend to be port-intensive, so you'll spend only about four days at sea.
But there are plenty of port excursions at every stop.

Prices range from $1,845 per person on the 13-day Princess cruise to $7,985 for
the 15-day trip offered by Silversea. Be sure to ask for a cabin on the
starboard side if you're going from Argentina to Chile or a port-side cabin if
you're headed the other way. It'll ensure you have the best views of mountains
and landscapes in both countries.

Have a question? Contact Michael Martinez at travelqa@mercury news.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              263 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Bush: Increase H-1B visas;
KEEP AMERICA COMPETITIVE, HE URGES CONGRESS

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera, Mercury News Washington Bureau

LENGTH: 606 words


In a move welcomed by Silicon Valley tech companies, President Bush called
Thursday for Congress to increase the number of visas available for high-skilled
foreign workers as part of his new effort to boost U.S. competitiveness.

The White House did not specify how many more of the H-1B visas it wants, but
said the current annual allotment of 65,000 -- plus 20,000 more for foreign
workers with advanced degrees from U.S. universities -- was too low. Bush's call
could energize attempts to increase the yearly cap on the controversial visas.

Valley companies covet them to fill jobs, claiming there are not enough
qualified Americans. But some high-tech workers say the visas just allow
companies to hire cheaper foreign employees beholden to the firms that sponsor
them.

In a speech at 3M's corporate headquarters in Minnesota, Bush said more
engineers, chemists and physicists are needed in the United States. He touted
the six-year H-1B visas as a way to temporarily fill those jobs.

``I think it's a mistake not to encourage more really bright folks who can fill
the jobs that are having trouble being filled here in America -- to limit their
number,'' Bush said. ``And so I call upon Congress to be realistic and
reasonable and raise that cap.''

At the height of the dot-com boom, Congress temporarily increased the number of
H-1B visas to a high of 195,000 a year from 2001 to 2003. But as part of the
deal to get the large increase through Congress in 2000, the annual cap reverted
in 2004 to its pre-1998 level of 65,000. It's remained there ever since.

But with the high-tech economy improving, the H-1B visas again are in high
demand.

The federal government received enough applications for the 2006 allotment that
it stopped accepting them on Aug. 12, more than two months before the fiscal
year began.

Congress tried to help in 2004, exempting as many as 20,000 additional H-1B
visas annually from the cap for foreign workers with advanced degrees from U.S.
universities. But U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which administers
the program, announced on Jan. 17 that it had reached that cap as well.

Urged on by the high-tech industry, some in Congress tried to increase the
annual H-1B allotment to 95,000 late last year. The Senate voted 85-14 in
November to include the boost, along with an increase in fees, in a bill to cut
the budget. But congressional negotiators dropped the provision in December amid
concerns it could cost Republican votes on the budget-cutting bill in the House
of Representatives.

High-tech lobbyists said they are working to resurrect an H-1B visa increase
this year, possibly as part of broader immigration legislation moving through
Congress.

``The economy, particularly in the tech sector, continues to ramp up, and they
need access to the best and brightest in the world,'' said Jeff Lande, senior
vice president of the Information Technology Association of America, a high-tech
trade group. ``The fact that the president is behind us brings tremendous heft
to that effort.''

Although H-1B visas are controversial, there may be enough bipartisan support
for improving America's global competitiveness that an increase could pass
Congress this year.

Bush's domestic policy adviser, Claude Allen, told reporters Thursday that the
White House was open to working with Congress on the number of additional H-1B
visas.

``Some reports have called for increases of 10,000, others between 20,000 and
40,000. So there are a number of options on the table to be considered,'' Allen
said. ``But we'll work with Congress on that.''

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington .com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              264 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Bush: Increase H-1B visas;
KEEP AMERICA COMPETITIVE, HE URGES CONGRESS

BYLINE: Jim Puzzanghera, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words


In a move welcomed by Silicon Valley tech companies, President Bush called
Thursday for Congress to increase the number of visas available for high-skilled
foreign workers as part of his new effort to boost U.S. competitiveness.

The White House did not specify how many more of the H-1B visas it wants, but
said the current annual allotment of 65,000 -- plus 20,000 more for foreign
workers with advanced degrees from U.S. universities -- was too low. Bush's call
could energize attempts to increase the yearly cap on the controversial visas.

Valley companies covet them to fill jobs, claiming there are not enough
qualified Americans. But some high-tech workers say the visas just allow
companies to hire cheaper foreign employees beholden to the firms that sponsor
them.

In a speech at 3M's corporate headquarters in Minnesota, Bush said more
engineers, chemists and physicists are needed in the United States. He touted
the six-year H-1B visas as a way to temporarily fill those jobs.

``I think it's a mistake not to encourage more really bright folks who can fill
the jobs that are having trouble being filled here in America -- to limit their
number,'' Bush said. ``And so I call upon Congress to be realistic and
reasonable and raise that cap.''

At the height of the dot-com boom, Congress temporarily increased the number of
H-1B visas to a high of 195,000 a year from 2001 to 2003. But as part of the
deal to get the large increase through Congress in 2000, the annual cap reverted
in 2004 to its pre-1998 level of 65,000. It's remained there ever since.

But with the high-tech economy improving, the H-1B visas again are in high
demand.

The federal government received enough applications for the 2006 allotment that
it stopped accepting them on Aug. 12, more than two months before the fiscal
year began.

Congress tried to help in 2004, exempting as many as 20,000 additional H-1B
visas annually from the cap for foreign workers with advanced degrees from U.S.
universities. But U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, which administers
the program, announced on Jan. 17 that it had reached that cap as well.

Urged on by the high-tech industry, some in Congress tried to increase the
annual H-1B allotment to 95,000 late last year. The Senate voted 85-14 in
November to include the boost, along with an increase in fees, in a bill to cut
the budget. But congressional negotiators dropped the provision in December amid
concerns it could cost Republican votes on the budget-cutting bill in the House
of Representatives.

High-tech lobbyists said they are working to resurrect an H-1B visa increase
this year, possibly as part of broader immigration legislation moving through
Congress.

``The economy, particularly in the tech sector, continues to ramp up, and they
need access to the best and brightest in the world,'' said Jeff Lande, senior
vice president of the Information Technology Association of America, a high-tech
trade group. ``The fact that the president is behind us brings tremendous heft
to that effort.''

Although H-1B visas are controversial, there may be enough bipartisan support
for improving America's global competitiveness that an increase could pass
Congress this year.

Bush's domestic policy adviser, Claude Allen, told reporters Thursday that the
White House was open to working with Congress on the number of additional H-1B
visas.

``Some reports have called for increases of 10,000, others between 20,000 and
40,000. So there are a number of options on the table to be considered,'' Allen
said. ``But we'll work with Congress on that.''

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@krwashington .com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              265 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 19, 2006 Sunday

TEENS' QUESTIONS KEEP GOVERNOR ON HIS TOES

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 372 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger got a standing ovation Friday after he delivered an
inspiring, follow-your-dreams speech to some 2,000 California teen delegates at
the YMCA's annual Model Legislature and Court at the Sacramento Convention
Center.

And then he got to parry some tough questions.

The students, playing the roles of legislators, lobbyists, judges and
journalists, were in town for a four-day simulation of state government.

Given his background as an immigrant, how could Schwarzenegger support the
Minuteman Project of self-styled border patrollers, which encourages ``vigilante
violence,'' one student queried.

Patrolling the border is an issue the federal government should address so
people don't ``rise up and take the law into their own hands,'' Schwarzenegger
said. He thinks the feds should adopt a guest worker program so immigrant
workers can come to the United States legally. ``I'm not for the Minutemen, may
I remind you. I'd rather have the federal government take care of this issue.''

The students applauded his answer.

What the governor neglected to add? Last April, Schwarzenegger told Los Angeles
talk radio hosts that the controversial Minutemen were doing ``a terrific job.''

Another student wondered this: What, other than his party affiliation, was
Schwarzenegger's personal objection to gay marriage?

The governor said he believed that gay and straight couples deserved equal
rights, citing measures broadening domestic partnership rights that he has
signed. ``You should have the same opportunities, the same rights,'' he said.

That answer also was applauded.

He did not mention his veto last year of a landmark same-sex marriage bill. ``I
do not believe the Legislature can reverse an initiative approved by the people
of California,'' he wrote in his veto message. The governor was referring to
Proposition 22, which defined marriage as a union between one man and one woman
and passed in 2000.

Afterward, questioner Emily Franklin of Chatsworth High School in Southern
California said she felt that Schwarzenegger hadn't really answered her
question. (Don't feel bad, Emily, the Capitol press corps knows the feeling.)

``It was kind of disappointing,'' the 16-year-old said. ``But I never supported
him anyway.''

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              266 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

Freedom of speech requires judgment

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 786 words


Reasonable liberals and conservatives can agree that simple dissent with
President Bush and his administration's policies is not unpatriotic or
treasonous.

However, when the opposition makes inflammatory and unsubstantiated allegations
like George Bush ``lied,'' that he is the world's biggest terrorist or
comparable to Adolf Hitler, I too am reminded of a quote attributed to Ben
Franklin: ``Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain, and most fools do.''

The right to free speech is a weak excuse for practicing character assassination
and justifying hate speech. If you can't respect others in your dissent, at
least respect yourself.

Jack AzevedoSanta Clara

Illegal workers are the criminals

Let me get this correct. Santa Cruz puts in a system so people who are in this
country illegally and working illegally can report employers who hire them
illegally (no FICA or SDI withheld) and ``abuse'' them. Also, calling them
``undocumented workers'' is like calling a bank robbery an unauthorized
withdrawal. When laws are broken they are broken, no matter what you call it.
What governments don't understand is that when they choose which laws to enforce
and which to ignore, their citizens may start to do the same.

Dave MobergSan Jose

Hybrids exact a terrible toll

When California increased the speed limit from 55 to 65 mph, a California
Highway Patrol official told the San Jose Mercury News that the department was
going to strictly enforce the new maximum speed. So much for good intentions.
Imagine, it takes those pipsqueak hybrids in the carpool lane to slow the
``75-plus mph'' driver down to lawful speeds. How awful.

Neal HemelSan Jose

A law for women written by men

The South Dakota legislature decided ``That the life of a human being begins
when the ovum is fertilized by male sperm.'' Choosing this point in the process
may seem rather arbitrary unless one notes that the legislature is about 90
percent male. Since males play such a biologically insignificant part of the
process, it's only natural they would want to define their part as the most
important. Once that single sperm has done its job, the man can go on his way,
but the woman must bear the consequences -- according to man's law -- without a
choice.

Bob DownsLos Gatos

Bonds followed league's rules

Shame on your writers for the retroactive conviction of Barry Bonds for using
steroids when they were not banned. Please also note that Bonds has been tested
several times since the steroids ban has been in effect and the results have
always been negative. Therefore, Bonds is clean according to rules put in place
by MLB itself.

Rick EllisSunnyvale

A punishment fit for church burners

The burning of the nine Baptist churches in rural Alabama was a heinous crime
(Page 5A, March 9). As the three students who were arrested do the time for
their crime, they should be indentured to these churches to do rebuilding or
maintenance work. Let them suffer the ignominy of working for those they have
wronged. Perhaps they may find forgiveness.

John P. MaySan Jose

Krugman is right about job losses

Bravo to Paul Krugman for his very excellent column (Op-Ed, March 8). As an
unemployed engineer watching jobs march offshore, I want to say he is 100
percent on-target. President Bush's comment on ``train for tomorrow'' doesn't
mean much if ``tomorrow'' isn't located on the continental United States.

Ron FeldmanLos Gatos

What country was he talking about?

I read with bemusement Scott McClellan's comment ``The regime would be better
served by making a decision to work with the international community instead of
continuing to engage in provocative statements and take defiant steps'' (Page
3A, March 9). Is he referring to the current administration of the United
States?

Lin White-SchroederSan Jose

Who put us in charge of Iraq?

Darryl Johnson asks, ``What part of freedom and democracy in Iraq and
Afghanistan could you possibly be against?'' (Letters, March 9). To that I
respond: ``What voice came out of the sky and said we must send our young men to
Iraq to die by the thousands so that Iraq can turn into an anti-U.S. theocracy
and Afghanistan into a warlord state?''

Simon MayerhoferSan Jose

Clinton comparison was laughable

Henry I. Miller of the Hoover Institution claims the Clinton administration
ignored science for political ends to a greater extent than the current Bush
administration (Page 11A, March 6). You should know better than to print such
blatant conservative propaganda. Over-the-counter Plan B (the morning-after
pill) would have prevented 1.7 million unintended pregnancies and 800,000
abortions each year in the United States. Comparing the suppression of OTC Plan
B to approval of the female condom is laughable.

Steven KoSan Francisco

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              267 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday

Dubai's foreign workers fight back;
LABOR SITUATION LIKE `WILD WEST' LEADS TO RIOTING

BYLINE: Dion Nissenbaum, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words


Every day before dawn, Gangyah Kundala folds up his blanket, steps over nine
other men sleeping on the floor in a stuffy, windowless room, says a silent
prayer before a cardboard altar fastened to the wall and slips outside.

For 10, sometimes 12, hours each day, Kundala lays brick at one of dozens of
construction sites in the heart of Dubai's mind-boggling building boom.

The job was supposed to bring the 33-year-old easy money to send home to his
wife and three kids in India. But, like thousands of other foreign workers lured
to Dubai by the promise of prosperity, Kundala's hopes have been battered by the
stark reality of this Middle East boomtown.

``When I got my visa I was very happy,'' Kundala said while standing in the
labor camp room he shares. ``But now I know Dubai. It's no profit to come
here.''

Dubai's unrivaled building frenzy is creating one of the Middle East's most
enticing and elite vacation getaways, but it's supported by an increasingly
disgruntled foreign labor force that's creating tensions in the Persian Gulf
nation.

Faced with squalid living conditions and what they say are dangerous
construction sites and unscrupulous employers, foreign workers are beginning to
fight back. They've staged sporadic strikes to protest low pay. Women brought in
to work as domestic servants are running away. In the biggest outbreak so far,
hundreds of workers rioted two weeks ago at the construction site for the
world's tallest building.

``The general business and labor environment in the United Arab Emirates
resembles the Wild West,'' said Hadi Ghaemi, a Middle East researcher at the
advocacy group Human Rights Watch, who is studying the problems in Dubai. ``It
is really a gold mine for any opportunistic charlatan who wants to enrich
himself using other people's labor and get away.''

While countries across the Arabian Peninsula have brought in millions of workers
from India, Pakistan and countries in Southeast Asia, Dubai is the epicenter for
a Middle East construction boom.

Two years ago, Kundala paid about $2,500 to get a three-year work visa to come
to Dubai. When he got here, he had to turn over his passport to his company, as
most foreign workers do.

He makes about $270 a month. Like the nine men sharing his room at the labor
camp, he pays $50 a month -- about half of what he's able to send home -- for
his space on the concrete floor. The room isn't much bigger than a large
American walk-in closet. Workers hang their clothes from pegs above their
sleeping spaces, wash in plastic buckets and cook outside on communal stoves in
a makeshift kitchen.

Kundala lives in one of the worst labor camps on the outskirts of Dubai. At the
better ones, six workers share quarters barely big enough for three metal bunk
beds fitted with thin foam mattresses.

There are labor camps like these across the Arabian Peninsula. But nowhere is
the problem more acute than Dubai.

One of the country's seven emirates and uniquely poor in oil, Dubai is at the
peak of a decadelong building boom, largely for tourists. It's already home to
the world's most luxurious hotel, the region's only indoor ski slope and acres
of high-end shopping malls.

Developers are building audacious projects in the shape of palm trees and what
they hope will be the world's tallest building. There are upward of 2 million
foreign workers in the country doing everything from building hotels and driving
taxis to cleaning houses and working as prostitutes.

While the United Arab Emirates sets basic standards for labor camps, it has only
80 inspectors to keep track of an estimated 200,000 companies doing business
here, said Ghaemi, and as few as a third of the camps meet the minimum
requirements. Officials with the country's labor department didn't respond to
repeated requests to discuss the situation.

Dubai has tried to respond to the concerns. Last fall, the police department set
up a 24-hour labor-complaint hotline and says it's already recovered nearly
$300,000 for 25,000 workers.

But many workers are reluctant to complain to the government because their
situation is so tenuous. Workers who protest and lead strikes are reported to
have been quickly kicked out of the country.

The bleak living conditions, combined with long work hours and low pay, also
have led to rising suicide rates. Last year, Ghaemi said, 80 Indian residents
took their lives, up from 67 in 2004. One worker hanged himself at a
construction site last year. In one of the more dramatic recent cases, a
Pakistani taxi driver set himself on fire in front of his company after
reportedly being refused permission to return home to visit his ailing mother.

If the United Arab Emirates really is concerned about the problems, Ghaemi said,
it should join international treaties that protect workers and human rights.

``It's really the source of the problem,'' he said. ``The government is not
acknowledging its obligations.''

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              268 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

H-1B visa law criticized;
ANALYSIS: PROGRAM GIVES AMERICANS NO PROTECTION, `NEEDS TO BE FIXED'

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

LENGTH: 1173 words


When a Sunnyvale tech company laid off the manager and most of his colleagues in
its reliability testing group a year and a half ago, the manager said a few
employees were spared -- younger, foreign workers on H-1B visas.

The laid-off manager was infuriated that as an American citizen, he wasn't given
priority over the H-1B employees. The H-1B visa program allows employers to hire
skilled foreign workers when there's a shortage of available American workers.

``The law does not protect American workers at all,'' said Frank, a 45-year-old
Chinese-American who was out of work for five months, and who insisted his last
name and the name of his former company not be published because he fears
repercussions from potential employers. ``It only helps American businesses and
technology companies keep their costs low while sacrificing American workforce.
That's not right.''

As Congress debates nearly doubling the number of highly skilled guest worker
visas next year to 115,000, calls are mounting for an overhaul of Department of
Labor's Foreign Labor Certification program. Critics have long charged that the
foreign-worker program doesn't fulfill its primary mission: protecting American
workers. They want stronger laws to preserve American jobs and argue the current
system is prone to abuse and fraud.

Increasingly, the federal government's reviews and audits of its own
foreign-worker programs are highlighting the same shortcomings.

While tech companies and lobbyists credit the H-1B visas with filling a crucial
shortage of skilled tech labor, workers and their advocates counter the visas
are being used to push Americans out of jobs and depress wages.

A Mercury News examination of little-known government reports and analysis of
H-1B applications supports critics' charges that the program gives U.S. citizens
virtually no protection from being replaced by a foreign worker.

California employers who filed applications seeking to hire H-1B workers were
virtually guaranteed approval. Of nearly 54,000 applications to hire foreign
workers filed by California employers in 2005, only 114 were denied by the
Foreign Labor Certification program. Not all approved applications resulted in
the hiring of a foreign worker or a visa being issued.

Employers are not required to prove that American workers were not available for
those jobs. The Labor Condition Application requires information about the H-1B
position and the wage an employer intends to pay, which must be at least the
prevailing market wage. The law also doesn't require the labor department to
verify that employers actually pay the wages they stipulate unless there is a
complaint.

Of the 3,628 H-1B applications for foreign-worker visas filed last year by
companies in San Jose, only two were denied. In Santa Clara, 3,677 applications
brought only three denials.

The Department of Labor ``rubber-stamps the forms that companies send them,''
said Marcus Courtney, president of WashTech, which represents tech workers
across the country. ``Their hands are tied. They follow the law, which isn't
adequate.''

Officials from the Department of Labor acknowledge that current statute allows
them to reject applications only if there are obvious errors or omissions.

Feinstein's position

A few legislators acknowledge the issue: ``The problem has been that the
Department of Labor does not really check to see if the company has made the
effort to recruit in the United States,'' wrote Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.,
in an e-mail. Still, Feinstein supports doubling the number of visas from the
current 65,000. With various exemptions for certain types of jobs, the actual
number of visas would effectively reach nearly 300,000.

``The program needs to be fixed,'' said Ron Hira, a vice president with the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA in Washington, D.C. ``We
don't think raising the cap should be on the table before that happens.''

Tech-industry lobbyists counter that current rules sufficiently protect American
workers. More H-1Bs are needed to fill the shortage of professionals with
advanced degrees, they argue. Petitions for the entire 2006 allotment of H-1Bs
reached the cap last August.

In 2003, nearly 40 percent of the 217,000 H-1B petitions approved that year were
for computer-related jobs.

``I have many executives saying they would love to hire for those positions from
here,'' said Chris Merida, manager of public policy for the American Engineering
Association. ``But . . . the talent is not here.''

In the last decade, numerous government reports have cited problems, but they
have received scant media attention. A 1996 Department of Labor report was
headlined: ``The Department of Labor's Foreign Labor Certification Programs: The
System is Broken and Needs to Be Fixed.''

In its 2005 annual report, the Department of Labor concluded that ``reducing the
susceptibility of DOL Foreign Labor Certification programs to abuse remains a
challenge.'' Recent investigations by the department's Office of the Inspector
General ``revealed corrupt employers, labor brokers and lawyers who file
fraudulent applications. The prevalence of these cases consistently demonstrates
the susceptibility of the program to fraud.''

In 2004, a report by the White House's Office of Management and Budget said the
H-1B program is ``vulnerable to fraud or abuse.'' It recommends adding
anti-fraud and audit functions and ``legislative changes . . . to require
employers to test the labor market'' to recruit American workers before turning
to foreign laborers.

Instances of fraud

It also cited problems with the permanent labor program, which allows employers
to hire foreign workers permanently. Investigators found instances where
applications for permanent workers were filed on behalf of fictitious employees,
and where approval paperwork needed to hire foreign workers was illegally sold.
The priority, the report said, was on processing applications, not rooting out
fraud.

Employers admitted to General Accounting Office investigators in 2003 that they
``hired H-1B workers in part because these workers would often accept lower
salaries than similarly qualified U.S. workers'' -- but they did not violate the
law because they were paying workers at least the ``prevailing wage'' approved
by the Department of Labor.

``The system is broken, worthless,'' said Norm Matloff, a professor at
University of California-Davis and outspoken opponent of the foreign worker
program who has reviewed many of the reports.

``Companies don't need to violate the laws because of the loopholes,'' he said.
``They can easily violate the spirit of the law. That's fraud to me.''

Frank, the laid-off test manager, found work at a tech start-up but is concerned
where the industry is heading. When he became a naturalized citizen in 1998, ``I
thought it would give me more rights,'' he said. ``The reality is that the
opportunities are for the foreigners.''

Mercury News database editor Griff Palmer contributed to this report. Contact K.
Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              269 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

H-1B visa law criticized;
ANALYSIS: PROGRAM GIVES AMERICANS NO PROTECTION, `NEEDS TO BE FIXED'

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: BU; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words


When a Sunnyvale tech company laid off the manager and most of his colleagues in
its reliability testing group a year and a half ago, the manager said a few
employees were spared -- younger, foreign workers on H-1B visas.

The laid-off manager was infuriated that as an American citizen, he wasn't given
priority over the H-1B employees. The H-1B visa program allows employers to hire
skilled foreign workers when there's a shortage of available American workers.

``The law does not protect American workers at all,'' said Frank, a 45-year-old
Chinese-American who was out of work for five months, and who insisted his last
name and the name of his former company not be published because he fears
repercussions from potential employers. ``It only helps American businesses and
technology companies keep their costs low while sacrificing American workforce.
That's not right.''

As Congress debates nearly doubling the number of highly skilled guest worker
visas next year to 115,000, calls are mounting for an overhaul of Department of
Labor's Foreign Labor Certification program. Critics have long charged that the
foreign-worker program doesn't fulfill its primary mission: protecting American
workers. They want stronger laws to preserve American jobs and argue the current
system is prone to abuse and fraud.

Increasingly, the federal government's reviews and audits of its own
foreign-worker programs are highlighting the same shortcomings.

While tech companies and lobbyists credit the H-1B visas with filling a crucial
shortage of skilled tech labor, workers and their advocates counter the visas
are being used to push Americans out of jobs and depress wages.

A Mercury News examination of little-known government reports and analysis of
H-1B applications supports critics' charges that the program gives U.S. citizens
virtually no protection from being replaced by a foreign worker.

California employers who filed applications seeking to hire H-1B workers were
virtually guaranteed approval. Of nearly 54,000 applications to hire foreign
workers filed by California employers in 2005, only 114 were denied by the
Foreign Labor Certification program. Not all approved applications resulted in
the hiring of a foreign worker or a visa being issued.

Employers are not required to prove that American workers were not available for
those jobs. The Labor Condition Application requires information about the H-1B
position and the wage an employer intends to pay, which must be at least the
prevailing market wage. The law also doesn't require the labor department to
verify that employers actually pay the wages they stipulate unless there is a
complaint.

Of the 3,628 H-1B applications for foreign-worker visas filed last year by
companies in San Jose, only two were denied. In Santa Clara, 3,677 applications
brought only three denials.

The Department of Labor ``rubber-stamps the forms that companies send them,''
said Marcus Courtney, president of WashTech, which represents tech workers
across the country. ``Their hands are tied. They follow the law, which isn't
adequate.''

Officials from the Department of Labor acknowledge that current statute allows
them to reject applications only if there are obvious errors or omissions.

Feinstein's position

A few legislators acknowledge the issue: ``The problem has been that the
Department of Labor does not really check to see if the company has made the
effort to recruit in the United States,'' wrote Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.,
in an e-mail. Still, Feinstein supports doubling the number of visas from the
current 65,000. With various exemptions for certain types of jobs, the actual
number of visas would effectively reach nearly 300,000.

``The program needs to be fixed,'' said Ron Hira, a vice president with the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers-USA in Washington, D.C. ``We
don't think raising the cap should be on the table before that happens.''

Tech-industry lobbyists counter that current rules sufficiently protect American
workers. More H-1Bs are needed to fill the shortage of professionals with
advanced degrees, they argue. Petitions for the entire 2006 allotment of H-1Bs
reached the cap last August.

In 2003, nearly 40 percent of the 217,000 H-1B petitions approved that year were
for computer-related jobs.

``I have many executives saying they would love to hire for those positions from
here,'' said Chris Merida, manager of public policy for the American Engineering
Association. ``But . . . the talent is not here.''

In the last decade, numerous government reports have cited problems, but they
have received scant media attention. A 1996 Department of Labor report was
headlined: ``The Department of Labor's Foreign Labor Certification Programs: The
System is Broken and Needs to Be Fixed.''

In its 2005 annual report, the Department of Labor concluded that ``reducing the
susceptibility of DOL Foreign Labor Certification programs to abuse remains a
challenge.'' Recent investigations by the department's Office of the Inspector
General ``revealed corrupt employers, labor brokers and lawyers who file
fraudulent applications. The prevalence of these cases consistently demonstrates
the susceptibility of the program to fraud.''

In 2004, a report by the White House's Office of Management and Budget said the
H-1B program is ``vulnerable to fraud or abuse.'' It recommends adding
anti-fraud and audit functions and ``legislative changes . . . to require
employers to test the labor market'' to recruit American workers before turning
to foreign laborers.

Instances of fraud

It also cited problems with the permanent labor program, which allows employers
to hire foreign workers permanently. Investigators found instances where
applications for permanent workers were filed on behalf of fictitious employees,
and where approval paperwork needed to hire foreign workers was illegally sold.
The priority, the report said, was on processing applications, not rooting out
fraud.

Employers admitted to General Accounting Office investigators in 2003 that they
``hired H-1B workers in part because these workers would often accept lower
salaries than similarly qualified U.S. workers'' -- but they did not violate the
law because they were paying workers at least the ``prevailing wage'' approved
by the Department of Labor.

``The system is broken, worthless,'' said Norm Matloff, a professor at
University of California-Davis and outspoken opponent of the foreign worker
program who has reviewed many of the reports.

``Companies don't need to violate the laws because of the loopholes,'' he said.
``They can easily violate the spirit of the law. That's fraud to me.''

Frank, the laid-off test manager, found work at a tech start-up but is concerned
where the industry is heading. When he became a naturalized citizen in 1998, ``I
thought it would give me more rights,'' he said. ``The reality is that the
opportunities are for the foreigners.''

Mercury News database editor Griff Palmer contributed to this report. Contact K.
Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              270 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Shortage of skilled workers is a convenient mirage

BYLINE: Christopher R. Moylan

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 770 words


Know any scientists or engineers who have been laid off in the last five years?

Most readers would be able to answer ``yes'' to that question, but you'd never
know it from reading op-ed pieces by local academics and senior managers from
industry. ``Technology companies are starving for skilled employees,'' wrote
IBM's Jeanette Horan (Mercury News, May 2). ``The supply is low.'' Her solution,
like that of San Jose State's engineering dean Belle Wei (April 27) and former
Autodesk CEO Carol Bartz (March 24, 2005) is to close what Wei refers to as
``this alarming gap'' by pressuring more women to major in technical fields.
Others, such as SpikeSource CEO Kim Polese (May 1), use the excuse of a shortage
of high-tech workers to justify eliminating ``excessive restrictions on
immigration'' and allowing businesses to import higher numbers of foreign
workers. Whether the cry is for more H-1B visas or more female engineers, the
goal is the same: a dramatic increase in the supply of high-tech workers. The
problem with these proposed remedies is that they address an employee shortage
that does not, in fact, exist.

Thousands of highly trained scientists and engineers still roam Silicon Valley
looking for work after having been cut adrift by the same types of people who
now claim that they can't find anyone to hire. And thousands more are now
working in different fields at substantially lower salaries, having given up
searching for an equivalent to their previous positions. ``No one I know who has
looked at the data with an open mind has been able to find any sign of a current
shortage,'' said demographer Michael Teitelbaum in the Wall Street Journal's
Nov. 16 front-page story, ``Behind `Shortage' of Engineers: Employers Grow More
Choosy.'' In a column titled ``A Phony Science Gap?'' (Feb. 22), the Washington
Post's Robert J. Samuelson explained in detail why ``it's emphatically not true,
as much of the alarmist commentary on America's `competitiveness' implies, that
the United States now faces crippling shortages in its technological elites.''

Do these bogus claims of a scarcity of skilled technical workers constitute a
campaign to avoid having to pay market price for white-collar labor? Yes, but
there's more to it than that. Corporations legitimately can anticipate a
shortage of such workers in the future, because their own actions are setting
the stage for one.

Since the early 1980s, employers have systematically eliminated most of the
traditional incentives for high-tech careers. They pay the inventors and
developers of their products a fraction of what their sales and marketing
representatives make. They have eliminated pensions, individual offices and
medical benefits. They charge vacation time for company shutdowns. And, most
significantly, they have done away with job security -- a critical blunder
because product-development cycles are often longer than economic cycles.

It's amazing that Horan's IBM made it through the Great Depression without
laying off a single employee, but somehow couldn't survive the eight prosperous
years of the Clinton administration without axing tens of thousands of workers.
Parents used to tell their children to major in engineering or science in order
to get a secure job. Now children sit around the dinner table and hear about
layoffs, current and anticipated. New York Times reporter Louis Uchitelle's new
book, ``The Disposable American,'' documents the nationwide decrease in worker
productivity that has occurred since ``Neutron'' Jack Welch of General Electric
popularized the repeated layoff approach to economic downturns. Not only are the
displaced workers unproductive, but those who have been spared for the moment
are also permanently less productive because of worrying about whether they will
be next. When the time comes for students whose parents grew up in the United
States to choose a college major, they will remember those dinner-table
conversations. When the best students, being rational, start to desert science
and engineering, businesses will have nobody to blame but themselves. The
solution will be the same one that existed before the Reagan administration, as
Harvard economist Richard Freeman told Samuelson: ``If we want more (scientists
and engineers), we have to pay them better and give them better careers.''

CHRISTOPHER R. MOYLAN, a member of the Sunnyvale City Council, is a lecturer of
chemistry and director of the undergraduate laboratories at Stanford University.
He has taught engineering at the University of California-Santa Cruz and San
Jose State University. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              271 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 2309 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Recognizing the need of certain businesses for the type of labor they provide,
if illegal immigrants, their offspring or kin want to remain in the U.S. either
to work or gain citizenship, require that they register for either a Guest
Worker Permit or Guest Worker Family Permit which would be renewable at two year
intervals. Get in line, otherwise, go home and continue to exist as harbored
criminals.

To interject a "squatters' rights" philosophy relative to citizenship, such as
that proposed by the Republicans, is nothing more than a sham to distort the
process of attaining citizenship and makes a mockery out of the immigration laws
and regulations of the U.S.

R. Noel Mendoza, Aptos

Apres nous le deluge

A French historian I know insists it was not the French king Louis IV who said,
"Apres nous le deluge"("After us, the deluge.") but rather his mistress Madame
de Pompadour who, early on, smelled the up-coming French revolution. Madame de
Pompadour no doubt had in mind the story from Genesis: "Then God said to Noah,
The end of all flesh has come before Me; for the earth is filled with violence
because of them; and behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth."

It is not difficult, these days, to compare President Bush with Louis XV, both
men believing they were appointed to high office by God and surrounded by an
aristocracy (by birth in the case of France, and by assumption in the case of
America), with all the abuses of power you care to name.

The first American Revolution was created by some of the richest and most
powerful minds in America, while at the same time (as observed by a British
historian) King George had surrounded himself with the most stupid and inept men
ever likely to have misadvised a king.

The French Revolution, on the other hand, rose from the streets and was
accordingly, far bloodier and more dangerous than the American Revolution and
ultimately resulted in Napoleon. In France, a lot of brilliant people were put
to the guillotine, in America it was not so.

You may not have noticed, but we do have a President of the United States who
has publicly confessed to believing he was appointed by his companion and
consultant, God. Too, he has surrounded himself with the arrogant equivalent of
the French aristocracy.

While I do not advocate revolutions by violent means,I would suggest that given
the hanky panky with our voting system, the sullen distrust of our governments
at all levels, the lies and betrayals of those who claim both patriotic and
religious virtue to hold their claims to power, a violent revolution rising from
the streets is inevitable. I cannot predict the trigger, or the time and place
wherein it will commence, or even an approximate date. All I can say is that I
smell it on the streets and in the air. One certain sign is the incredibly low
turnout of voters - those who have lost faith in Government and who have come to
believe their votes are of no account, and it is money that rules the choice of
those who hold power at any cost. This is the death knell of democracy.

Take heed, "The bell tolls for thee."

Ignorance and blind Faith have reached deeply into the American government and
castrated major elements of the Constitution. Inch by inch the easily duped are
being lured into a Theocracy. Past experience with such governments both past
and present should ring fire bells in the night. They do not! Why? Because as
has been often said, "those who do not study history are doomed to repeat its
errors." If there is any revelation in recent educational investigations it is
that the average American (particularly the younger section) knows nothing of
history and or geography, and couldn't care less.

To paraphrase a famous author: "Look carefully upon them for they are Ignorance
and Want and they spell doom!"

Edward Laurie, San Jose

Gil Stein (Letters, June 7) asserts that I distorted history when I claimed that
Israeli/Palestinian borders were clearly defined in 1967. He conveniently
neglects to mention that UN Resolution 242 of 1967 stated that Israel had taken
land it was not entitled to, and was therefore illegally in possession of that
land. Whether the people on the other side were called Palestinians or something
else is immaterial; they are today known as Palestinians. As a member of the
peacemaking group at my church, I am quite concerned about the plight of average
Palestinian citizens, who have to cope with loss of homes and century-old olive
orchards to bulldozers, constant checkpoints to get to jobs, and loss of income,
while the world condemns their leaders and withholds any substantial assistance.

Marie T. Ramirez, Sunnyvale

I don't know where Girish Agrawal gets his facts, or which India he lived or
visited, but I do know this much: He is WAY off base. His analogy to apartheid
is entirely incorrect - a more appropriate analogy would be the situation in
Zimbabwe, where productive members of society are sacrificed and political
cronies are rewarded. Ability, talent and qualifications don't amount to much
more than a rejection letter. I will grant that the protesters were likely from
the upper-class and are/were elite performers. However, the reason they are in
the USA, protesting, is precisely because it was THEY who were shut-out. Not the
other way around. I know I certainly am a victim of that system, as are several
like me. That is the primary spark which causes the talented and the educated to
emigrate - this is the reason why Indo-Americans are, by far, one of the most
highly educated immigrant group.

In India, quotas are reserved for everything from kindergarten admissions to
seats in the Parliament ("reserved constituencies"). How much is enough towards
"leveling the field?" Besides, the Indian method of said leveling does not seem
to be by raising the level of those below, but by lowering those above. An
individual from an upper middle class or wealthy family can take advantage of
his/her birth to use this quota from cradle-to-grave. Their offspring continue
to avail these benefits and so on. Doesn't sound like apartheid to me! In every
instance a better qualified person is rejected in favor of a lesser qualified
candidate. I would be perfectly willing to accept a system of "reservations" if
there is an eventual phase-out of quotas over one or two generations: an
individual from the supposedly "oppressed classes" may use a quota ONCE in their
lifetime, and then they and their progeny forfeit any special previleges. After
all, if one insists on continuing this practice of quotas one generation after
another aren't you admitting that the ploy has failed, and this person remains
"backward" forever?

Sriram Naganathan, San Jose

I read with much amusement, the letter from Girish Agarwal saying that it was
shameful for people like me to demonstrate against caste based reservations in
India in Sunnyvale and equating it with raceism in the US .Just wanted to put
some facts straight on this issue.

The recent decision by the government of India would result in reservation of
seats in all educational institutions to around 50 percent and the same will be
shortly extended to employment in the private sector.So in the near future , the
possibility of anyone getting a seat in a good school in India for professional
education or for that matter getting his dream job will be driven not by how
hard one works,or his talent or abilities but by virtue of his birth and which
caste he is born into. Merit be damned! Instead of concentrating on grass root
level primary education and improving the school system, the government is
playing dirty politics by introducing seat reservations at the graduate and
post-graduate level to secure the backward caste vote-bank. Reservations cannot
become a panacea for lack of good school system,a huge school dropout rate and
shortage of good teachers in the villages.Infact these reserved seats are
captured today by the elite rich of the backward caste, even as the real
destitutes get no benefits. The recent case in point is the daugter of ex
President of India , Mr. K Narayanan, who got her medical seat through this
quota, inspite of having all the amenities.

Also it has become fashionable to pummel the Brahmins as root of all evils. Some
of the facts and figures on this are brought forth by article by Francois
Gautier "Are Brahmins the Dalits of today?" on the rediff portal. A study
conducted in Andhra Pradesh state of India clearly showed the plight of the
Brahmins today in India. The study found that 55 per cent of all Brahmins lived
below the poverty line - below a per capita income of Rs 650 a month. Since 45
percent of the total population of India is officially stated to be below the
poverty line it follows that the percentage of destitute Brahmins is 10 percent
higher than the all-India figure.Would you equate the economic or social state
of these Brahmins with the white people in America? Hardly!

Aniruddha Nabar, Sunnyvale

As a twenty-five year old American, being a registered and practicing voter puts
me in the minority. I've heard voting described as a privilege, a right, and a
patriotic duty. Looking at those descriptions is like looking at a ballot, I may
not like any of the options but these are all I have to choose from. If I can't
decide how I value my vote, how can I be expected to make up my mind in the
ballot box? Due to the low participation of youth in the voting process, I
frequently hear solutions to how we can get young Americans to turn out and
vote. Rather than searching for a way to get them into the booth, we may be
better served investigating what is causing their apathy. Even though I vote, I
can see reasons to feel disenchanted around election time. The television is
overflowing with campaign ads. Sadly there is little content in those ads but
plenty of back biting. Just look at the Democratic primary for governor. Each
candidate is throwing darts at another, giving the public a platform on why
their competitor is unfit for the position. The days leading to June 6th have
seen the subversion tactics increased daily. Amazingly, in only a few days, all
the harsh words will be muted and replaced with praise and support by the losers
for the victor.

It is no longer important to be forward thinking in politics. The public isn't
demanding content; instead they want to be fed easy answers. This is why
political campaigning has come to resemble competing products like Pepsi and
Coca-Cola rather than a democracy. I think our youths aren't being given enough
credit. Rather than lecturing them on why they should register and vote, perhaps
we should give them something to vote for.

Morgan Phillips, Rohnert Park

Free parking in Downtown San Jose shouldn't be so complicated if you look at it
from the view of the beneficiaries. Free parking will serve two factors ¹ retail
tenants for their customers and ² office tenants for their clients. Both of
these factors benefit the ultimate third party, the landlords. We have to "bite
the bullet" and use the tools we have in solving this problem. Free parking
should serve customers, clients and employees.

CUSTOMERS & CLIENTS: Create a Downtown "Parking District" comprised of these
three invested factors, funded by the current B.I.D. tax (Business Improvement
District) through a bond. Build well located, public parking garages with the
first three ³ hours free for customers and clients and finally end the current
validation system. This will stimulate more retail and office leases downtown.
EMPLOYEES: Offer free light rail to "outside-the-core" long term free parking
lots. What we need is a "real good parking problem" downtown.... "No one goes
downtown anymore..... it's too busy and I have to drive around looking for a
parking space." (just like Valley Fair at Christmas time)

Bill Carlson, San Jose

I feel compelled to respond to Lee Esquilbel's comments concerning my letter in
the Mercury News(June 5). He states that he expects the Mercury News to keep him
informed of what is known about an issue. If only the facts on one side are
known about an issue one can hardly call such an account "balanced news." We
give murderers in this country fair trials and certainly our service people
deserve no less. It is simply irresponsible to print only one side thereby
convicting our troops in the press prior to investigation. Mr Esquilbel also
states that he believes I do not understand the war in Iraq. I submit that Mr
Esquilbel does not understand the full scope of the global war on terror. Iraq
is but one front in this global war and why it is true that we are trying to
obtain freedoms for the Iraqis it also does very much affect our freedoms here
at home. If a Democracy can be established in the strategic heart of the Middle
East (Iraq) this will change(and has already changed to some extent) the entire
political climate of the area and effect all the surrounding countries. The
spread of Democracy in the Middle East is probably the only way for us to win
this war on terror and thereby preserve our precious freedoms.

Nancy Deussen, Palo Alto

Last Thursday, June 3rd, I was lucky enough to attend Jack O'Connell's press
conference at Branham High School. He discussed the controversy over the new
requirement for the class of 2006 to pass the high school exit exam in order to
graduate. As a senior, I agree with his statements about the students who still
have not passed. I think that students should be required to pass the exam for
the betterment of society. If students can't pass an exam based on prior
knowledge, then how can you expect them to perform well in life? Students have
multiple chances to pass the exam beginning in 10th grade. Even if they don't
pass, they can complete it in summer school or community college.

Sherry Ceolla, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              272 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 26, 2006 Monday

Tech visas come with obligation for valley leaders

BYLINE: Mike Langberg, Mercury News

LENGTH: 970 words


Silicon Valley's lobbyists in Washington are reviving a touchy topic that's been
largely dormant since the tech bubble burst in 2001: whether we need to continue
importing thousands of foreign engineers and other skilled professionals on
temporary H-1B visas.

Many U.S. engineers believe the H-1B program is nothing more than a back door
for greedy corporate bosses to get low-cost workers who can be quickly sent home
if they complain.

Employers, on the other hand, say they have lots of jobs they can't fill, and
argue that U.S. tech companies will lose ground to foreign competition without
H-1B talent or will be forced to move even more operations overseas.

Whatever the truth about H-1Bs, Silicon Valley companies need to do more to
resolve the issues surrounding these visas.

The dispute, meanwhile, is likely to land in the lap of Congress.

Rep. John Shadegg, a Republican from Arizona, is planning to introduce a bill
this week or next that would nearly double the number of H-1B visas granted
every year to 115,000 from 65,000 -- a key goal of lobbying groups including
TechNet and AeA, formerly the American Electronics Association.

This would complement a similar bill introduced in the Senate last month by Sen.
John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas.

Also in D.C., the H-1B process is getting new scrutiny. The Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, released a report last
week criticizing federal agencies for lax enforcement of H-1B rules.

The IEEE-USA, a group representing engineers, seized on the GAO report as
further evidence the H-1B program is a failure.

AeA, meanwhile, added fuel to the H-1B fire last week by sending every member of
Congress a position paper arguing that criticisms of the H-1B program are
``myths,'' three of which are worthy of debate.

The first AeA myth is that foreign nationals steal American jobs.

``High-tech companies are increasingly seeking skilled labor to feed a growing
industry and cannot find it,'' the position paper says. ``Visit the website of
many American technology companies and you will find thousands of unfilled
U.S.-based positions. Foreign nationals are critical for filling this void.''

Norman S. Matloff, a professor of computer science at UC-Davis and a longtime
H-1B critic, counters that claims of low unemployment among engineers don't
count underemployment.

For example, many Silicon Valley professionals were driven out of the tech
industry during the downturn from 2001 to 2004. A former software engineer now
working as a teacher or a real estate agent doesn't count in the statistics, and
may be making significantly less money.

Current engineering vacancies could reflect employers unwilling to hire older
engineers, even if they've retrained themselves, when the companies can hold out
for the alternative of cheaper H-1B labor.

The AFL-CIO, in a February position paper, argued that H-1Bs and other loopholes
allow employers ``to turn permanent jobs into temporary jobs. . . . As a result,
working conditions for all professional workers have suffered: pressures caused
by employer exploitation of professional guest workers coupled with increases in
outsourcing continue to have a chilling effect on any real wage increases for
professionals, even those not directly or immediately impacted.''

AeA's second myth is that foreign nationals are paid less than U.S. workers.

``The vast majority of companies (hiring H-1B workers) play by the rules, pay
market wages and do not wish to see the integrity of the program called into
question by a minority of infractors,'' the position paper says.

AeA cites several supporting studies, although Matloff and other critics cite
competing studies and even interpret the same studies in different ways.

It's impossible to settle the question definitively, in part because immigration
laws don't require H-1B employers to disclose sufficient data.

AeA's third myth is that H-1B employers are bound to their U.S. employers ``and
are therefore little more than indentured servants.''

Legally, H-1B visa holders are free to take other jobs in the United States, and
some do. But any H-1B hoping for a ``green card,'' the much-sought-after ticket
to permanent residence, must restart the application process if they switch
employers. Given the glacial pace of green-card approvals, this can create a de
facto obligation to stay put.

Last week's report by the GAO said the U.S. Department of Labor isn't doing
enough to verify even the minimal protections built into the current H-1B law.

From January 2002 through September 2005, the GAO reported, the Labor Department
approved 99.5 percent of the 960,563 applications it received for H-1Bs -- a
suspiciously high number.

``We do not know the true magnitude of the error rate in the certification
process,'' the GAO report concluded.

Ralph W. Wyndrum Jr., president of the IEEE-USA, issued a statement in response
to the GAO's findings:

``Implementation of the H-1B program fails every test of the principles its
advocates have asserted. Employers can and do give preference to H-1Bs over U.S.
workers. Employers who choose to do so can easily manipulate the system to pay
below-market wages.''

Silicon Valley's tech leaders have a broader immigration agenda with some
laudable objectives, such as making it easier for bright foreign students to
study at U.S. universities and for those students to remain when they graduate.

To keep that agenda on track, valley companies should balance their demand for
H-1Bs with a commitment to making the program more transparent. They should also
support clearly visible programs to retain and retrain their existing employees,
so we can accept at face value their requests for more temporary foreign
workers.

Contact Mike Langberg at mike@langberg.com or (408) 920-5084. Past columns may
be read at www.langberg.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              273 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 26, 2006 Monday

Langberg: Tech visas come with obligation for valley leaders

BYLINE: Mike Langberg, Mercury News

SECTION: PT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words


Silicon Valley's lobbyists in Washington are reviving a touchy topic that's been
largely dormant since the tech bubble burst in 2001: whether we need to continue
importing thousands of foreign engineers and other skilled professionals on
temporary H-1B visas.

Many U.S. engineers believe the H-1B program is nothing more than a back door
for greedy corporate bosses to get low-cost workers who can be quickly sent home
if they complain.

Employers, on the other hand, say they have lots of jobs they can't fill, and
argue that U.S. tech companies will lose ground to foreign competition without
H-1B talent or will be forced to move even more operations overseas.

Whatever the truth about H-1Bs, Silicon Valley companies need to do more to
resolve the issues surrounding these visas.

The dispute, meanwhile, is likely to land in the lap of Congress.

Rep. John Shadegg, a Republican from Arizona, is planning to introduce a bill
this week or next that would nearly double the number of H-1B visas granted
every year to 115,000 from 65,000 -- a key goal of lobbying groups including
TechNet and AeA, formerly the American Electronics Association.

This would complement a similar bill introduced in the Senate last month by Sen.
John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas.

Also in D.C., the H-1B process is getting new scrutiny. The Government
Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, released a report last
week criticizing federal agencies for lax enforcement of H-1B rules.

The IEEE-USA, a group representing engineers, seized on the GAO report as
further evidence the H-1B program is a failure.

AeA, meanwhile, added fuel to the H-1B fire last week by sending every member of
Congress a position paper arguing that criticisms of the H-1B program are
``myths,'' three of which are worthy of debate.

The first AeA myth is that foreign nationals steal American jobs.

``High-tech companies are increasingly seeking skilled labor to feed a growing
industry and cannot find it,'' the position paper says. ``Visit the website of
many American technology companies and you will find thousands of unfilled
U.S.-based positions. Foreign nationals are critical for filling this void.''

Norman S. Matloff, a professor of computer science at UC-Davis and a longtime
H-1B critic, counters that claims of low unemployment among engineers don't
count underemployment.

For example, many Silicon Valley professionals were driven out of the tech
industry during the downturn from 2001 to 2004. A former software engineer now
working as a teacher or a real estate agent doesn't count in the statistics, and
may be making significantly less money.

Current engineering vacancies could reflect employers unwilling to hire older
engineers, even if they've retrained themselves, when the companies can hold out
for the alternative of cheaper H-1B labor.

The AFL-CIO, in a February position paper, argued that H-1Bs and other loopholes
allow employers ``to turn permanent jobs into temporary jobs. . . . As a result,
working conditions for all professional workers have suffered: pressures caused
by employer exploitation of professional guest workers coupled with increases in
outsourcing continue to have a chilling effect on any real wage increases for
professionals, even those not directly or immediately impacted.''

AeA's second myth is that foreign nationals are paid less than U.S. workers.

``The vast majority of companies (hiring H-1B workers) play by the rules, pay
market wages and do not wish to see the integrity of the program called into
question by a minority of infractors,'' the position paper says.

AeA cites several supporting studies, although Matloff and other critics cite
competing studies and even interpret the same studies in different ways.

It's impossible to settle the question definitively, in part because immigration
laws don't require H-1B employers to disclose sufficient data.

AeA's third myth is that H-1B employers are bound to their U.S. employers ``and
are therefore little more than indentured servants.''

Legally, H-1B visa holders are free to take other jobs in the United States, and
some do. But any H-1B hoping for a ``green card,'' the much-sought-after ticket
to permanent residence, must restart the application process if they switch
employers. Given the glacial pace of green-card approvals, this can create a de
facto obligation to stay put.

Last week's report by the GAO said the U.S. Department of Labor isn't doing
enough to verify even the minimal protections built into the current H-1B law.

From January 2002 through September 2005, the GAO reported, the Labor Department
approved 99.5 percent of the 960,563 applications it received for H-1Bs -- a
suspiciously high number.

``We do not know the true magnitude of the error rate in the certification
process,'' the GAO report concluded.

Ralph W. Wyndrum Jr., president of the IEEE-USA, issued a statement in response
to the GAO's findings:

``Implementation of the H-1B program fails every test of the principles its
advocates have asserted. Employers can and do give preference to H-1Bs over U.S.
workers. Employers who choose to do so can easily manipulate the system to pay
below-market wages.''

Silicon Valley's tech leaders have a broader immigration agenda with some
laudable objectives, such as making it easier for bright foreign students to
study at U.S. universities and for those students to remain when they graduate.

To keep that agenda on track, valley companies should balance their demand for
H-1Bs with a commitment to making the program more transparent. They should also
support clearly visible programs to retain and retrain their existing employees,
so we can accept at face value their requests for more temporary foreign
workers.

Contact Mike Langberg at mike@langberg.com or (408) 920-5084. Past columns may
be read at www.langberg.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              274 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           October 20, 2005 Thursday

Lawmakers move to raise caps, fees on H1-B visas

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON (AP)


The government would issue 30,000 more visas to high-tech and other skilled
foreign workers each year and increase fees for those visas to help trim the
budget deficit under a measure proposed by a Senate committee.

The move by the Senate Judiciary Committee comes as high-tech firms and other
businesses complain that, for the third year in a row, they have already met the
annual cap on the popular H1-B visas just 20 days into the government's 2005-06
fiscal year that began Oct. 1.

''Without access to today's most creative minds worldwide, American businesses
will be forced to seek out other business opportunities in other parts of the
world,'' Rhett Dawson, president of the Information Technology Industry Council,
wrote to the Senate Judiciary Committee this month.

Congress capped H-1B visas at 65,000 per year in 2004.

Critics contend the visas give foreigners high-level jobs that should go to
American workers. But increasing their number and the fees for them enabled the
Judiciary Committee's proposal to reach savings of $300 million over five years
mandated by this year's budget agreement.

''In many cases we need these workers,'' said committee Chairman Arlen Specter,
R-Pa.

Specter wanted to allow 60,000 more visas per year and raise the current fee of
$3,185 for a six-year visa by $500. The fees are paid by employers.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., and others opposed adding so many more visas.
''What I don't want to see is Americans lose jobs,'' Feinstein said.

The committee approved a Feinstein amendment allowing 30,000 more H-1B visas per
year, and increasing fees by $500. Feinstein's amendment would also increase
fees on another kind of visa, the L-1, which companies use to transfer workers
they already employ in foreign countries to the United States. The fee on L-1
visas, now $685, would rise by $750.

Total savings from the plan were still being calculated but aides said it should
top $110 million per year.

The House Judiciary Committee has proposed increasing fees on L-1 visas by
$1,500 -- and making no change to H-1B visas -- to reach its budget goal.
Differences between House and Senate versions still have to be resolved.

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              275 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            October 21, 2005 Friday

46% boost in tech visas proposed;
SENATE PANEL OKS H-1B HIKE TO 95,000

BYLINE: By Jim Puzzanghera; Mercury News Washington Bureau

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Senate committee Thursday approved a nearly 50 percent increase in special
visas coveted by Silicon Valley companies to hire highly skilled foreign workers
and boosted application fees to help ease the federal budget deficit.

The actions, which still are several steps from becoming law, are less a
statement of job growth in the tech sector than a pragmatic solution to two
problems.

First, the current annual allotment of H-1B visas reverted dramatically two
years ago to 65,000 from a temporary level three times higher set during the
dot-com boom, leaving far too few visas for the demand.

And second, the federal budget deficit has left Congress scrambling for ways to
increase revenue. So when lawmakers began considering an increase in visa fees,
the high-tech industry demanded an increase in the numbers of the controversial
visas as well.

''Any increase in fees . . . without an appropriate increase in the number of
available visas will equate to a tax on competitiveness and we will oppose it,''
Rhett Dawson, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, wrote
last week to Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Arlen Specter, R-Pa.

Under a proposal by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., the annual number of H-1B
visas would increase from 65,000 to 95,000. The increase was approved by the
Judiciary Committee after it rejected a proposal by Specter for an increase of
twice the size, to 125,000 a year.

High-tech executives have been pushing for more of the controversial H-1B visas,
which critics say displace American workers in favor of less expensive
foreigners beholden to the company that sponsors them.

The fate of the proposed increase is uncertain. The measure, which also would
raise the fee employers pay for each six-year visa by $500, was added to a broad
budget bill intended to save $300 million over the next five years.

The legislation still must be approved by the full Senate and reconciled with a
version in the House of Representatives that does not make any changes to the
H-1B visa program.

The House has proposed increasing fees by $1,500 for L-1B visas, which companies
use to transfer foreign employees already working for them abroad to the United
States. Feinstein's proposal also included an L-1B visa increase, but only of
$750. The current fee for L-1B visas is $685; it is $2,185 for H-1B visas, with
an optional $1,000 expedited processing fee that most companies pay because of
the high demand.

Under intense pressure from Silicon Valley during the Internet boom, Congress
temporarily boosted the annual number of visas in 1998 and again in 2000 to
address high-tech worker shortages. The annual number of visas peaked at 195,000
from 2001 to 2003 before dropping to 65,000 in 2004.

Last year, Congress passed legislation exempting as many as 20,000 additional
H-1B visas a year for foreign workers with advanced degrees from U.S.
universities. But there still have not been enough H-1B visas to meet demand.

''Right now, with our shrinking production of math and science majors, they just
can't fill the jobs,'' said Kara Calvert, a lobbyist with the Information
Technology Industry Council, which includes leading tech companies such as
Intel, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard.

The federal government cut off applications for 2006 visas on Aug. 12 -- more
than two months before the fiscal year began.

But Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who helped champion the huge increases in H-1B
visas passed by Congress in 1998 and 2000, said Thursday that making changes to
the program in a budget bill was not appropriate.

She said it is an immigration matter that should be the subject of hearings, not
dealt with in a ''backhanded'' way through the budget process.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@ krwashington.com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              276 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 21, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

46% boost in tech visas proposed;
SENATE PANEL OKS H-1B HIKE TO 95,000

BYLINE: By Jim Puzzanghera; Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 640 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A Senate committee Thursday approved a nearly 50 percent increase in special
visas coveted by Silicon Valley companies to hire highly skilled foreign workers
and boosted application fees to help ease the federal budget deficit.

The actions, which still are several steps from becoming law, are less a
statement of job growth in the tech sector than a pragmatic solution to two
problems.

First, the current annual allotment of H-1B visas reverted dramatically two
years ago to 65,000 from a temporary level three times higher set during the
dot-com boom, leaving far too few visas for the demand.

And second, the federal budget deficit has left Congress scrambling for ways to
increase revenue. So when lawmakers began considering an increase in visa fees,
the high-tech industry demanded an increase in the numbers of the controversial
visas as well.

''Any increase in fees . . . without an appropriate increase in the number of
available visas will equate to a tax on competitiveness and we will oppose it,''
Rhett Dawson, president of the Information Technology Industry Council, wrote
last week to Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Arlen Specter, R-Pa.

Under a proposal by Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., the annual number of H-1B
visas would increase from 65,000 to 95,000. The increase was approved by the
Judiciary Committee after it rejected a proposal by Specter for an increase of
twice the size, to 125,000 a year.

High-tech executives have been pushing for more of the controversial H-1B visas,
which critics say displace American workers in favor of less expensive
foreigners beholden to the company that sponsors them.

The fate of the proposed increase is uncertain. The measure, which also would
raise the fee employers pay for each six-year visa by $500, was added to a broad
budget bill intended to save $300 million over the next five years.

The legislation still must be approved by the full Senate and reconciled with a
version in the House of Representatives that does not make any changes to the
H-1B visa program.

The House has proposed increasing fees by $1,500 for L-1B visas, which companies
use to transfer foreign employees already working for them abroad to the United
States. Feinstein's proposal also included an L-1B visa increase, but only of
$750. The current fee for L-1B visas is $685; it is $2,185 for H-1B visas, with
an optional $1,000 expedited processing fee that most companies pay because of
the high demand.

Under intense pressure from Silicon Valley during the Internet boom, Congress
temporarily boosted the annual number of visas in 1998 and again in 2000 to
address high-tech worker shortages. The annual number of visas peaked at 195,000
from 2001 to 2003 before dropping to 65,000 in 2004.

Last year, Congress passed legislation exempting as many as 20,000 additional
H-1B visas a year for foreign workers with advanced degrees from U.S.
universities. But there still have not been enough H-1B visas to meet demand.

''Right now, with our shrinking production of math and science majors, they just
can't fill the jobs,'' said Kara Calvert, a lobbyist with the Information
Technology Industry Council, which includes leading tech companies such as
Intel, Cisco and Hewlett-Packard.

The federal government cut off applications for 2006 visas on Aug. 12 -- more
than two months before the fiscal year began.

But Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who helped champion the huge increases in H-1B
visas passed by Congress in 1998 and 2000, said Thursday that making changes to
the program in a budget bill was not appropriate.

She said it is an immigration matter that should be the subject of hearings, not
dealt with in a ''backhanded'' way through the budget process.

Contact Jim Puzzanghera at jpuzzanghera@ krwashington.com or (202) 383-6043.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              277 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 21, 2005 Friday MO1 EDITION

H-1B VISA LIMITS

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 59 words


The annual number of H-1B visas that allow skilled foreign workers into the
country to work for high-tech firms has fluctuated over the past few years. A
U.S. Senate committee approved a 50 percent increase Thursday. Before becoming
law, the bill must be approved by the full Senate and reconciled with a
competing House bill.

Year H-1B visas

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              278 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday

California news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 690 words

LOS ANGELES

Lawyers urge release of Islamic fundraiser

Lawyers for a top fundraiser for an Islamic charity allegedly linked to
terrorism asked a federal magistrate to release him on bond Monday, arguing that
his detention for 16 1/2 months with no end in sight as he fights deportation is
a violation of law.

Dozens of members of the Southern California Muslim community turned out to show
support for Abdel-Jabbar Hamdan, 44, a founder of a mosque in Anaheim who has
lived in the area for about 20 years but never became a citizen.

Some of his six children, born in the United States, were present at the
hearing.

Attorneys for the American Civil Liberties Union who argued for Hamdan's release
on bond said he had been held longer than any other detainee in any similar
immigration case.

Lawyers also argued that Hamdan is unjustly being subjected to guilt by
association.

They reiterated the argument he has made from the beginning: that he was unaware
that the Holy Land Foundation for which he was the chief fundraiser was
affiliated with the Hamas organization.

ORANGE COUNTY

GOP fends off challenge in special election

A Republican-endorsed state senator fought off a strong third-party challenger
Tuesday to win a vacant congressional seat in a race that placed the spotlight
on national immigration policy at a time when the issue threatens to split the
GOP.

John Campbell, a state senator, the favorite in the 48th District election to
replace former Rep. Christopher Cox, received 41,450 votes, or 45 percent, in
unofficial returns with all precincts reporting and absentee ballots counted.
Steve Young, the Democratic candidate, was second with 25,926 votes, or 28
percent.

Jim Gilchrist, a founder of the Minuteman Project civilian border watch who ran
on a one-issue platform of immigration reform, trailed with 23,237 votes, or 25
percent.

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Lawmaker's resignation letter read in House

Rep. Randy ``Duke'' Cunningham formally submitted his resignation letter Tuesday
to House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill.

Under House procedures, reading clerk Paul Hays acknowledged receipt of the
letter and read it to members of Congress. The letters said, in part, ``I am
resigning from the House of Representatives because I have discredited my high
office and the party that I love.''

Cunningham, R-San Diego, resigned last week after pleading guilty to taking $2.4
million in bribes to steer business to defense contractors.

As of Friday, his congressional office was under the control of the Clerk of the
House.

LAGUNA NIGUEL

Maker of surfboard blank forms to close

Clark Foam, which held a virtual monopoly on the manufacture of blank forms used
to create the world's surfboards, has closed its doors because it has violated
pollution and safety regulations and would need millions of dollars to comply in
the future, its owner said.

The company, a pioneer in the design and production of polyester boards,
announced Monday that it was immediately closing its doors.

That left surf shops and board manufacturers scrambling.

The company made 700 to 1,000 blanks a day and its closing will throw hundreds
of employees out of work, not to mention small-time surfboard manufacturers,
Mauro said.

Larger manufacturers may be able to get some blanks from Australian and other
manufacturers but in the short term there will be higher prices and a shortage
of product, he said.

PASADENA

NASA to build plant to clean up toxic wells

The Pasadena City Council approved a deal calling for NASA, operator of the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory, to build a treatment plant that will remove the toxic
chemical perchlorate from four city-owned water wells.

Perchlorate was first detected in the Monk Hill aquifer eight years ago and the
city has been pressing NASA to take responsibility for the contamination and pay
to treat the local groundwater. The city had to close nine wells because of
perchlorate contamination.

City officials said it was hoped the agreement signals NASA's willingness to pay
for cleanup of perchlorate contamination at a second site, the Sunset basin,
where five additional wells have been taken out of service.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              279 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words

LOUISIANA

Activists sue to stop razing of buildings

Under pressure from community activists, New Orleans agreed Wednesday not to
begin demolishing thousands of hurricane-damaged homes before a court hearing
next week.

The agreement came hours after activists sued to stop the city from moving ahead
with plans to raze 2,500 buildings without court hearings or owners' consent.

A hearing is set for Jan. 6 before a state judge.

OHIO

Judge orders suspected Nazi guard deported

An immigration judge in Cleveland on Wednesday ordered John Demjanjuk, a retired
autoworker accused of being a Nazi concentration-camp guard, deported to his
native Ukraine.

Demjanjuk, 85, has been fighting to stay in this country since the 1970s. He was
suspected of being the brutal guard nicknamed ``Ivan the Terrible'' and was
nearly executed in Israel.

Chief U.S. Immigration Judge Michael Creppy ruled that there was no evidence to
substantiate Demjanjuk's claim that he would be tortured if deported to his
homeland.

Demjanjuk lost his U.S. citizenship after a judge ruled in 2002 that documents
from World War II prove he was a Nazi guard at various death camps or
forced-labor camps.

TEXAS

DeLay wins a skirmish in state appeals court

The state's highest criminal court has asked prosecutors to respond to former
House Majority Leader Tom DeLay's request that the charges against him be
dismissed.

The all-Republican appeals court in Austin on Tuesday gave prosecutors a week to
submit arguments regarding the request filed Friday by DeLay attorney Dick
DeGuerin. The court will decide whether to take the case after the prosecutors'
response is received.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              280 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

Immigrant rights protesters continue hunger strike;
SUBHEAD

BYLINE: Dana Hull, Mercury News

LENGTH: 153 words


Twenty immigrant rights protesters began day five of a hunger strike in front of
the federal building in San Francisco Saturday.

The hunger strikers have joined thousands of others nationwide in protesting a
Senate bill they fear would criminalize illegal immigrants and the social and
religious workers who assist hem. The protesters, who have set up tents in front
of the federal building, are demanding that Sen. Dianne Feinstein, take a stand
against the legislation.

The hunger strike began on Tuesday, March 21.

Also this weekend, a number of Bay Area congregations -- including Most Holy
Trinity Catholic Church and St. Julies Catholic Church in San Jose -- will hold
special masses Sunday to bless their priest, pastor or rabbi as they prepare to
head to Washington for a silent vigil in the halls of the Senate to protest the
legislation.

For more information, go to http://www.immigrantrights.org/hunger_strike.asp

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              281 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

English already is `official' in California

BYLINE: Dana Hull, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words


The U.S. Senate voted this week to make English the national language of the
United States, a controversial move that has been lauded by the White House but
condemned by many immigrant rights groups.

But guess what?

English has been the ``official'' language of California since 1986, when voters
passed Proposition 63.

You'd barely know it.

The Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters prints ballots in English, Spanish,
Vietnamese, Chinese and Tagalog. California drivers can take the written license
exam in 31 languages, from Amharic, which is spoken in Ethiopia, to Thai. You
can view the state's online Megan's Law database of registered sex offenders in
Portuguese or Punjabi.

``You can't say, `Everyone eat healthy,' and then stand on the corner passing
out cookies,'' said Rob Toonkel of U.S. English, a citizens action group that
says it is dedicated to preserving the unifying role of the English language in
the United States. ``California passed an official English bill in 1986 and has
spent 20 years going in the opposite direction.''

Proposition 63, which received 73 percent of the vote in 1986, was largely
symbolic, sending a message to immigrants that they should learn to speak
English if they expected to live in California. The measure directed the state
to ``preserve, protect and strengthen the English language,'' but did not call
for any specific action or enforcement. Twenty-six other states have
official-English laws on the books.

Scott Walker of San Jose said Friday that he had no idea that the law existed in
California. But he wholeheartedly supports it and said he is glad that the
Senate finally took action.

``California is too wishy-washy. We have to enforce the law, or we're going to
lose our country's heritage,'' said Walker, an engineer. ``If I go to Mexico,
I'm expected to speak Spanish. If I go to Italy, I'm supposed to know Italian.
It should be the same here.''

A host of federal laws, in particular provisions of the Voting Rights Act that
require election information be made available in other languages, trump the
state initiative.

``People say that being able to vote in their native language really helps
them,'' said Elma Rosas, a representative for the Santa Clara County Registrar
of Voters. ``They can vote independently and don't have to rely on a relative or
friend to translate.''

It's unclear how such provisions would fare if a national official English law
is passed by both houses of Congress. On Thursday, conservatives added language
to a Senate immigration reform bill that said no one has a ``right, entitlement
or claim'' to receive bilingual information from the U.S. government. But the
Senate also accepted a competing Democratic amendment that establishes English
as the ``common and unifying language'' of the United States -- but specifies
that it doesn't ``diminish or expand'' existing rights to bilingual information.

Advocates of making English an official or national language argue that English
fluency is critical to becoming an active U.S. citizen. They think the
government needs to spend fewer tax dollars on providing courtroom translators
and more on teaching English to non-native speakers.

The current national debate about immigration, as well as the Senate's action
this week, will undoubtedly renew interest in state measures. And the language
issue came to the forefront a few weeks ago, when immigrant-rights supporters
sang the national anthem in Spanish in demonstrations across the nation,
prompting President Bush, among many others, to say it should be sung only in
English.

Critics of official English laws worry that even a symbolic gesture will further
fuel anti-immigrant sentiment and could intimidate non-English speakers from
seeking health care at public hospitals or emergency services.

``People want to learn English, but it does take time. And for older people,
it's really difficult,'' said Jackie Maruhashi of the Asian Law Alliance in San
Jose.

But supporters say speaking English is the American way.

``We've always been a melting pot, and a big portion of that was that everyone
learned to speak English,'' said Ted Costa of People's Advocate, a taxpayer
organization that was active in the Proposition 63 campaign 20 years ago and
more recently spearheaded the recall of Gov. Gray Davis.

Costa wishes that Proposition 63 had had more of an effect -- but believes it's
an important statement nonetheless. He hopes a stronger federal law might
actually require more people to learn and use English. ``We feel it should be
the common language, so that we can all talk to one another,'' he said.

Mercury News wire services contributed to this report. Contact Dana Hull at
dhull@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-2706.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              282 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 3, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Republicans propose cuts to food stamps;
LEGAL IMMIGRANTS AMONG THOSE AFFECTED

BYLINE: By Jonathan Weisman; Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 539 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


House Republicans are pushing to cut tens of thousands of legal immigrants off
food stamps, partially reversing President Bush's efforts to win Latino votes by
restoring similar cuts made in the 1990s.

The food-stamp measure is just one of several provisions in an expansive
congressional budget-cutting package that critics say unfairly target the poor
and disadvantaged, especially poor children.

The House Budget Committee is scheduled today to fold eight separate
budget-cutting bills saving $50 billion through 2010 into a single measure and
then send it to the floor for a vote next week. The Senate also is set to vote
on its version of the budget-cutting package -- a smaller, $39 billion savings
measure with broad reach, affecting Medicare, Medicaid, agriculture programs,
private pension plans and energy -- that does not cut food stamps.

The Senate action also will feature a showdown over a bid to open Alaska's
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, as well as confrontations over
limits to agriculture subsidies, Medicaid payments and Hurricane Katrina relief.

While concerns about runaway spending for the war and disaster relief have
dominated the debate over the budget until now, lawmakers in both chambers have
been quietly drafting changes to major spending and entitlement programs that
will affect millions of Americans, including the fast-growing immigrant
population.

The food-stamp cuts in the House bill would knock nearly 300,000 people off
nutritional-assistance programs, including 70,000 legal immigrants, according to
the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Those immigrants would lose
their benefits because the House measure would require legal immigrants to live
in the United States for seven years before receiving food stamps, rather than
the current five years.

About 40,000 children also would lose eligibility for free or reduced-price
school lunches, the CBO estimated.

House GOP leaders say the broad measure would root out government inefficiency
and waste, while confronting the hard choices posed by stubbornly high budget
deficits and the costs of war and natural disasters. Even $50 billion is just a
minuscule nick out of the $7.8 trillion in federal entitlement spending expected
over the next five years.

''We're cutting, but we're also changing things to try to make them fit today's
needs better,'' House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., said Wednesday. But some
Republicans worry that social-services cuts, while relatively small, will have
outsize political ramifications, especially when Republicans move in the coming
weeks to cut taxes for the fifth time in as many years. Those tax cuts, totaling
$70 billion over five years, would more than offset the deficit reduction
exacted by the budget cuts.

Jennifer Ng'andu, a health- and social-policy analyst at the National Council of
La Raza, highlighted the symbolism of the provision: It is the only item in the
budget bill targeted at immigrants.

''Going back on this is a reversal of all the achievements Bush has made with
immigrants,'' she said. ''These are lawful residents, good enough to die for our
country in Iraq but not good enough to get food stamps.''

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              283 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 5, 2005 Saturday

Latin America in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 284 words

BRAZIL

Group is accused of human trafficking

Brazilian police have dismantled a gang that specialized in smuggling illegal
immigrants into the United States through Mexico and arrested six of the group's
leaders, authorities said Friday.

The arrests Thursday followed an investigation that began last year in the
western state of Rondonia and spread to nine other states in Brazil. The group's
leaders face charges ranging from larceny and falsifying documents to money
laundering and human trafficking, said Glauce Paiva, a federal police official.

Over the past two years, authorities believe that the gang sent at least 120
Brazilians a month to Mexico for illegal entry into the United States, Paiva
said. She said police were investigating the group's links to Mexican smugglers,
and said the six suspects were just the ``tip of an iceberg that involves many
more people in and outside Brazil.''

Authorities opened the investigation after noticing an unusual rise in the
number of passport requests -- from 1,593 in 2003 to 4,449 so far this year,
Paiva said.

ARUBA

New witnesses, leads in teen disappearance

Aruban prosecutors said Friday that they have new witnesses and leads into the
disappearance of a U.S. teen who vanished on a school trip to the Dutch
Caribbean island more than five months ago.

Natalee Holloway, then 18, was last seen early May 30 leaving a bar with Dutch
national Joran van der Sloot and Surinamese brothers Deepak and Satish Kalpoe.
They were arrested June 9 but released after a court ruled there was not enough
evidence to hold them.

Prosecutors did not provide details about any new developments and did not
return telephone calls seeking comment.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              284 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday

Latin America in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 197 words

MEXICO

Border-shooting figure had smuggling record

A young Mexican man allegedly shot and killed by a U.S. Border Patrol agent had
been detained in the United States 11 times for human smuggling, a Border Patrol
official said Wednesday.

The shooting of Guillermo Martínez has intensified an already white-hot
international debate about illegal immigration, and prompted Mexico to open a
criminal investigation and send a diplomatic note to Washington.

Opposition lawmakers have accused President Vicente Fox's government of not
expressing sufficient outrage, however, and approved a non-binding resolution
condemning the shooting and demanding it be punished.

6.7-magnitude quake centered off Baja

A 6.7-magnitude earthquake occurred in the pre-dawn hours Wednesday off the
coast of the Baja California Peninsula in the Gulf of California, the U.S.
Geological Survey's National Earthquake Center in Golden, Colo., reported.

The quake occurred about 2:32 a.m. (12:32 a.m. PST), and was centered about 56
miles northeast of Santa Rosalia, Baja California. The quake occurred at an
estimated depth of six miles, the center reported.

The area is sparsely populated.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              285 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

CURRENT LAW

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words


Penalties for illegal residents and employers who knowingly hire them:

Civil violations

First employer offense: $250 to $2,000 fine per violation.

Second offense: $2,000 to $5,000.

Third offense: $3,000 to $10,000.

Improperly filling out I-9 forms verifying employee eligibility: $100 to $1,000
per form.

Overstaying visas: Ineligible to return to the United States for at least three
years for overstays of more than six months, at least 10 years for overstays of
more than a year.

Criminal violations

Unlawful entry: A criminal misdemeanor subject to six months in prison.
Subsequent offenses up to two years.

Unlawful re-entry after deportation: A felony, up to 10 years in prison.

Those who engage in a pattern or practice of knowingly hiring illegal
immigrants: Fine up to $3,000 per hire, up to six months in prison.

HOUSE BILL

Penalties for illegal immigrants and employers who knowingly hire them:

Civil violations

First employer offense: $5,000 to $7,500 per violation.

Second offense: $10,000 to $15,000.

Third offense: $25,000 to $40,000.

Improperly filling out I-9 forms verifying employee eligibility: $1,000 fine to
$25,000 per violation.

Criminal violations

Unlawful entry: Felony, up to a year and a day in prison.

Overstaying visas (or, unlawful presence): a felony, up to a year and a day in
prison.

Those who engage in a pattern or practice of knowingly hiring illegal aliens: Up
to $50,000 fine and no less than a year in prison.

SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE

Penalties for illegal immigrants and employers who knowingly hire them:

Civil violations

First employer offense: $500 to $4,000 per violation.

Second offense: $4,000 to $10,000.

Third offense: $6,000 to $20,000.

Improperly filling out I-9 forms verifying employee eligibility: $200 to $2,000
per form.

Criminal violations

Those who engage in a pattern or practice of knowingly hiring illegal aliens: Up
to $20,000 fine, up to six months in prison.

Unlawful entry: No change in current law.

Overstaying visas: No change.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              286 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 3318 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

I want us to live by the sentiment engraved on the Statue of Liberty - "Give me
your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The
wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed
to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!" However we should do so sensibly,
fairly and without recrimination.

We should control the process. Everyone wishing to come to the United States
temporarily or permanently should submit to a process that determines whether
they are honest and crime free.

The biggest offenders and contributors to the present immigration mess are the
government that has ignored the existing laws and the employers who have hired
illegals. My main objection to the wrong committed by the illegals is that they
are line jumpers. In my opinion they have usurped the waiting list for entry to
this country in an egregious manner.

Their punishment should not be deportation. They should be moved to the end of
the line. But only if they come forward and submit to processing in a timely
manner. If they do not come forward in a reasonable time they should be barred
from achieving citizenship forever. Their children born in the United States
should not automatically be citizens. Those children, when they become
responsible adults should move to the end of the line.

Any illegals that have broken serious criminal laws such as drug trafficking,
violent crimes, and income tax evasion should be treated harshly and deported
after serving their prison terms.

The huge demonstrations planned to control the debate and action in congress on
this issue to achieve complete amnesty is an affront to me. It angers me, a lot.
I shall vote accordingly and I bet others will also.

A very liberal guest worker plan seems an absolute requirement to resolving the
problem. Employers that hire undocumented aliens should be fined in a
progressive manner. An employer that hires one or two illegals per day should be
fined $50 per day or part per illegal employee. Hiring three to ten illegals per
day or part should be fined $100 per day per employee. Above ten the fine should
be $1,000 per day or part. Whistle blowers should receive half the fine as a
reward. We would need to have a fraud resistant green card. J think we have that
technology.

Simultaneously, a sensible broad spectrum three to five year plan for securing
the border, much better than presently, needs to be part of the law. It should
be what is necessary to accomplish the task and resources should be dedicated to
the task. The plan should use an economically feasible menu of resources.
Initially, employing 10,000 to 20,000 national guard to augment the program
makes sense. But, this should only be for a limited time. Other actions should
be building key fences, building up the staffing of border guards to the 10,000
plus level. To the extent that technology can reduce the people staffing, that
should be done. But, staff first to stop the flow or greatly reduce it. Then
reduce the force when fences and technology have demonstrated their
effectiveness.

For a plan to work it needs to do all the remedial actions. Piece meal is doomed
to failure.

John Lekashman, San Jose

As the granddaughter of an Italian Immigrant who came legally to this country, I
feel inclined to eorrect the headline to read: THIS COUNTRY WAS BUILT BY LEGAL
IMMIGRANTS. It comes across as arrogant not only to make an inaccurate statement
but also to "demand" that congress abandon the reform proposals. People from
over 50 countries speaking as many languages sought to immigrate to the United
States in 1904 when my grandfather arrived, as they seek to immigrate today in
2006. Legal permission should be granted in equal percentages to persons among
the 50 or more nationalities and countries who apply to come here legally.
Special or larger quotas should not be permitted for anyone nationality.

In a recent article on world population in the National Geographic magazine it
was recommended that the US would be wise to limit immigration to the USA from
all countries in order to control the growing overpopulation of our country, a
matter that started raising concerns as long ago as the 1960s. As far as cheap
labor is concerned, teens now complain that they can no longer get summer and
after school jobs picking produce, working in canneries or fast food
restaurants, as their parents did, because immigrants (perhaps illegal?) get the
jobs.

Immigrants who come legally and in equal proportions from all countries should
be welcomed and treated with every respect and privilege- But make it legal, and
limit the numbers so that our own population growth will be kept in check. As
far as printing our ballots in several languages, I feel that if persons from
other countries want to make the USA their home. they should learn to speak,
write and vote in English as my predecessors did. I'm proud of them. Thank you
Nonno Genaro!

Rita R. Baum, Los Gatos

As a chemical engineer knowledgeable about hydrogen I think President Bush's
talk about hydrogen as a fuel of the future for fuel cell powered cars and
trucks is wishful thinking. How is the enormous amount of hydrogen that will be
required going to be obtained?

Presently, hydrogen is produced by several commercial processes: reduction of
water by hot carbon (coal or coke), destruction distillation of coal, cracking
of methane and other hydrocarbons, and electrolysis of aqueous solutions. These
processes now produce only a very small percentage of the hydrogen that will be
needed for transportation.

Electrolysis of water, the ultimate process, requires enormous amounts of
electrical energy.Where will we get this energy? From wind turbines? Solar
cells? Not likely.

Arthur Engvall, Cupertino

In response to April 28th's opinion page on the energy crisis, I fully agree
with the Mercury News Editorial Board as well as Senator Diane Feinstein. The
Republicans and Democrats are having a field day trying to point the political
finger at each other and only creating solutions that will help a select group
of people in the short run. There's little that we can do now to help curb gas
prices immediately, but congress and the Bush administration have had many
chances to make things better in the long run.

Unfortunately, they were to busy giving the big oil companies unnecessary
government subsidies as well as failing to improve fuel efficiency standards of
the nations tank-like SUV's and light trucks. The current technology is
available to make these `land yachts` get virtually the same mileage as smaller
cars. The time has come to make car manufactures embrace the idea that demand
for fuel efficient SUV's, cars, and trucks will soon skyrocket, if it hasn't
already. If not, the political blame game will never end and the America's
citizens will be the ones paying the price.

Matthew Pickard, San Jose

Sen. Feinstein's "Another View" (April 28) did a good job of spewing the
liberals "talking points" on the oil and gas industry. She stated that "time has
come to shine some light on the oil and gas industry." Sen. Feinstein, they all
report audited financial statement, try reading one!!

Let take Exxon as an example. Since George Bush has been in office (the time
frame Sen. Feinstein wants to use) Exxon has had sales of $1.3 trillion dollars.
Exxon has made a profit of $109.7 billion dollars (an 8.4 percent net profit).
Exxon has paid $65.7 billion in income tax (a 37.5 percent tax rate), Exxon has
also paid out $120.8 billion in excise tax and $187.3 billion in other tax and
duties. Exxon's stock has increased in value by 52.23 percent and Exxon has paid
dividends of $6.77 while Bush has been in office! Lets compare the net profit
for other industries: Semiconductor 14.1 percent, Computer Systems 5.4 percent,
Telecom Services 9.6 percent, Software 10.8 percent, Media-Newspapers 10.3
percent, and Integrated Oil and Gas 10.3 [percent. I don't see any "WINDFALL
PROFITS." Exxon is actually below the industry average.

As for your great ideas. First, everyone quotes the New York Mercantile Exchange
as the market price of crude oil. Secondly, impose a windfall tax (?), what net
profit percent is excessive? Third, improve the fuel efficiency of SUVs, what
type of vehicle does Sen. Feinstein travel around Washington in? Fourth, ban
price gouging, gas and oil are traded on a free market basis. Fifth, end royalty
relief for energy companies, FYI a $7 billion handout is a drop in the bucket
anyway.

I can only think of Dan Akroyd's response to Jane Curtain from SNL after her
"views" as a response to Sen. Feinstein. I would also like to know if Sen.
Feinstein and her husband paying a 37.5 percent tax rate? Exxon is paying
excessive taxes Sen. Feinstein .

Kevin Spry, San Jose

Our legislators obviously spent more time in "how to get elected" class than in
economics. The price of gas follows the age old law of supply and demand so if
they want to lower the price, they need to increase the supply or lower the
demand. I would make the following suggestions: 1) Cancel all the regulatory
requirements so more refineries will be built.

2) Allow drilling in all of our resource locations.

3) Standardize the composition of gas throughout the nation The third item will
give relatively quick relief but the other two will require significant time to
have an impact but will avoid future panics.

To help our pocket books during the current spike in cost, I recommend the
following:

1) Cut all of the pork out of the budget.

2) Eliminate all subsidies (let supply and demand work).

3) Forego yet another fruitless investigation into oil company price
manipulation.

4) Cut taxes commensurate with the savings from items 1 through 3 so Joe Public
can afford the current price of gas.

Our founding Fathers must be turning over in their graves at the way our
politicians spend their energy trying to buy votes rather than looking out for
the welfare of the nation.

Lyle Topham, Saratoga

While the news is full of politicians scapegoating oil companies and promising
relief, the one truth that puts it all into perspective is almost never
mentioned-oil is expensive because we can't find and produce it as fast as we
are depleting it. Why? Because the easy oil is all used up.

It is not about technology or economics, or greed, or tax policy; it is geology.
The big easy oil fields were found and pumped first, the harder, smaller, less
efficient ones are being developed last. We will probably never produce as much
oil as we are producing today. In fact, in the last 25 years there has not been
a single year where we found as much new oil as we used that year, no matter how
much money and fancy technology has been applied to the problem.

The answer? We have to get off oil and learn how to live well with less. Not
just 10 percent less. More like 75 percent less. This sounds like a lot, and it
is, but in reality, the first 40 percent is mostly waste and inefficiency. The
remaining part can come from energy-wise choices in our countries, cities,
businesses, farms and homes. It also means redefining what we mean by "growth."

When growth is defined by how many of us live decent, safe, sustainable lives,
then we have a chance of coping. If it continues to mean "how much needless junk
can we consume," then we are headed for a species-wide train wreck.

The old ways are ending. It's time to adapt.

Jeff Gilmore, Half Moon Bay

All that most of the politicians are doing is generating a lot of hot air, the
rest are using your pain at the pumps to get what they wanted all along.

The Bush Administration wants to allow more air pollution if it saves companies
money (no relief for you, only bad air), wants to allow drilling off the coast
of California and the Gulf state tourist areas (oil spills and loss of local
revenue there), wants to drill in the ANWR (maybe some relief ten years from
now), wants to leave the strategic reserve depleted (reducing American security
against another Oil Embargo), and wants to fund nuclear power plants (hoping you
have forgotten Three Mile island and Chernobyl).

Meanwhile they have cut the budgets for the National Renewable Energy Lab, cut
the program to reduce government energy use, cut funding for clean coal,
weakened efficiency standard for air conditioners (that would have saved energy
equivalent to that produced by 60 oil-fired power plants over the next 25
years), and continues to run questionable military operations and tests that use
more oil than the entire eastern seaboard. The Divine Strake test alone is going
to explode enough petroleum to run almost 1,000 automobiles for a year in a
single test!

Is this an energy plan that is doing anything that is good for you?

Meanwhile other politicians are pushing Ethanol (which helps corn farmers a lot,
but burns more oil to produce than it saves), pushing for a $100 rebate for you
(if your 15 gal. tank costs an extra $20 to fill, that will offset 5 fillings,
maybe a month or two-then what?), or looking for price gouging (a year too
late).

Why is it that none of them can step up to the plate with solutions that won't
foul our future? Raising fuel efficiency to 35 mpg will save more oil than the
ANWR contains in the years before you could get the first drop of oil in the
ANWR to the gas pump. Giving oil or energy companies a tax write-off for $50M of
profits from solar or wind generated energy the first year, $40M the sec ond,
etc. would give them a real profit motive to develop those sources into
meaningful operations. Allowing homeowners to write-off the cost of solarizing
would build a market across the country. We could fund meaningful mass transit
plans (yes, that means taxes) and require that new development fund the
connectivity from their development to the transit grid. There are many ways to
make meaningful progress, with only a small amount of pain for each of us to
share, that would leave our children a future worth inheriting.

Why aren't any of these coming from either party's politicians?

David Porter, Mountain View

SJSU Dean Wei and letter writer Robert Allgeyer are both right. Engineering is
increasingly unappealing to women ... and men. A greater percentage of women are
avoiding the profession because they are predisposed to be less tolerant of
required (and increasing) sacrifice of one's personal and family life, plus the
fact that there's no future in engineering since engineers are treated as
'resources' which tend to become disposable after age 50 (their decreasing
productivity negatively affects profitability). Dean Wei's ideas about changing
the engineering education won't fix this. To the detrement of our economy (re.
increasing need for engineers), American workers in general and older workers in
particular high tech executives would rather use H1-B visa workers to fill the
void they create (by treating engineers as disposable commodities) than fix the
problem because it's more cost effective. Dennis Olds, San Jose

When he came from the south or wherever to work on our farms, to clean our
houses, and to do day labor, I didn't mind. He was sending money home for his
family, and I understood the simple human desire to improve your situation in
life.

When he sent for his wife and children, though, I began to wonder about the
fairness of it all. When his mother, father, uncles and aunts arrived, I
wondered who was going to pay for the untax-supported services for them, and why
our government hasn't enforced the laws that give structure to our society.

When the Mexican government published a pamphlet with directions and
instructions for its citizens to travel here in the night across our borders,
and their Presidente scolded us for complaining, admittedly I was annoyed.

When our government finally awoke and began to debate the "problem," and the
angry, demanding protesters not only consisted of legal citizens but also those
who were not, I began to be irritated.

But now, at a time when they are urging over the radio for legal workers and our
children to miss work and school in order to support their protest, when they
want us to listen to them sing our national anthem in Spanish, I am into the
world of angry.

George E. Lawhon, Sunnyvale

On a recent episode of the Bill Maher show Mercury News columnist Victor Davis
Hanson, responding to a question about whether or not any occupying force had
ever been able to defeat a popular insurrection by the local population, proudly
cited America's war in the Philippines as such a victory. I suppose that to an
unreconstructed imperialist like Hanson America's shameful record in its first
colonial war is something to gloat over but to most of the world it was an
atrocity of major proportions.

The similarities between America's war in the Philippines and the current
conflict in Iraq are disturbing. Just as in the Philippines America had arrived
in Iraq claiming to be "liberators" but were quickly perceived as "occupiers" by
the locals and resisted and just as in the Philippines the U.S. quickly
discarded the rules of civilized warfare and began relying on torture and
intimidation to cow the freedom fighters into submission.

While it is true that America "won" in the Philippines it was at a terrible
cost, both to the local population and to the American military's self image.
The Philippine-American war was one of the first in which the U.S. resorted to
concentration camps, torture and a brutal scorched-earth policy which left
perhaps as many as a million Filipinos dead of hunger and disease. It was during
this war that General Jacob Hurd Smith, a hero of the Wounded Knee massacre,
gave the famous order to "kill everyone over the age of ten" and make the island
his troops were fighting to liberate a "howling wilderness." He went on to tell
his soldiers:

"I want no prisoners. I wish you to kill and burn, the more you kill and burn
the better it will please me. I want all persons killed who are capable of
bearing arms in actual hostilities against the United States."

And this is the example that Dr. Victor Davis Hanson would hold up as an example
of the victory of an occupying army against native insurgents? God help us all!

John Rickman, Cupertino

With all the bitter debate about illegal immigrants, often is the question
asked, "Why are they illegal?" When coming from Mexico, the answer for the vast
majority is simplye they can't come legally. Those who actually apply legally
are turned down by Mexican authorites unless they happen to have the "right
connection" in this country. If, by rare chance, Mexico would authorize a visa,
the U.S. Immigration would turn it down. So, these desparate people take their
lives in their hands and have to come illegally. Our daughter-in-law, a
university student in Mexico and a college student here and now a citizen, was
unable to leave legally. Perhaps we are addressing the wrong side of the
problem.

Richard A. Mahrer, San Jose

Regarding the recent controversy over the singing of the national anthem in
Spanish: Every year millions of Americans - both white and non-white, dance and
sing to the tune of another country's national anthem in English, and think
nothing of it.

What country is it and what is the name of the tune? A question for "Jeopardy"
and "Name that tune."

Roy L. Reynaga, San Jose

The Mercury News asks in the front page article what would happen if 100,000
illegal aliens in Santa Clara county were to vanish. First and foremost, our
taxed would suddenly drop dramatically. Welfare check for approximately 100,000
children of these illegas born in Los Angeles conty cost the taxpaying citizens
in that county $276 million dollars in 2005. The United States is the only
nation on earth that grants automatic citizenship to illegals born here. This
ridiculous law should be repealed now. Free this, free that, free citizenship,
it can't go on.

Robert L. Smith, San Jose

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              287 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

WORKING AGAINST ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 57 words

Rally in Santa Clara

What: ``National Anti-Illegal Alien Protest Rally Days''

When: Friday, 2 to 6 p.m.; Saturday, noon to 4 p.m.

Where: Central Park, 909 Kiely Blvd.

More info: www.illegal immigrant protest.com

Web sites

www.save ourstate.org

www.minuteman project.org

http://american patrol.com

www.alipac.us/ index.php

Source: Mercury News reporting

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              288 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 9, 2006 Tuesday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 1291 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Over sixty years ago, Nazi Germany could see that they would need more petroleum
products for their tanks and airplans. If I remember correctly, their production
experts came up with some form of synthetic gasoline. It was expensive, but
certainly better than going without this crucial material to run the miliary
machine. In this land of clever chemists where is such a program being
considered and/or developed?

President John Kennedy took us to the moon in ten years. Can we not find a
synthetic alternative to OPEC's impossible production demands? Sure...it will be
expensive. But just how much? And is it worth spending the time to start
something going? Everything is possilbe if we just use our brainpower.

John C Leathers, San Jose

So now the illegals are going to vote themselves into the U.S. I don't get it. I
thought you had to bea citizen in order to vote. Maybe all you need is a fake
Social Security card or a fake drivers license...or just a gutless Congress.

A.D. Sakelson, Santa Clara

If the H.R. 4437 Act passes, it will bring many harmful consequences. It seeks
to deport all undocumented immigrants back across the US-Mexico border. It also
seeks to prevent further illegal migration into the US. One of the points in the
Act that really caught my attention was the fact that it intends to punish all
those who takes any part in helping undocumented immigrants. "Section 205"
subjects an individual who knowingly aids or conspires to allow, procure, permit
a removed alien to reenter the United States to criminal penalty, the same
imprisonment imposed upon aliens who illegally enter the United States
(www.govtrack.us)

There are definitely different motives that can lead to crossing this
regulation. For example, someone who sees a struggling individual and therefore
lends a helping hand. If the situation is uncovered, it can lead to imprisonment
and/or other unnecessary consequences. There is nothing wrong when an individual
is only trying to do a humanitarian act. It is unfair that the government should
bar the individual from doing so.

It is ironic that the government is trying all that is in its power to rid of
undocumented immigrants, but at the same time know that they are vital to the US
economy. They fill jobs that the US population does not want to fill. Does the
government think them privileged to be in the US? Therefore want to send them
back!

Mailao Vue, Berkeley

This is in respond to article on "Law Making Should Ignores Immigrant
Lawbreakers." While I am sympathetic with their problems and why they came here
illegally, as well as our country's role in not enforcing current law; however,
if amnesty is granted to the current illegal "immigration" population, our
population will increase by fifty to seventy million due to existing law which
allows parents and family members to legally reside here. Also, it is unfair to
immigrants who obeyed the law and followed the rules, often at great personal
sacrifice, are being unfairly treated if an amnesty is implemented. Furthermore,
illegal `immigrants` have no rights under the Constitution. There is no country
in the world that allows both citizens and non-citizens to have the same legal
rights. I believe that America could and would have survive if every illegal
immigrant were suddenly taken back to their homelands of origin. America does
not stand on the backs of illegal immigrants. America is spoiled, yes. But
America is stronger than people think and we would come thorugh and be stronger
than we are now.

Tu-Uyen Pham, San Jose

Paul Krugman's observations about the recent JAMA study regarding American vs
British health was a good read and introduced some strong issues worthy of
future consideration. I say "future" because there is not now and there is not
likely to be anyone in a responsible position of authority for at least the next
three years to tackle the subject without the use of terms like "bad science"
and "fuzzy math". Health care, like so many other issues Americans are finally
beginning to take seriously, requires something of adult leadership with
tempered judgement and a willingness to listen to a concensus. Although Mr.
Krugman lightly hinted at what I believe to be the major culprit, he didn't
develop it in his article as completely as I might have liked; indeed, he seemed
to almost gloss over the possibility of a far greater malady that Americans have
which may have deeper health implications than any other country on earth. The
symptoms? To wit: We pay over 30% of our salaries in taxes to support illegal
wars we don't want, illegal people who don't belong here, law enforcement people
who don't enforce laws, health care people who don't provide health care,
political leaders who don't provide leadership, representatives of the People
who represent everything and everybody EXCEPT the American people; education for
kids who can't even find their own city on a map and funds for highways that are
among the worst among all Western civilized nations. We're expected to absorb
constant criticism and abuse from foreigners, residents, illegal immigrants,
foreign and domestic religious zealots and we're required to tolerate bigotry in
the name of the First Amendment while swallowing the blather from conservative
ostriches who insist that everything is just fine...even though gasoline has
doubled in price since the 2000 elections. And yet the same old burned out
political hacks and the out-of-touch, self-serving parties they represent
somehow find a way to dust off the name plates on their desks every four years
after returning to their offices from 3 years of fund raising. There's no doubt
in my mind: the diagnosis is clearly an acute case of toxic B.S. overdose.
There's no need for an M.D. after your name to figure that out. So you need
someone to blame for the sorry state of America's health? Look in the mirror
before you enter the voting booth.

Andy McKerral, San Jose

The prize of education is knowledge and know-how (savoir faire) and not a piece
of paper called a diploma. A diploma, any diploma at any level from pre-school
to high school to college to graduate or professional school, is simply a
certification that a person has been examined by those already at that level and
found at that point in time to possess the requisite knowledge and skills for
that level. The criteria of race, family background, national origin, past or
future opportunities, or any criteria other than those mentioned in the previous
sentence should play no role in the certification of the existence of knowledge
and know-how in a given person. Individuals either have what it takes, and have
earned the diploma, or they do not and should not be awarded the diploma;
otherwise, diplomas become meaningless.

Arturo Gonzalez, lead lawyer for a group of struggling students is both
misleading and providing a profound disservice to the students and many others
(including perhaps himself), when he says the following: "Until you have that
[equal education], you can't deprive students like these of the prize of
education, the diploma." If the students Gonzalez represents cannot pass the
exam, then they do not have the knowledge and have not earned the high school
diplomas they seek.

Further, the possession of a diploma in itself neither entitles an individual to
anything whatsoever nor does it create opportunities; knowledge and know-how do
that. If an individual is hired to do a job based on what they can do as
certified by a given diploma, and then they cannot deliver, then they will lose
that job and dilute the value of the diploma for all those who did actually earn
the right to it.

Robert R. Kerr, Cupertino

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              289 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

State agrees to send Guard to the border

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger announced Thursday that he would ``reluctantly'' sign
an agreement with the federal government to send National Guard troops to
curtail illegal immigration along the U.S.-Mexico border, ending more than two
weeks of ambivalence about the controversial presidential initiative.

About 1,000 soldiers will be in place by July 15 to assist the U.S. Border
Patrol with non-law-enforcement duties, Schwarzenegger said at a news
conference.

Most of the troops will be deployed for rotations lasting six months to a year,
and all would be withdrawn by December 2008, when the Border Patrol plans to
finish hiring an additional 6,000 agents.

``We will assist in a manner that protects our troops and uses our men and women
in the most effective and appropriate way possible,'' Schwarzenegger said. ``We
see great enthusiasm amongst our National Guard -- there's already 700
volunteers that have already shown interest in going on this mission.''

Schwarzenegger said the deployment is ``significantly'' different from what
President Bush initially proposed because of the duration of the assignment --
Bush called for rotations of two to three weeks.

Schwarzenegger also ordered the National Guard to ``rely principally on
volunteers'' so that troops who recently arrived from Iraq or other overseas
duty won't be reactivated involuntarily.

Bush on May 15 proposed a plan to send 6,000 National Guard soldiers to help
curtail illegal immigration, human smuggling and drug trafficking across the
four border states. Schwarzenegger, commander in chief of California's National
Guard, initially expressed skepticism to the director of the Department of
Homeland Security, which oversees the Border Patrol, and asked pointed questions
about the cost and duration of the deployment.

He learned only recently that the federal government would pay the estimated
cost of $6 million to $8 million a month.

``We wanted to make sure that the federal government is reimbursing us, and
paying us for this mission, and that California taxpayers don't get stuck with
that bill,'' Schwarzenegger said. ``That was extremely important.''

But the governor made clear Thursday he was still not thrilled with the idea.

``We are doing this, may I remind you, reluctantly,'' Schwarzenegger said.
``It's not my preference to send the National Guard to do this mission. But
under the circumstances, to help the federal government to secure our borders,
because that is our No. 1 concern.''

A statewide survey by the Public Policy Institute of California last week found
that likely voters rated immigration as the top issue they want candidates for
governor to discuss.

Many Democratic elected officials, including gubernatorial candidates Steve
Westly and Phil Angelides, oppose the deployment plan, saying the troops should
be available to respond to natural disasters and other state emergencies. But a
number of Republicans who oppose illegal immigration favor sending the troops.

Schwarzenegger said that if there were a major earthquake, flood, terrorist
attack or large-scale fire, ``we have enough men and women from the National
Guard that can immediately go into action, and we will have 16,500 of them
available and ready to go.''

Bush and Schwarzenegger, Republicans who are often squeezed between conservative
members of their party and growing numbers of Latino voters, have been grappling
in different ways about how to deal with illegal immigration.

Bush, who has been pushing for a guest-worker program, announced his plan to
send troops on the same day the U.S. Senate resumed its debate over legislation
to tighten the borders and also make legal status available for some of the
estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants.

Schwarzenegger, who opposes state legislation to allow illegal immigrants to
apply for driver's licenses, said he chose to deploy troops, in part, because
``I'm extremely concerned about terrorists, about potential terrorists, sneaking
across that border.''

The troops won't initially be armed -- ``We do not want to militarize the border
zone,'' Schwarzenegger said -- but if they are exposed to a dangerous
assignment, their commander can decide whether to equip them with 9mm handguns.

National Guard troops based in El Centro and San Diego have worked along the
border since at least 1991, assisting federal counter-drug programs.

For the upcoming assignment, the troops will take on supporting roles, including
repairing vehicles, building roads, using surveillance cameras, constructing
fences and operating radios to free up Border Patrol agents to detain migrants
and other illegal border-crossers.

``Our mission is to observe, report and provide border security for the U.S.
Border Patrol,'' said California National Guard Brig. Gen. Louis Antonetti. ``We
will not be involved in detention or detaining or holding of any detainees that
the Border Patrol has picked up.''

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              290 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            June 14, 2006 Wednesday

Wilson rejects Prop. 187 role in GOP defeats

BYLINE: DAVID S. BRODER

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 763 words


Out of the past and into the current controversy dividing the Republican Party
came former California Gov. Pete Wilson, charging into Washington this week to
argue that he had been right all along in trying to slam the door on illegal
immigration.

Far from dooming Republicans to a series of defeats in the most populous state,
Wilson argued, his championing in 1994 of Proposition 187, denying health care
and educational services to illegal immigrants and their children, anticipated
the kind of hard-line policy many Republicans have endorsed this year.

The old Marine, as unyielding now at 72 as he was during his eight years as
governor, may not be the spokesman the embattled House Republicans would choose
for their fight with the White House and the Senate over the immigration reform
bill now headed for a conference committee. Wilson is blamed by many
Republicans, including those around President Bush, for so alienating the
growing Hispanic vote in California that the state's hoard of electoral votes
have moved permanently into the Democratic column.

But Wilson, a former senator, rejected that charge at a Hudson Institute talk in
Washington. And, despite being a Bush appointee (to the Defense Policy Board, a
Pentagon advisory panel), he called on his former colleagues to resist White
House pressure on the House and Senate to pass a compromise bill that preserves
elements of the president's more generous approach and includes a path to
citizenship for the millions of illegal immigrants already here. He said the
only reason the Senate voted for a more generous bill in the first place was
that many senators had been ``intimidated.''

Wilson said the House Republicans are right in insisting that the Mexican border
be closed before any thought is given to a guest-worker program or anything
resembling amnesty. That was also the message the winner of last week's House
special election in the San Diego area, Republican Brian Bilbray, said voters
were sending when they chose him.

Build a wall the entire 2,000-mile length of the border, and do it first, Wilson
said, or else ``you'll have 20 million, 35 million, 50 million'' illegals in the
country.

Wilson, a former mayor of San Diego, offered a revisionist history of California
politics in defending his position. The 1994 campaign ad for which he became
famous -- a nighttime shot of shadowy figures sneaking across the border, while
the announcer intoned, ``They keep coming,'' was falsely depicted in the press,
he said, as an anti-immigrant message. It was aimed strictly at illegals, Wilson
said, and in defense of California taxpayers.

Did it cost Republicans California? Many have said so, noting that Democrats
have won every presidential race, every Senate contest and every regular
election for governor since Proposition 187 passed.

Arnold Schwarzenegger's victory in the 2003 recall election broke that spell,
Wilson said, and the blame for the earlier defeats can be assigned to the men
who were ``nice guys but not good candidates.'' As for the presidential races,
he said Bob Dole in 1996 and George W. Bush in his two campaigns really didn't
try hard enough for California.

That's his story, and he's sticking to it. But Sen. Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, one
of the principal sponsors of the Senate bill, isn't buying any of it. ``He
really misreads this,'' Hagel told me. ``The intimidation was all coming from
the other side,'' in the form of e-mails and phone calls denouncing the 23
Republicans who, like Hagel, voted for the Senate bill.

Hagel said the 2000-mile fence ``is just not practical'' and the ``20 million,
35 million, 50 million'' illegals flooding in are numbers Wilson pulled out of
the air. And Wilson's interpretation of California political history is equally
unpersuasive. ``California has become a wasteland for Republicans,'' Hagel said,
``with not one elected official except the governor, who got there by accident.
And you can't blame that all on candidates. Parties get a reputation from the
policies they support.''

Hagel made one other point: Those, like Wilson, who want only a border-closing
bill offer no policy for dealing with ``the 11 million illegals living in our
country or their 3 million legal children. Is the party of Abraham Lincoln going
to allow a permanent second class of people waiting to be citizens?''

The next few months of House-Senate negotiation will determine whether Pete
Wilson and Brian Bilbray or Chuck Hagel and George Bush speak for the Republican
Party.

DAVID S. BRODER is a Washington Post columnist. E-mail him at
davidbroder@washpost.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              291 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Health care proposal dropped from budget;
SENATE LEADER: INSURANCE PROGRAM IMPEDIMENT TO PASSAGE

BYLINE: Steven Harmon and Mike Zapler, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 690 words


Saying he didn't want children to be pawns in the budget battle, Senate
President Pro Tem Don Perata announced Monday that legislative leaders had
agreed to remove from budget negotiations a measure to expand health insurance
for children of illegal immigrants.

Perata, speaking at the Sacramento Press Club, vowed ``we will have a budget
sooner than later,'' but that children ``should not be a chess piece in this
game.''

The Oakland Democrat said the Legislature will argue over the Healthy Families
Program -- which has an estimated $300 million price tag and would cover more
than 250,000 children of illegal immigrants -- on its own merits later this year
as a piece of separate legislation.

Legislative leaders ``didn't want the budget to be hung up on that particular
point,'' Perata said, declaring the health insurance plan would be on the
governor's desk this year.

Lawmakers missed Thursday's constitutional deadline to pass a spending plan, in
part because Republicans objected to the Democrats' plan to expand health
insurance -- largely for children of illegal immigrants.

Currently, 780,698 are enrolled in the Healthy Families Program. The Democrats'
proposal would allow 311,000 children more into the program, including an
estimated 256,000 children of illegal immigrants.

Legislative leaders' taking the expansion off the table would clear the way for
a budget agreement. Assembly Speaker Fabian Núñez, D-Los Angeles, would not
comment on budget negotiations, his deputy chief of staff, Steven Maviglio,
said.

Any proposal to expand health care to children sets up a potentially awkward
moment for Schwarzenegger. The governor previously pledged to provide health
insurance to all children, regardless of their legal status. But if he supports
the Democratic bill, he runs the risk of demoralizing his Republican base --
just when he'll need them for his re-election. And if he vetoes it, Democrats
will accuse him of breaking his promise and rally Latinos to oppose him in
November.

State Treasurer Phil Angelides, the Democratic gubernatorial nominee, said at a
campaign stop Monday in San Jose that Schwarzenegger needs to make good on that
promise -- and restated his own promise to provide health insurance to all
children in California.

By reviving the Healthy Families expansion as a separate piece of legislation,
Democrats will be able to get it approved on a simple majority vote -- 41 votes
-- rather than the two-thirds required in a budget.

Senate Minority Leader Dick Ackerman, R-Tustin, said he's not concerned that the
governor might be hurt by his disagreement with members of his own party over
the health care issue. ``He's doing fine,'' Ackerman said.

While Perata's remarks cleared one hurdle in the budget negotiations, others
remain. One thorny issue for Republicans is a separate health care proposal by
Schwarzenegger.

The governor wants to send $22.8 million to some 18 counties with their own
programs, including Santa Clara and Alameda counties, to provide insurance for
children. The money would alleviate waiting lists for those programs -- but many
of those waiting for coverage are children of illegal immigrants.

It's the governor's proposal, Perata said, ``which he does not consider an
expansion, and we're supporting it.''

But Ackerman said Schwarzenegger's proposal would add to an assortment of public
benefits that draw illegal immigrants to California.

``The benefit package given for welfare, education and medical costs serve as a
magnet,'' Ackerman said. ``Some people come here to work, some people come here
to get the benefits.''

Schwarzenegger, though, has drawn a distinction between the more expansive
Democratic plan and his more modest proposal.

``There's a difference using a relatively small amount of money, on a one-time
basis, to eliminate waiting lists for children vs. an ongoing, large-scale
program'' that the Democrats wanted, said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for
Schwarzenegger's Department of Finance.

Disagreements also persist over whether to use $1 billion in surplus revenue to
pay off debt or put in a reserve fund.

Contact Steven Harmon at sharmon@cctimes.com or (916) 441-2101.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              292 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 19, 2006 Wednesday

Legal path loses ground;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS' SUPPORT DIPS IN POLL

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 526 words


A majority of Californians, and half of all state voters, support a plan that
would allow illegal immigrants already living and working in the United States
to become legal residents, according to a poll released Tuesday.

In the June poll, conducted in English and Spanish by the Survey and Policy
Research Institute at San Jose State University, 53 percent of Californians and
50 percent of voters said they favor a path to citizenship for illegal
immigrants. About 34 percent of adults in the state, and 35 percent of voters,
oppose the plan, according to the poll. In Silicon Valley, 55 percent of adults
support the idea, with 32 percent opposed.

When the institute asked the same question in March, support for illegal
immigrants was slightly higher: 59 percent of residents statewide and 54 percent
of voters. Thirty-one percent of residents and 36 percent of voters said they
were opposed to allowing illegal immigrants to become legal residents.

``What it suggests is the issue has heated up quite a bit,'' said Philip J.
Trounstine, the institute's director, ``and folks who are arguing against this
path to citizenship have made their voices better heard.''

The poll also reveals a stark age divide: Among residents 18 to 34 years old, 68
percent said they support the idea, and 19 percent said they oppose it. But
among residents 55 and older, 41 percent said they favor allowing illegal
immigrants to gain legal status, with 46 percent opposed.

``How is it that they can come into the United States -- in a trunk, 500 in a
van -- and then ask for citizenship?'' asked Lynette Garcia, 31, a San Jose
computer technician who participated in the poll. ``That's not right.''

Garcia said she is opposed to giving illegal immigrants a chance to become legal
U.S. residents.

Trounstine said it's difficult to say how the nationwide street marches that
drew millions of immigrants and their supporters in the spring have affected
opinions.

But Trounstine noted that a majority of residents and voters in California, home
to more immigrants than any other state, still support allowing undocumented
immigrants to gain legal status.

``That's powerful evidence that that idea is what most people think should be
done,'' he said.

The House of Representatives and the Senate continue to hold field hearings on
their contrasting legislative proposals. The two legislative chambers diverge on
how to address illegal immigration. The House wants to make it a felony to be in
the United States without legal immigration papers. The Senate has submitted a
plan that would give some undocumented immigrants a path to citizenship.

``I just hope that Congress really pays attention to these numbers,'' said
Larisa Casillas, policy director of Services, Immigrant Rights and Education
Network, a San Jose non-profit organization.

She said the poll's findings suggest that ``in California, where residents and
voters can't go a day without meeting or working with an immigrant, the public
recognizes that providing a pathway to undocumented immigrants to adjust their
status benefits the entire state.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews .com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              293 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 30, 2006 Saturday

Washington and national news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Frist scuttles bid for guest farmworkers

Majority Leader Bill Frist on Friday turned down efforts by several senators,
including California Democrat Dianne Feinstein, to help the agriculture industry
by giving illegal immigrant farmworkers temporary legal status.

Feinstein told the Senate that California and other states faced a ``crisis''
during harvests because of a severe labor shortage. She acknowledged that farms
rely on illegal workers to bring in crops. ``We just don't have the workforce to
harvest crops,'' she said.

Feinstein and Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, tried to add their jobs proposal to a
border-security measure as the Senate wrapped up business until after the
election, but Frist blocked the amendment.

Poll faults Congress on long-term issues

Americans are very worried about the long-term future of the country, and they
don't think Congress is paying attention to big issues on the horizon, like
Social Security and global warming, according to a survey released Friday.

The survey found 81 percent of respondents were very or somewhat worried about
Social Security, and just as many were very or somewhat worried about energy
issues. The findings were released by New York University's John Brademas Center
for the Study of Congress.

RHODE ISLAND

Relatives of fire victims oppose plea bargains

Angry relatives of concertgoers killed in a horrific 2003 nightclub fire sparked
by a band's pyrotechnics begged a judge in Warwick to change his mind about plea
deals for two brothers who owned the venue.

``Lady Justice in Rhode Island is blind, but she's also deaf,'' testified Jay
McLaughlin, the brother-in-law of victims Sandy and Michael Hoogasian. Other
family members applauded as he returned to his seat.

Judge Francis Darigan, wanting to avoid a long and heart-wrenching trial, said
as the hearing began that he would not reconsider the deals, which will give
Jeffrey Derderian no prison time and his brother Michael four years behind bars.
They pleaded no contest to 100 counts of involuntary manslaughter Friday
afternoon shortly before they were expected to be sentenced.

The brothers installed flammable foam in the Station nightclub that violated the
fire code and led to the 100 deaths. The foam was put in after neighbors
complained about loud music.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              294 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 3, 2005 Thursday MO1 EDITION

Bill to propose border fence;
2,000-MILE STRUCTURE COULD COST BILLIONS

BYLINE: By Erica Werner; Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A leading House Republican wants to build a fence along the entire 2,000-mile
U.S.-Mexico border, a plan that could cost billions of dollars and that critics
say would do little to stop illegal immigration.

Rep. Duncan Hunter of El Cajon, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
plans to announce legislation today to create a two-layer reinforced fence with
lighting and sensors from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico, a 100-yard
border zone to the north of the barriers, and 25 new ports of entry.

Currently, most of the westernmost 14-mile stretch of the border is lined with
parallel fencing and there's secure fencing at other vulnerable points, but long
stretches of the border are protected only by patchy barbed wire or nothing at
all.

''Illegal aliens continue to funnel directly into many of our local communities
and adversely impact our way of life by overwhelming our schools, inundating our
health care system and, most concerning, threatening our safety,'' said Hunter,
who was introducing the bill with Rep. Virgil Goode, R-Va. He said building a
fence and enforcing immigration laws could reverse the trends.

A conservative group called Let Freedom Ring that is promoting a border fence
estimates it would cost about $8 billion.

The plan is controversial. Republican Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado recently
announced his support, but Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, has said he doesn't think
a fence would stop illegal immigration.

Groups including National Council of La Raza, the largest U.S.-based Latino
advocacy group, oppose a fence.

''It doesn't really deal with why people are migrating or why our economy is so
dependent on their labor,'' said Cecilia Munoz, the group's vice president of
policy. ''The resourcefulness of people on both sides of the border is likely to
be greater than a fence.''

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              295 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            November 14, 2005 Monday

Forced into long-distance marriages;
IMMIGRANTS WITH WORK VISAS OFTEN MUST WAIT YEARS TO BRING NEW SPOUSES TO U.S.

BYLINE: Truong Phuoc Khánh, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words


Since his wedding day four years ago to a young lady from his boyhood village in
Bangladesh, Masud Syed has been back to see his wife exactly 10 times. The last
visit, in September, was both exhilarating and excruciating. He witnessed the
birth of his son; three weeks later, Syed flew back to America, alone.

In a post-Sept. 11 world, extremely long separations between newlyweds across
continents are a fact of life for many immigrants who come to the United States
to work. They end up staying as permanent residents, but their hearts summon
them back home when time comes to choose a mate.

Many Asians, from India to Korea to Vietnam, belong to cultures that still
engage in the practice of arranged marriages. Instead of ``love at first
sight,'' some call it ``love after introduction.''

But U.S. immigration laws do not allow permanent residents who marry after they
obtain their ``green cards,'' such as Syed, to have their spouses or children
stay with them in America while their green card applications are being
processed. The wait time varies from country to country, but it is currently
about five years for India, China and the Philippines.

A group started in the Bay Area in 2002 called UniteFamilies.org is working to
spotlight what its members say is unreasonable immigration policy. Its leaders
protest that recent rules leave thousands of legal, tax-paying U.S. residents in
emotional limbo, often forced to choose between marriage and a green card.

Many in Syed's predicament come to the United States as temporary workers with
an H-1B visa, which allows them to become permanent residents once they obtain a
green card. Of the 386,821 H-1B visas issued in fiscal year 2004, 152,723 were
for workers from Asia.

Thousands of miles apart, Syed says he and his wife, 24-year-old Linia, have
forged a deep bond. The couple talk by phone at least five times a week. She
scolds him if he leaves for work without breakfast.

``I have a picture of my son and my wife right in front of me at work,'' said
Syed, a 31-year-old electrical engineer who lives in Sunnyvale. ``At the end of
the day, I feel very empty. I call just to hear him cry, anything.''

``Part of the reason for avoiding visits

to India is I do not have courage

to look her in the eyes and tell her

that this separation will end soon as

I myself do not see any resolution

to our wait.''

-- Anis Kasmani, 32,

software engineer, Fremont

UniteFamilies has the backing of four Bay Area congressional leaders. They
co-sponsored a bill, HR 1823, that would allow families to live together in the
United States while waiting for green cards. The bill was referred to a
committee earlier this year, but with a conservative Republican majority in
power a pro-immigration bill has little chance of coming to a vote.

Supporting the bill, written by Democrat Rep. Robert Andrews of New Jersey, are:
Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose; Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto; Rep. Mike Honda,
D-Campbell; and Pete Stark, D-Fremont.

``They say people ought to play by the rules, but it ends with absurd results
sometimes,'' Lofgren said. ``If you look at it broadly, what public policy is
being served here? None.''

Another way to gain entry to the United States, through the State Department's
visitor visa, is all but impossible since the law requires applicants to prove
they are not coming to stay. Anecdotally, many say as soon as they disclose they
are visiting a spouse in the United States who is a permanent resident, their
chances of getting visitation rights are practically nil.

A spokeswoman with the State Department said the government primarily cares if
your ``visit'' might become permanent.

``You must overcome a presumption of immigration,'' said Angela Aggeler,
spokeswoman for the Bureau of Consular affairs. ``It's incumbent on the
applicant to prove their intent is not to immigrate.''

Last year, there were 946,142 new immigrants to the United States; a quarter of
them were family-sponsored and 155,330 -- like Syed -- earned the privilege to
stay permanently through employment.

If Syed were in the United States as a foreign student or a temporary worker
with an H-1B visa, and he married overseas, his wife and children could almost
immediately join him with a visitor's visa since neither spouse would have
permanent privilege to stay in the United States.

But since Syed became a permanent resident first and then married a year later,
his wife and child wait 7,600 miles away and he dwells in Sunnyvale until her
visa number is called.

``It's important for people to take immigration laws into consideration as they
plan life events,'' said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman for the immigration
agency.

``The whole situation is very strange

to me. If I marry someone before my

green card is approved, she will

automatically get a green card too.

On the other hand, if I marry someone

after I get my green card, we will be

unable to live together for

five or six years.''

--Alex Maslov, 30, Sunnyvale

The Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) is split on the issue.
While it supports placing a priority on uniting nuclear families, it also wants
to restrict immigration to 300,000 people a year.

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for FAIR, reflected this ambivalence when he said, ``No
one is stopping them from going back to their country to reunite with their
spouse.''

Under the Clinton administration, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
implemented a V visa program to allow certain spouses and minor children of
permanent residents to reside and work in the United States while waiting for
their own green cards. That program, created specifically to clear a heavy INS
backlog, has expired. The proposed bill would revive the V visa.

Alex Maslov came to the United States in 1995 as a graduate student studying
physics. Ten years later, he's a researcher in nanotechnology for a company in
Mountain View.

Now that he is a permanent resident, Maslov said his hope to marry someone back
home in Russia is dim.

``If I marry someone who doesn't have residence in the U.S., I will not be able
to live with her in the U.S.,'' said Maslov, 30. ``Five years' wait is just too
long.''

It's also too long for Guarav Negi, a software engineer at Cisco in Milpitas.
Before he received his green card in July 2004, Negi had heard about the
marriage pitfalls for green card holders. At the time, he had no marriage plans.

Then on a visit home to India in October 2004, his parents introduced him to
24-year-old Rohina Rawat.

``She's not a technical girl,'' said Negi, 29, ``but the thing is I want to
marry her.''

He has seen his fiancee three times, and their wedding is planned for December.

``In the U.S., marriage doesn't last five years and now we have to wait five
years to start our married life,'' Negi said.

Negi is looking for an employer in Canada willing to sponsor him with a work
visa.

Asked which country his fiancee would prefer, Negi replied: ``She doesn't care,
she just wants to live with me.''

Contact Truong Phuoc Khánh at tkhanh@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-2729.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              296 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday

Guatemala: too risky to return;
WORKERS SEEK TO STAY IN U.S. AFTER STORM

BYLINE: Nathaniel Hoffman, Knight Ridder

SECTION: B; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 792 words


Katarino Abraham Juarez knows that his nephew, Aquilino, survived Hurricane
Stan, but lost his crops and his home to the floods.

When the hurricane hit the Mayan highlands of Guatemala on Oct. 4, Juarez was
thousands of miles away in Oakland, where he is a day laborer among thousands of
other Guatemalan migrants.

Their government has asked the Bush administration to allow Guatemalans in the
United States to stay as their country continues to dig out from the mudslides
and floods that destroyed dozens of rural towns and roads.

Protective status

The Guatemalans are seeking temporary protective status, or TPS, an
administrative measure that grants temporary work permits to certain foreign
nationals, including undocumented immigrants, when the United States deems it
too dangerous for them to return home.

``They should give my paisanos, my countrymen, the opportunity to be legal and
find work with companies,'' Juarez said in Spanish, pointing to more than 20
young Guatemalan immigrants who wait for work every morning just off of
International Boulevard in Oakland.

Juarez, a Mayan, native Quiche speaker and green-card holder, is among about
25,000 Guatemalans in the Bay Area, according to 2004 Census Bureau data.

The Central American Resource Center in Los Angeles estimates that as many as
100,000 to 150,000 Guatemalans may be working in the United States illegally,
after a wave of immigration from the Central American country during the past
year.

Congress approved the TPS program in 1990 to shelter immigrants whose homelands
are racked by war or natural disasters. It has been applied to people from
Sudan, Somalia, Burundi, Liberia and Sierra Leone in recent years.

Hondurans and Nicaraguans affected by Hurricane Mitch in 1998 and Salvadorans
hit by a large earthquake in 2001 all were granted the special status and given
a series of extensions that ranged from six to 18 months and that continue
today.

``We're very optimistic that the Bush administration is going to hear the cries
of the Central American community,'' said Marvin Andrade, director of programs
for the Central American Resource Center. ``We believe it is the most effective
way to provide aid to the region.''

Andrade said that if Guatemalans get protective status they will be able to
continue to work and send money home to their families rebuilding their villages
and economy.

Central American immigrants in the United States sent more than $6 billion home
last year, Andrade said.

Extensions common

Groups that seek more limits on U.S. immigration oppose the frequent TPS
extensions and say those people could better serve their countries by returning
home.

``It's great to provide temporary shelter for people who are in desperate need
but we don't have limitless ability to take people who end up staying here,''
said Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for Numbers USA.

Jenks and others who seek to scale back immigration say that TPS is not a bad
idea, but that it has never really been temporary -- the majority of those
granted TPS have gotten multiple extensions, allowing them to stay indefinitely.

``For a lot of these TPS countries there is perpetual instability and
disaster,'' said Will Adams, spokesman for Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo., an
outspoken critic of immigration policies.

Since 1990, immigrants from at least a dozen countries have been granted TPS.
Some of the programs have expired. One TPS program that ended earlier this year
affected about 300 nationals of Monteserrat, a Caribbean island with a volcano
that the Department of Homeland Security determined would perpetually pose a
risk to its citizens.

But Salvadorans and other Central Americans have been granted multiple
extensions. Liberians in the United States recently won another year of TPS,
first granted in 1991 and then terminated and re-approved several times.

Guatemalans are aware that their petition could be a long shot as Congress once
again enters the debate over immigration.

``It's very difficult to get to the White House and Homeland Security these
days,'' Andrade said.

Multiple disasters

The government is also considering a petition from Pakistan after the Oct. 8
earthquake that killed up to 80,000 people.

Estimates of hurricane deaths in Guatemala are approaching 1,000 with more than
100,000 living in shelters and camps.

Edgar Ayala, an Oakland graphic designer and member of the national steering
board of the National Alliance of Latin American and Caribbean Communities, said
Guatemalans here will contribute more if TPS allows them to come out of their
shadow existence as undocumented workers to support their families and their
nation.

``They will be able to have steady work as opposed to daily labor at the corner
and they will not be deported,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              297 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           November 29, 2005 Tuesday

Papers offer insight on court nominee;
ALITO ARGUED IMMIGRANTS HAVE LIMITED RIGHTS

BYLINE: Jo Becker and Amy Goldstein, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 724 words


As a senior lawyer in the Reagan Justice Department, Samuel Alito Jr. argued
that immigrants who enter the United States illegally and foreigners living
outside their countries are not entitled to the constitutional rights afforded
to Americans.

In an opinion that offers insight into the Supreme Court nominee's view of an
area of law that has gained new significance with the Bush administration's
policies to combat terrorism, Alito gave his approval to an FBI effort in the
1980s to collect from Canadian authorities fingerprint cards of Iranian and
Afghan refugees living in that country.

The program to collect background information was constitutional, Alito wrote in
a January 1986 memo to the FBI director. Because the refugees were non-resident
immigrants of a third country, he reasoned, the FBI could disregard court
decisions that prohibited it from spreading ``stigmatizing'' information about
citizens.

With the Supreme Court scheduled to hear a major case next term involving the
Bush administration's policy of trying ``enemy combatants'' in military
tribunals, Alito's views of the FBI's old anti-terrorism fingerprint program
have resonance today, reflecting what legal experts said is a broad and
aggressive view of the law.

The memo on the rights of immigrants was among 120 documents from Alito's
16-month tenure as a deputy assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal
Counsel that the Justice Department released Monday in response to a Freedom of
Information request by the Washington Post and other news organizations. The
agency withheld 70 other documents, asserting that they were exempt from
disclosure on grounds of privacy, attorney-client privilege or rules relating to
classified information. Names and other details were blacked-out on some
documents that were released.

Still, the memos, letters and other papers, most of them written by Alito,
provide the most vivid picture available to date of the future nominee's role
and views from December 1985 to March 1987, when he worked on legal matters as a
high-ranking political appointee during President Reagan's second term. He would
go on to become U.S. attorney for New Jersey and, later, an appeals court judge.

His writings show Alito in sync with the philosophy of the Republican
administration of which he was a part, staking out strong stances on aggressive
law enforcement and on states' rights. The views he expresses also could be
construed as paralleling those of the Bush administration as it has pursued its
campaign against terrorists, legal experts said.

The current administration has contended, for instance, that Al-Qaida and
Taliban detainees held at the U.S. naval station in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, had no
right to have their case heard by a U.S. judge. That is in part because, like
the Afghan and Iranian refugees in Canada about whom Alito wrote, the recent
detainees were not on U.S. soil. That view was rejected last year by a divided
Supreme Court.

In his 1986 memo, Alito cites a 1950 Supreme Court case to support the
contention that non-resident immigrants of other countries have ``no due process
rights'' under the Constitution and a 1970 case that he said suggests illegal
immigrants in the United States have limited constitutional rights.

Conservative constitutional analyst Bruce Fein, who served in the Reagan
administration with Alito, said that by the time Alito wrote the memo the
Supreme Court had ruled that school-age illegal immigrants had a right to a
public education.

``He seems to be saying that there is no constitutional constraints placed on
U.S. officials in their treatment of non-resident aliens or illegal aliens.
Could you shoot them? Could you torture them?'' Fein asked. ``It's a very
aggressive reading of cases that addressed much narrower issues.''

On other law enforcement issues, Alito also took a pro-government approach. In a
January 1986 memo, Alito expressed several concerns about ethics guidelines for
prosecutors that had been proposed by the D.C. Bar Association, saying they
would impose ``unworkable burdens'' on attorneys responsible for bringing
criminals to justice.

In another memo a few months later, Alito cited a loophole he said would allow
IRS attorneys investigating taxpayers to get around an American Bar Association
rule that prohibited attorneys from secretly recording conversations.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              298 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday

Latin America in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 234 words

HONDURAS

Vote tally drags on in presidential race

Despite a declaration of a winner, the race between Honduras' two presidential
candidates remained close Tuesday with electoral officials slowly tallying the
ballots. Rival parties traded accusations of misconduct.

With about 28 percent of the votes cast in Sunday's election counted, Porfirio
Lobo Sosa, of the ruling National Party had received 47.9 percent compared with
46.9 for Manuel Zelaya, according to the Supreme Electoral Tribunal.

Aristides Mejia, the tribunal's president, declared Monday that the 52-year-old
Zelaya, of the Liberal Party, had won the election.

MEXICO

Fox hopeful he'll see immigration pact

President Vicente Fox expressed hope Tuesday that Mexico will secure an
immigration accord with the United States before he leaves office next year.

``There are initiatives in Congress that provide solutions to the problem of
migration, so we'll keep on having an optimistic, positive . . . attitude,''
said Fox, who met with foreign correspondents in Mexico City.

Fox's comments came despite a tough speech by President Bush on the issue Monday
in which he promised more border enforcement and no amnesty for undocumented
migrants.

Bush's speech stressed his support for a temporary guest-worker program, but
that plan envisions having most workers return home after up to six years
working in the United States.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              299 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday

Bill aims to assist foreign brides;
LEGISLATOR: RECRUITS SHOULD GET TRAINING ON HOW TO ESCAPE ABUSE

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words


The 24-year-old aerobics instructor from the Ukraine looked forward to
immigrating to the United States to marry a man from Sunnyvale she had met
through an international matchmaking agency.

Months later she was hospitalized, her skull fractured. Police suspected her new
husband. When they went to the couple's apartment one early winter morning in
2001 to question him, he drew a gun and was fatally shot by the officers.

It's impossible to know how many so-called mail-order brides are victims of
domestic violence, but Assemblywoman Sally Lieber, D-San Jose, is concerned with
what she describes as an alarming problem and wants to regulate the industry in
California.

Her bill, which also would require coaching brides on how to get help if they
become victims of abuse, is scheduled for a hearing Wednesday before the Joint
Committee on Boards, Commissions and Consumer Protection at the State Capitol.

``There have been a number of instances where women come expecting one type of a
situation, looking forward to marriage, and greater future possibilities,''
Lieber said, ``and end up being subject to domestic violence, rape and other
physical abuses.''

Her bill, AB 634, would force international marriage brokers based in California
to be licensed by the Department of Consumer Affairs and their owners to undergo
criminal background checks. The proposed law would also order matchmaking
agencies to teach brides (referred to as ``foreign recruits'' in the bill) how
to call police, find domestic violence shelters and file restraining orders.

A similar federal bill is working its way through Congress.

``We think it's absolutely critical that there be greater protections for women
coming to the United States and marrying men through international marriage
brokers,'' said Layli Miller-Muro, executive director of the Tahirih Justice
Center, a non-profit group in Virginia that promotes regulation of the
matchmaking industry.

``The harsh reality,'' Miller-Muro said, ``is that many foreign women are
marrying predatory abusers who use the international marriage brokers as a way
to find their next victim.''

A 1999 study by the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, the most
recent federal research on the topic, found that between 4,000 and 6,000 women
were coming to the United States through brokers -- a number that, boosted by a
staggering number of online matchmaking sites, could be as high as 14,000 today,
according to estimates by Tahirih.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office handles about a dozen
mail-order bride cases a year, though often the victims refuse to cooperate with
authorities, said Rolanda Pierre Dixon, a domestic violence prosecutor.

Mail-order brides are often from Russia and the Philippines.

The couples exchange pictures, e-mails and letters, speak regularly by
telephone, and spend a few days together overseas before she lands in the United
States with a fiancee visa. The women are usually young, attractive and
ambitious, and speak little or no English. The men are usually middle-aged, have
struck out finding a mate and want someone who tends to be submissive, according
to domestic violence experts.

``These women are leaving these countries for a specific reason, and most of the
time that reason is to improve their lot in life, which means moving up,''
Pierre Dixon said. ``They're thinking education, the land of the free, home of
the brave, thinking of making money for their family they've left behind.''

So when the couple comes together at cross purposes, Pierre Dixon said,
``chances are it's going to be a disaster.''

Pierre Dixon said, while she appreciates the attention Lieber is giving the
issues, her bill doesn't go far enough. ``I think the better start is to make
these guys take a sociological test.''

About 70 international marriage brokers are based in California, mostly drawing
business from the Web with names such as Beautiful Dream, Worldmates and Russian
Women Catalog, according to a list provided by Lieber. Many more sites operate
throughout the United States; some are known to charge as much as $7,000 for
their services.

An attempt by the Mercury News to reach international matchmakers was fruitless;
few publish telephone numbers and others did not return e-mails seeking comment.

While there exists the potential for abuse, many mail-order marriages thrive
happily.

Olga Mintz, a San Jose real estate broker, married her husband 11 years ago
after meeting him in Russia. She believes so strongly in the merits of
matchmaking, she later started her own agency.

But she also knows foreign brides who have been abused and thinks Lieber's
legislation is a good idea.

``When they come here,'' Mintz said, ``a lot of times the man is not what he
said he was.''

San Francisco matchmaker Marsha Winter, who specializes in hooking up couples in
the Bay Area, is ``absolutely'' in favor of laws that would protect foreign
brides.

Then again, she thinks the whole idea of overseas matchmaking is ridiculous.

``We have so many people trying to find each other here,'' Winter said. ``Tell
these guys we have tons of good women.''

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia @mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              300 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 4, 2005 Sunday

Bill aims to help foreign brides;
S.J. LAWMAKER SEEKS TO PREVENT ABUSE IN `MAIL-ORDER' MATCHES

BYLINE: Edwin Garcia, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words


The 24-year-old aerobics instructor from the Ukraine looked forward to
immigrating to the United States to marry a man from Sunnyvale she had met
through an international matchmaking agency.

Months later she was hospitalized, her skull fractured. Police suspected her new
husband. When they went to the couple's apartment one early winter morning in
2001 to question him, he drew a gun and was fatally shot by the officers.

It's impossible to know how many so-called mail-order brides are victims of
domestic violence, but Assemblywoman Sally Lieber, D-San Jose, is concerned with
what she describes as an alarming problem and wants to regulate the industry in
California.

Her bill, which also would require coaching brides on how to get help if they
become victims of abuse, is scheduled for a hearing Wednesday before the Joint
Committee on Boards, Commissions and Consumer Protection at the State Capitol.

``There have been a number of instances where women come expecting one type of a
situation, looking forward to marriage, and greater future possibilities,''
Lieber said, ``and end up being subject to domestic violence, rape and other
physical abuses.''

Her bill, AB 634, would force international marriage brokers based in California
to be licensed by the Department of Consumer Affairs and their owners undergo
criminal background checks. The proposed law would also order matchmaking
agencies to teach brides (referred to as ``foreign recruits'' in the bill) how
to call police, find domestic violence shelters and file restraining orders.

A similar federal bill is working its way through Congress.

``We think it's absolutely critical that there be greater protections for women
coming to the United States and marrying men through international marriage
brokers,'' said Layli Miller-Muro, executive director of the Tahirih Justice
Center, a non-profit group in Virginia that promotes regulation of the
matchmaking industry.

``The harsh reality,'' Miller-Muro said, ``is that many foreign women are
marrying predatory abusers who use the international marriage brokers as a way
to find their next victim.''

A 1999 study by the former Immigration and Naturalization Service, the most
recent federal research on the topic, found that between 4,000 and 6,000 women
were coming to the United States through brokers -- a number that, boosted by a
staggering number of online matchmaking sites, could be as high as 14,000 today,
according to estimates by Tahirih.

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office handles about a dozen
mail-order bride cases a year, though often the victims refuse to cooperate with
authorities, said Rolanda Pierre Dixon, a domestic violence prosecutor.

Mail-order brides are often from Russia and the Philippines.

The couples exchange pictures, e-mails and letters, speak regularly by telephone
and spend a few days together overseas before she lands in the United States
with a fiancee visa. The women are usually young, attractive and ambitious, and
speak little or no English. The men are usually middle-age, have struck out
finding a mate and want someone who tends to be submissive, according to
domestic violence experts.

``These women are leaving these countries for a specific reason, and most of the
time that reason is to improve their lot in life, which means moving up,''
Pierre Dixon said. ``They're thinking education, the land of the free, home of
the brave, thinking of making money for their family they've left behind.''

So when the couple comes together at cross purposes, Pierre Dixon said,
``chances are it's going to be a disaster.''

Pierre Dixon said, while she appreciates the attention Lieber is giving the
issues, her bill doesn't go far enough. ``I think the better start is to make
these guys take a sociological test.''

About 70 international marriage brokers are based in California, mostly drawing
business from the Web with names such as Beautiful Dream, Worldmates and Russian
Women Catalog, according to a list provided by Lieber. Many more sites operate
throughout the United States; some are known to charge as much as $7,000 for
their services.

An attempt by the Mercury News to reach international matchmakers was fruitless;
few publish telephone numbers and others did not return e-mails seeking comment.

While there exists the potential for abuse, many mail-order marriages thrive
happily.

Olga Mintz, a San Jose real estate broker, married her husband 11 years ago
after meeting him in Russia. She believes so strongly in the merits of
matchmaking, she later started her own agency.

But she also knows foreign brides who have been abused and thinks Lieber's
legislation is a good idea.

``When they come here,'' Mintz said, ``a lot of times the man is not what he
said he was.''

San Francisco matchmaker Marsha Winter, who specializes in hooking up couples in
the Bay Area, is ``absolutely'' in favor of laws that would protect foreign
brides.

Then again, she thinks the whole idea of overseas matchmaking is ridiculous.

``We have so many people trying to find each other here,'' Winter said. ``Tell
these guys we have tons of good women.''

Contact Edwin Garcia at egarcia@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4651.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              301 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday

Italian anti-terror law forces cybercafe owners to take names

LENGTH: 956 words

DATELINE: ROME


In a heavily immigrant neighborhood near the main railway station, Ahmed Sohel
points dejectedly to the empty computer terminals at the modest storefront where
he sells Internet and telephone service.

``Before, I was full of Internet clients, now I have no one left,'' said Sohel,
a gentle, middle-aged immigrant from Bangladesh.

A new Italian law requires businesses that offer Internet access to the public,
like Sohel's, to ask clients for identification and log the owner's name and the
document type.

Cybercafes also must make and keep a photocopy of the ID and be registered with
their local police station, dictates the law, part of an anti-terror package
approved after the July terrorist bombings in London.

Many cybercafe owners say the law has increased their work load and decreased
their profits.

``We're selling the store, and in part this is the reason,'' said Dolores
Cabrera, who owns Kokonet, an Internet storefront across town near the Vatican.
About half Cabrera's prospective clients either don't have their passport with
them or aren't willing to show it, she said.

Enforcement is spotty at many cafes, however, and besides cybercafe owners and
civil libertarians, the law appears to bother only people who fear scrutiny by
the authorities, such as illegal immigrants.

Angela De Angelis, a 21-year-old Italian student using a cybercafe near the
Vatican, was dubious about the new law's worth.

``I think it's all right if it serves to protect us, though sincerely, I can't
see how it's useful,'' she said.

Italy is the only European Union country to require Internet cafes to record ID
information on clients, said Richard Nash, secretary general of EuroISPA, which
represents Internet providers in Europe.

Non-member Switzerland, however, does requires people who go online at
cybercafes to show IDs, according to Robin Gross, of the U.S. civil liberties
group IP Justice.

Several Asian countries and cities, most prominently China and including the
Indian technology hub of Bangalore, require registration at cybercafes.

But the leaders of some of those nations tend to be thinking at least as much
about inhibiting speech as preventing terror attacks in making the requirement.
In Vietnam, Internet cafes also are required to block access to Web sites deemed
subversive and pornographic.

The Internet's potential as a terrorist tool was highlighted by the 2002
kidnapping and murder in Pakistan of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl,
whose abductors used e-mail to issue demands and send photos. However, those
messages were traced to a computer in a private residence, not an Internet cafe.
Pakistan does not require cybercafe users to register.

Daniele Capezzone, a leader of Italy's Radical Party that often campaigns on
human and civil rights issues, opposes the new law and explains why he thinks it
has stirred little debate.

``Two reasons: one, the political class isn't talking about it, and two, the
media hasn't shined a light on it,'' he said.

Cybercafe owners who rely in large part on a clientele that may not be in the
country legally are often opting to turn a blind eye.

``Fifty percent of the people who come for Internet don't want to show their
document,'' Sohel said, opening his registry book and pointing to where a few
clients among those who used the computers left their names but not their
passport numbers. As for successfully photocopying IDs, he said customer
compliance is rare.

Giuseppe Italia, whose office at Rome's central police station oversees the
application of the new law in the province of Rome, acknowledges that cybercafes
that cater to immigrants might not be complying consistently.

Sabino Acquaviva, a sociologist at the University of Padua who specializes in
terrorism, says compliance is indeed haphazard.

``People either won't register their documents, and others will show fake
ones,'' he said. ``I think this law is useless.''

An added problem is that police cannot sanction violators -- license suspension
or revocation are among the stipulated penalties -- unless they have approved a
cybercafe owner's license, Italia said.

As of mid-November, only about 130 cybercafe operators in the province of Rome
had been approved and one rejected by police with more than 950 still pending.

Italia did not return a call seeking updated information this week, but the
Internet magazine Punto Informatico reported on its Web site that seven Internet
parlors in Florence were temporarily closed last month for not complying with
the law and at least one was shuttered indefinitely for not recording clients'
names and failing to register with police.

Some cybercafe owners bemoan another requirement of the new law: They must be
able, if necessary, to track the sites visited by their clients. And some
bellyache about the added expense. Contents of people's e-mail is, however,
supposed to remain private and can only be made available to law enforcement
through a court order.

Italy also obliges telecommunications companies to keep traffic data and
European ministers agreed last week to require the carriers to retain records of
calls and e-mails for a maximum of two years. The European Parliament's two
largest groups endorsed the data retention initiative on Wednesday despite
complaints from privacy advocates and telecoms, and the full body is expected to
adopt a bill next week.

Back at the cybercafes, there isn't much confidence among workers that such
measures could help prevent a terror attack.

``These people caused the Twin Towers to collapse,'' said Edoardo Righi, a
computer tech at a store near the tourist-rich neighborhood of Campo dei Fiori.
``They're not going to stop because they can't send an e-mail.''

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              302 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 12, 2005 Monday

Italian law hits cybercafes

BYLINE: Maria Sanminiatelli, Associated Press

LENGTH: 702 words


In a heavily immigrant neighborhood near the main railway station, Ahmed Sohel
points dejectedly to the empty computer terminals at the modest storefront where
he sells Internet and telephone service.

``Before, I was full of Internet clients, now I have no one left,'' said Sohel,
a gentle, middle-aged man from Bangladesh.

A new Italian law requires businesses, like Sohel's, that offer Internet access
to the public to ask clients for identification and then log the owner's name
and the documents they look at.

Cybercafes must be registered with their local police station, and keep a
photocopy of a person's ID, dictates the law, part of an anti-terror package
approved after the July terrorist bombings in London.

Many cybercafe owners say the law has increased their workload and decreased
their profits.

``We're selling the store, and in part this is the reason,'' said Dolores
Cabrera, who owns Kokonet, an Internet storefront across town near the Vatican.
About half Cabrera's prospective clients either don't have their passport with
them or aren't willing to show it, she said.

Enforcement is spotty at many cafes, however, and besides cybercafe owners and
civil libertarians, the law appears to bother only people who fear scrutiny by
the authorities, such as illegal immigrants.

Angela De Angelis, a 21-year-old Italian student using a cybercafe near the
Vatican, was dubious about the new law's worth.

``I think it's all right if it serves to protect us, though sincerely, I can't
see how it's useful,'' she said.

Italy is the only European Union country to require Internet cafes to record ID
information on clients, said Richard Nash, secretary general of EuroISPA, which
represents Internet providers in Europe.

Non-member Switzerland, however, does requires people who go online at
cybercafes to show IDs, according to Robin Gross, of the U.S. civil liberties
group IP Justice.

Several Asian countries and cities, most prominently China and the Indian
technology hub of Bangalore, require registration at cybercafes.

But the leaders of some of those nations tend to be thinking at least as much
about inhibiting speech as preventing terror attacks in making the requirement.
In Vietnam, Internet cafes also are required to block access to Web sites deemed
subversive or pornographic.

Daniele Capezzone, a leader of Italy's Radical Party that often campaigns on
human and civil rights issues, opposes the new law and explains why he thinks it
has stirred little debate.

``Two reasons: one, the political class isn't talking about it, and two, the
media hasn't shined a light on it,'' he said.

Cybercafe owners who rely in large part on a clientele that may not be in the
country legally are often opting to turn a blind eye.

``Fifty percent of the people who come for Internet don't want to show their
document,'' Sohel said, opening his registry book and pointing to where a few
clients among those who used the computers left their names but not their
passport numbers. As for successfully photocopying IDs, he said customer
compliance is rare.

Giuseppe Italia, whose office at Rome's central police station oversees the
application of the new law in the province of Rome, acknowledges that cybercafes
that cater to immigrants might not be complying consistently.

Sabino Acquaviva, a sociologist at the University of Padua who specializes in
terrorism, says compliance is indeed haphazard.

``People either won't register their documents, and others will show fake
ones,'' he said. ``I think this law is useless.''

An added problem is that police cannot sanction violators -- license suspension
or revocation are among the stipulated penalties -- unless they have approved a
cybercafe owner's license, Italia said.

As of mid-November, only about 130 cybercafe operators in the province of Rome
had been approved and one rejected with more than 950 still pending.

Italia did not return a call seeking updated information this week, but the
Internet magazine Punto Informatico reported on its Web site that seven Internet
parlors in Florence were temporarily closed last month for not complying with
the law and at least one was shuttered indefinitely for not recording clients'
names and failing to register with police.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              303 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 12, 2005 Monday

Italian law hits cybercafes

BYLINE: Maria Sanminiatelli, Associated Press

SECTION: PT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 702 words


In a heavily immigrant neighborhood near the main railway station, Ahmed Sohel
points dejectedly to the empty computer terminals at the modest storefront where
he sells Internet and telephone service.

``Before, I was full of Internet clients, now I have no one left,'' said Sohel,
a gentle, middle-aged man from Bangladesh.

A new Italian law requires businesses, like Sohel's, that offer Internet access
to the public to ask clients for identification and then log the owner's name
and the documents they look at.

Cybercafes must be registered with their local police station, and keep a
photocopy of a person's ID, dictates the law, part of an anti-terror package
approved after the July terrorist bombings in London.

Many cybercafe owners say the law has increased their workload and decreased
their profits.

``We're selling the store, and in part this is the reason,'' said Dolores
Cabrera, who owns Kokonet, an Internet storefront across town near the Vatican.
About half Cabrera's prospective clients either don't have their passport with
them or aren't willing to show it, she said.

Enforcement is spotty at many cafes, however, and besides cybercafe owners and
civil libertarians, the law appears to bother only people who fear scrutiny by
the authorities, such as illegal immigrants.

Angela De Angelis, a 21-year-old Italian student using a cybercafe near the
Vatican, was dubious about the new law's worth.

``I think it's all right if it serves to protect us, though sincerely, I can't
see how it's useful,'' she said.

Italy is the only European Union country to require Internet cafes to record ID
information on clients, said Richard Nash, secretary general of EuroISPA, which
represents Internet providers in Europe.

Non-member Switzerland, however, does requires people who go online at
cybercafes to show IDs, according to Robin Gross, of the U.S. civil liberties
group IP Justice.

Several Asian countries and cities, most prominently China and the Indian
technology hub of Bangalore, require registration at cybercafes.

But the leaders of some of those nations tend to be thinking at least as much
about inhibiting speech as preventing terror attacks in making the requirement.
In Vietnam, Internet cafes also are required to block access to Web sites deemed
subversive or pornographic.

Daniele Capezzone, a leader of Italy's Radical Party that often campaigns on
human and civil rights issues, opposes the new law and explains why he thinks it
has stirred little debate.

``Two reasons: one, the political class isn't talking about it, and two, the
media hasn't shined a light on it,'' he said.

Cybercafe owners who rely in large part on a clientele that may not be in the
country legally are often opting to turn a blind eye.

``Fifty percent of the people who come for Internet don't want to show their
document,'' Sohel said, opening his registry book and pointing to where a few
clients among those who used the computers left their names but not their
passport numbers. As for successfully photocopying IDs, he said customer
compliance is rare.

Giuseppe Italia, whose office at Rome's central police station oversees the
application of the new law in the province of Rome, acknowledges that cybercafes
that cater to immigrants might not be complying consistently.

Sabino Acquaviva, a sociologist at the University of Padua who specializes in
terrorism, says compliance is indeed haphazard.

``People either won't register their documents, and others will show fake
ones,'' he said. ``I think this law is useless.''

An added problem is that police cannot sanction violators -- license suspension
or revocation are among the stipulated penalties -- unless they have approved a
cybercafe owner's license, Italia said.

As of mid-November, only about 130 cybercafe operators in the province of Rome
had been approved and one rejected with more than 950 still pending.

Italia did not return a call seeking updated information this week, but the
Internet magazine Punto Informatico reported on its Web site that seven Internet
parlors in Florence were temporarily closed last month for not complying with
the law and at least one was shuttered indefinitely for not recording clients'
names and failing to register with police.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              304 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Mexico angrily vows to block proposed U.S. border wall

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 523 words


The Mexican government, angered by a U.S. proposal to extend a wall along the
border to keep out migrants, pledged Tuesday to block the plan and organize an
international campaign against it.

Facing a growing tide of anti-immigrant sentiment north of the border, the
Mexican government has taken out ads urging Mexican workers to denounce rights
violations in the United States. It also is hiring an American public-relations
firm to improve its image and counter growing U.S. concerns about immigration.

Mexican President Vicente Fox denounced the U.S. measures, passed by the House
of Representatives on Friday, as ``shameful'' and his foreign minister, Luis
Ernesto Derbez, echoed his complaints on Tuesday.

``Mexico is not going to bear, it is not going to permit, and it will not allow
a stupid thing like this wall,'' Derbez said.

``What has to be done is to raise a storm of criticism, as is already happening,
against this,'' he said, promising to turn other countries against the plan.

Some stretches of the U.S.-Mexico border are already marked by fences, but in
some heavily trafficked sections walls have already been erected by the United
States, often using 10-foot-high sections of military surplus steel. Those
sections, which typically run several miles, can be found in southern Arizona
and California.

It's hard to underestimate the ill-feeling the proposal has generated in Mexico,
where editorial pages are dominated by cartoons of Uncle Sam putting up walls
bearing anti-Mexican messages.

Many Mexicans, especially those who have spent time working in the United
States, feel the proposal is a slap in the face to those who work hard and
contribute to the U.S. economy.

Fernando Robledo, 42, of the western state of Zacatecas, says the proposals
could stem migration and disrupt families by breaking cross-border ties.

``When people heard this, it worried everybody, because this will affect
everybody in some way, and their families,'' Robledo said. ``They were
incredulous. How could they do this, propose something like this?''

Robledo, whose son and mother are U.S. citizens, predicted the measure ``would
unleash conflict within the United States'' as small businesses fail for lack of
workers.

He said many Mexicans felt betrayed by the anti-immigrant sentiment.

``We learned to believe in the United States. We have a binational life,'' he
said of Zacatecas, a state that has been sending migrants north for more than a
century. ``It isn't just a feeling of rejection. It's against what we see as
part of our life, our culture, our territory.''

Monday, the Mexican government announced it had hired Allyn & Company, a
Dallas-based public-relations company to help improve Mexico's image and stem
the immigration backlash.

``If people in the U.S. and Canada had an accurate view of the success of
democracy, political stability and economic prosperity in Mexico, it would
improve their views on specific bilateral issues like immigration and border
security,'' Rob Allyn, president of the PR firm, told the Associated Press on
Tuesday.

Mexico is also encouraging U.S. church, community and business groups to oppose
the proposal.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              305 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday

Bush strives to bounce back in '06

BYLINE: Deb Riechmann, Associated Press

LENGTH: 794 words


President Bush, bruised by months of setbacks, enters the new year hoping to win
congressional battles over tax cuts and immigration, get rebellious Republicans
back in step and nurture a new democracy in Iraq -- the make-or-break issue of
his legacy.

Expect the president to bring in 2006 the same way he ended the old: trumpeting
good economic news and talking, reassuringly, about Iraq where excitement over a
historic ballot has been tempered by growing disenchantment with the war and a
death toll of U.S. troops that tops 2,160.

The war in Iraq and sluggish diplomatic efforts to deter the nuclear ambitions
of Iran and North Korea will continue to dominate foreign policy for the
president, who plans a trip early in the new year to India.

At home, Bush will be after the Senate to confirm Samuel Alito to the Supreme
Court in January. He also wants immigration reform, including a guest-worker
program.

Absent from his to-do list is a plan to overhaul the tax code. White House
advisers say there may be some efforts to simplify it, but a sweeping
restructuring would need more discussion. Also off the list is revamping Social
Security, the onetime centerpiece of Bush's domestic agenda that failed to gain
traction even though he crisscrossed the country to win support for it.

White House advisers were candid that next fall's congressional elections will
cramp Bush's legislative efforts.

``When the president puts out a legislative and executive agenda, we'll make
sure we reflect the fact that it's difficult for Congress to get anything done
in an election year,'' said Dan Bartlett, counselor to the president.

Bartlett said that does not mean the president will not introduce fresh
initiatives, which typically are tucked in the State of the Union address,
tentatively scheduled for Jan. 31, 2006. But midterm elections often mark the
last lap of a president's domestic agenda as lawmakers turn their attention to
re-election campaigns, and presidents in their sixth year move toward the end of
their Oval Office stay. Already, 2008 presidential hopefuls are positioning
themselves on Iraq.

``I think he's going to fall back on what he didn't want to do, what he swore he
wouldn't do, but almost all second-term presidents do, which is being in a kind
of caretaker status,'' said Norm Ornstein, a resident scholar with the American
Enterprise Institute.

Right after he was re-elected with just a 3.5 million-vote margin in the popular
vote, Bush proudly claimed a mandate to pursue an aggressive agenda. ``I earned
capital in the campaign -- political capital -- and now I intend to spend it. It
is my style,'' he said.

Among successes the White House claims in 2005: a bankruptcy law that made it
harder for Americans to wipe out their debts, legislation to discourage
multimillion-dollar class-action lawsuits and confirmation of John Roberts as
chief justice of the United States.

Bush also won a free-trade pact with six Latin American countries. There was a
highway bill, at last, to modernize the transportation network. He also got
major energy legislation -- the first such national plan in more than a decade
-- although the act does little in the near-term to ease gas prices, which
topped $3 a gallon after Hurricane Katrina.

The list of setbacks is longer.

Bartlett said Bush's biggest disappointments of the year were the withdrawal of
Harriet Miers, his second pick for the Supreme Court, and the ineffective
federal response to Hurricane Katrina, which tainted his leadership profile and
exposed the nation's vulnerability in disaster scenarios.

``The accusations of racism and things like that is something that touched a
chord with him,'' Bartlett said. ``It wasn't one of the finest moments for our
government.''

Meanwhile, the Iraq debate took on new potency at home.

Despite expected troop reductions in the next few months, the war will continue
to cost the United States billions. Congressional defense appropriators expect
the next war package that Bush requests will be $80 billion to $100 billion.
That is on top of $50 billion Congress just approved to support actions in
Afghanistan and Iraq through Memorial Day.

As the year ended, the administration lost its bid to open oil drilling in an
Alaska wildlife refuge. Congress extended the Patriot Act for just a month. The
European Union was vowing to probe allegations the United States has been
holding suspected terrorists in secret CIA prisons in Eastern Europe. The White
House was forced to accept Sen. John McCain's demand for tighter restrictions on
the treatment of foreign detainees.

``It's been the least successful year of his presidency,'' said Georgetown
University political scientist Stephen Wayne, suggesting that to turn things
around, Bush should reach out to Democrats.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              306 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 30, 2005 Friday

Latin America news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 297 words

MEXICO

Planned overhaul of immigrant policy

Mexico has drawn up a new, more ``humanistic, democratic and realistic'' plan
for handling migrants -- mainly Central Americans -- on its southern border,
including legal changes, the Interior Department said Thursday.

The announcement comes a week after human rights officials criticized Mexico's
treatment of migrants and noted that Mexico uses some of the same methods to
combat undocumented migration that it criticizes in the United States.

The plan calls for ``bringing immigration laws up to date,'' but department
officials were not immediately available to comment on whether that meant
possible changes in current law, which considers illegal entry a crime
punishable by up to two years in prison.

Mexico has hotly criticized a U.S. House of Representatives bill that would make
illegal immigration a felony and extend border walls.

Mexico's southern border with Guatemala and Belize is often crossed by Central
Americans seeking to reach the United States.

U.S. company working to free ship

A private U.S. company was working Thursday to rescue a container ship that has
been hung up on a beach off Mexico's northern Pacific coast since Christmas Day,
a Mexican port captain confirmed.

The Antigua & Barbuda-registered ship, bearing the name APL Panama and
originating in Oakland, was preparing to enter the Mexican port of Ensenada on
Sunday when it became stuck, port Capt. José Luis Rios Hernández said.

Mexican officials hired a U.S company specializing in marine salvage operations
to rescue the 850-foot ship, but so far the company has had no luck, Hernández
said.

Officials had not determined the cause of the mishap, he said. He believed it
might take as much as a month to free the hull and propellers.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              307 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             January 9, 2006 Monday

Leftist takes on moderation;
LÓPEZ OBRADOR VOWS BROAD GOVERNMENT AND NEW ECONOMY

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 452 words


Leftist Andrés Manuel López Obrador strove to portray himself as a moderate
while formally registering his presidential candidacy Sunday, promising to
reduce immigration to the United States and maintain a balanced foreign policy.

Portrayed as a radical or populist by detractors, the former Mexico City mayor
has worked to move toward the political center after his once-commanding lead in
public opinion polls ahead of the July 2 election shrank since late fall.

Calling for ``a broad, representative and inclusive citizen's movement,'' López
Obrador promised Mexicans ``a new economy'' but said it would not be based on
ideology.

``Changing the current economic system is indispensable,'' he told a cheering
crowd of supporters at the Federal Electoral Commission's headquarters in
southern Mexico City, ``not for ideological reasons, but for the common good.''

López Obrador said that as president he will work to stem the tide of millions
of Mexicans who cross into the United States legally and otherwise in search of
higher-paying jobs.

``It's painful to see thousands of Mexicans risking their lives trying to cross
the border,'' he said, adding that no one should ``have to abandon the country
and their family in order to find work.''

He called a U.S. proposal for extending border walls ``a disgrace,'' but also
said that as president he would maintain ``a moderate foreign policy.''

López Obrador left Mexico City's mayorship this summer and was unopposed for the
nomination of his leftist Democratic Revolution Party. Two smaller parties also
are supporting his candidacy.

Rivals Felipe Calderón of President Vicente Fox's conservative National Action
Party and Roberto Madrazo of the Institutional Revolutionary Party -- which
ruled Mexico from 1929 to 2000 -- both won primary races to gain their
nominations.

Calderón got a significant boost in polls after his primary, pulling almost even
with López Obrador and Madrazo.

Both rivals have launched stinging attacks against what they call López
Obrador's ``populism,'' referring to handout programs he inaugurated while
mayor.

``I know that our adversaries are betting on fomenting fear,'' López Obrador
said Sunday, ``and they have gone as far as vulgarities to paint us as a grave
risk for political stability.''

Seeking to counter those kinds of accusations, the former mayor said the army
would be given greater powers to fight drug trafficking and organized crime and
said, ``not even our adversaries should worry. Revenge is not my strong suit.''

López Obrador had worked to avoid being labeled part of the rising leftist tide
in Latin America, citing Chile -- a country with left-leaning government but
conservative economic polices -- as a potential model.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              308 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 16, 2006 Monday

Pakistani brothers get immigration reprieve

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 491 words


Brothers Ahmad and Hassan Amin, who were on the verge of deportation to Pakistan
after getting caught up in a 2003 national security registration program, have
been approved, at least for now, for legal status in the United States.

In articles in the fall of 2003, the Mercury News detailed the plight of the San
Jose brothers and their fight to stay in the United States.

Ahmad Amin, 18 at the time and a senior at Cupertino High School, and Hassan,
then a 19-year-old student at De Anza College, were ordered deported after the
government found during the special registration program that they had
overstayed their temporary visas.

The national security program, designed to track the movements of foreigners in
the United States after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, required men
and boys from certain Middle Eastern, Asian and African countries to register
their whereabouts with the federal government. The program has been scrapped.

The Amin brothers came to the United States in 1998 with their mother, Tahira
Manzur, to join their brother, Imran Mughal, a software engineer and U.S.
citizen. The Amins' temporary visas expired a year later, while their mother's
application for a green card was pending. The family blamed bad legal advice,
saying the brothers could have applied for green cards at the same time as their
mother. Manzur got her green card in 2001.

Last year, the U.S. government approved Manzur's petition to keep her sons in
the country. But the Amin brothers' immigration troubles are far from over.

The permanent visas that will allow them to apply for green cards are not yet
available. The government issues a limited number of green cards each year, and
it is unclear when the Amins will be able to apply for them.

``Essentially, they've been told that you're approved, you'll get a green card
one day, but we don't know when that day will be,'' Mughal said. ``It's like a
bank saying you've been approved for a loan, but they don't know when they can
give you the loan.''

Despite the frustrating and uncertain wait, Imran said he is glad his brothers
remain in the United States and have continued to work on their education.

The Amins' immigration court case is still pending. A hearing is scheduled in
April. Delays granted by the government have allowed them to stay while awaiting
the visas that will let them apply for green cards.

Hassan Amin, 21, is a junior at California State University in Fullerton. He
expects to graduate in a year with a business degree.

Ahmad Amin is in his second semester at De Anza College.

``Things happen,'' Hassan Amin said, ``but I think all this motivated me take my
education seriously.''

And finally, Mughal, who focused the past two years on his brothers, is
attending to himself: He is getting married in February.

``It's been a year of torment,'' Mughal said, ``but I'm glad my family is
together.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              309 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday

S.F. stores raided for alleged Versace counterfeiting

LENGTH: 246 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Federal agents raided five San Francisco antique shops in the heart of the
city's tourist districts Wednesday for selling fake Versace furniture,
dinnerware and art, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The same stores were targeted earlier this month when agents arrested 28
foreigners who were illegally employed by the companies. In that raid,
authorities also sought evidence of the illegal shipment of hippopotamus ivory.

The latest search was prompted after a New York-based buyer for Versace last
week visited three stores in San Francisco's Union Square shopping area --
Lloyd's Fine Art and Antiques, Kings Fine Art and Antiques and Gioia Fine Art,
authorities said.

The buyer reported spotting furniture, lamps, ceramics and other items being
sold as Versace, but the ``shapes of the products, their quality and the
intricacy of their patterns were not as good as genuine Versace,'' according to
a search warrant affidavit.

The buyer said ``several of the stores were telling people that the items were
Versace.''

The other stores raided Wednesday were King's Fine Art and Antiques showroom and
Buckingham Palace Fine Art.

The joint investigation by Immigration, the FBI, the Internal Revenue Service
and U.S. Fish and Wildlife remains ongoing.

``The trafficking of counterfeit goods is a global enterprise that robs
legitimate companies of billions of dollars in revenues every year,'' said
Charles DeMore, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              310 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            January 27, 2006 Friday

Plan halted for maps to aid Mexico migrants;
U.S. CIVILIAN PATROLS CITED AS THE REASON

BYLINE: Mark Stevenson, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 544 words


A Mexican government commission said Thursday it has suspended plans to
distribute border maps to migrants planning to cross the border illegally but
denied the decision was a response to U.S. criticism.

Miguel Ángel Paredes, the spokesman for the federal Human Rights Commission,
said the plan would be ``rethought'' because human rights officials in border
states expressed concern that the maps would show anti-immigrant groups -- like
the so-called Minutemen civilian patrols -- where migrants were likely to
gather.

``This would be practically like telling the Minutemen where the migrants are
going to be,'' Paredes said. ``We are going to rethink this, so that we wouldn't
almost be handing them over to groups that attack migrants.''

Mexico is angry about U.S. civilian groups that have organized patrols along the
U.S.-Mexico border, accusing them of carrying out attacks on migrants,
accusations the groups deny.

The Minuteman Civil Defense Corps said it did indeed intend to use the maps to
stake out likely entry points for illegal immigrants.

``If they're going to give out maps, we're going to use those maps to report
that activity to the proper authorities,'' said Chris Simcox, a co-founder of
the group.

But Simcox said his group already knows the locations of many watering spots and
accused the Mexican government of trying to ``vilify'' his group. He said
volunteer reports of migrant activity had helped rescuers locate and save
migrants in danger.

The map dispute was the latest diplomatic row involving the U.S.-Mexico border,
a sensitive issue between the two neighboring nations.

U.S. border states are fed up with illegal migration and drug trafficking and
are pressuring the U.S. government to do more to protect the border -- including
a proposal to extend a wall along both countries' common frontier, something
Mexico bitterly resents.

On Wednesday, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said the United
States opposes ``in the strongest terms'' plans to distribute the maps.

``This effort will entice more people to cross, leading to more migrant deaths
and the further enrichment of the criminal human trafficking rings that prey on
the suffering of others,'' Chertoff said.

Asked if the Mexican decision was a response to U.S. pressure, Paredes said:
``No, we are not responding to that. . . . We have not taken that into
account.''

However, Foreign Relations Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez sought to distance the
Mexican government from the maps.

``We are not involved in the production or distribution of these famous maps,
nor much less in the whole process,'' Derbez said. ``This is not our project,
and thus it is not a project with the government's strategy.''

The commission, a Mexican government-funded agency with independent powers,
originally said it would print and pay for at least 70,000 maps showing
highways, rescue beacons and water tanks in the Arizona desert.

The posters were to have been distributed in border towns and through human
rights offices in Mexico starting in March, when illegal border crossings are
usually high.

The commission denied the maps would encourage illegal immigration, saying
instead they would help guide those in trouble.

Now, the group will ``seek other ways'' of helping migrants, Paredes said.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              311 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

50 pounds of cocaine found in suitcase at S.F. airport

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 174 words


An abandoned suitcase containing close to 50 pounds of cocaine was found at San
Francisco International Airport, Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
reported today.

The find is the largest single seizure of cocaine ever at the San Francisco
airport.

The suitcase turned up in the international terminal on Jan. 12. Investigators
are not commenting on what it looks like, where it might have come from or who
might have brought it into the United States, Virginia Kice, an ICE spokeswoman,
said.

``We have an open and ongoing investigation so we're not talking a lot about
it,'' she said.

The Bay Area street value of the 22 kilograms of cocaine would probably be about
$500,000, although that figure would vary depending on the drug's purity and
country of origin, said Casey McEnry, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Agency.

Cocaine brought into the U.S. from overseas is unlikely to have been
adulterated, so anyone selling it here could increase their profits and the
drug's cost by adding other substances to it, McEnry said.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              312 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday

Washington and National News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 381 words

WASHINGTON

FDA approves speedy test for bird flu

The federal Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved a new laboratory
test that can diagnose bird flu in people within four hours, as opposed to the
dayslong tests now in use.

The new test will be distributed to designated labs in all 50 states beginning
next week and has been shared with the World Health Organization for use in its
labs, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the federal
agency that developed the test.

TEXAS

Jury hears defense in deadly smuggling case

An attorney for one of three people accused in the nation's deadliest human
smuggling attempt argued Friday in Houston that his client hadn't physically
done anything to cause the 19 deaths, and another lawyer blamed federal
immigration policies.

The prosecution asked the jury to focus instead on the victims.

``These were people with hopes and dreams whose lives were ended,'' Assistant
U.S. Attorney Daniel Rodriguez said, showing the jury graphic photos of the
dead.

Victor Sanchez Rodriguez, 58; his wife, Emma Sapata Rodriguez, 59; and Rosa
Sarrata Gonzalez, 51, Sapata's half-sister, are accused of being part of a
smuggling ring that trucked more than 70 immigrants from South Texas to Houston
in May 2003.

During the trip, the immigrants began to succumb to the airtight trailer's
deadly heat. The driver abandoned the trailer in Victoria, about 100 miles
southwest of Houston. Seventeen immigrants died inside and two died later, all
from dehydration, overheating and suffocation.

VIRGINIA

Would-be hijacker's fate will go to jury

More than four years ago, Zacarias Moussaoui was arrested by the FBI while
taking pilot training in Minnesota. He was still in custody when Al-Qaida
hijackers attacked on Sept. 11, 2001.

After a tortuous trip through the legal system, the 37-year-old Frenchman
admitted last April that Osama bin Laden ordered him to train to fly a jetliner
into the White House. He pleaded guilty to conspiring with the Sept. 11
hijackers but claimed not to know their plans.

Monday, a federal court in Alexandria begins picking a jury to decide whether
Moussaoui, the only person charged by the United States in the nation's most
deadly terrorist attack, will be executed or spend life in prison.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              313 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 5, 2006 Sunday

IMMIGRATION HAVENS

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 412 words

QUESTION

The complex -- and often controversial -- issue of immigration is once again
near the top of the political agenda in many industrialized countries. Witness,
for example, the recent riots in Australia or the U.S. debate over illegal
immigration. We wonder: Which of the following countries experienced the highest
rate of net migration between 2000 and 2005?

Answers

A.Australia

B. Spain

C.Canada

D.United States

A.

Australia is

not correct.

Between 2000 and 2005, Australia's net migration rate averaged 5.1 people a year
per 1,000 of its population. The net migration rate is defined as the balance
between the number of persons entering and leaving the country, including
illegal immigrants.

Australia's dynamic economy has attracted many immigrants in recent years, many
of them from Asia. Still, immigration has long been a contentious issue in a
country that, until the 1950s, severely restricted immigration by non-whites --
with tensions culminating in the December 2005 riots in Sydney.

B.

Spain is

correct.

Spain experienced the highest net migration rate of the four countries between
2000 and 2005 -- with 9.7 people per 1,000 of its population, according to data
by the U.N. Population Division.

Morocco accounts for the largest share of foreigners residing in Spain, with
many immigrants also coming from South American countries (such as Ecuador,
Colombia and Argentina) and Eastern Europe (Bulgaria and Romania). In 2005, some
700,000 illegal immigrants used a three-month amnesty program to register with
Spanish authorities.

C.

Canada is

not correct.

Between 2000 and 2005, Canada had a net migration rate of 6.7 per 1,000 of its
population. This openness to foreign newcomers reflects the country's long
history as an immigrant destination as well as its willingness to accept foreign
refugees and its embrace of multiculturalism.

However, like many other industrialized countries, Canada has sought to attract
more skilled immigrants to fill the needs of Canada's growing economy.

D.

United States is

not correct.

With four immigrants coming to U.S. shores each year on a net basis per 1,000 of
the country's population, the United States has a lower rate of net migration
than Australia, Canada or Spain.

In the most recent year, 2005, the net migration rate into the United States is
estimated at 3.3 per 1,000 of population -- less than the rate of the 25
European Union member countries, which stood at an estimated 3.7 per 1,000
population in 2005.

Source: The Globalist

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              314 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            February 10, 2006 Friday

Denmark's veneer of harmony cracked;
FURY OVER CARICATURES EXPOSES DEBATE ON IMMIGRANTS, TOLERANCE

BYLINE: Jeffrey Fleishman, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 934 words


This diminutive nation with an offbeat sense of humor and a strong self-image of
cultural tolerance is not accustomed to having its flag burned, embassies
stormed and coat of arms pelted with eggs.

But Denmark has become a target for the Muslim world's outrage at cartoons
lampooning the Prophet Muhammad.

The scope and intensity of the violence ignited by the caricatures, first
printed in September by the country's right-leaning Jyllands-Posten newspaper,
and reprinted more recently in other publications, have left this country
bewildered.

``A lot of Danes have problems understanding what is going on and why people in
those countries reacted this way,'' said Morton Rixen, a philosophy student,
looking out his window at a city awhirl in angst and snow. ``We're used to
seeing American flags and pictures of George Bush being burned, but we've always
seen ourselves as a more tolerant nation. We're in shock to now be in the center
of this.''

Danes suspect that the furor over the cartoons has been co-opted by the wider
anti-Western agenda of Middle East extremism. Yet they believe the pictures have
cracked the veneer of their nation and exacerbated a debate about immigration,
freedom of expression, religious tolerance and a vaunted perception of racial
harmony often disputed by immigrants.

Denmark is a small portrait of Europe's struggle to integrate a Muslim
population that has doubled since the late 1980s and dotted the continent with
head scarves and back-alley mosques. The cartoons were sketched in an atmosphere
of rising Muslim discontent, a surge in strength for the anti-immigration Danish
People's Party and a commitment to keeping Danish troops in Iraq.

Some people worry that anti-immigrant political parties are exploiting the
burnings of Danish embassies in Lebanon, Syria and Iran to promote a xenophobic
agenda. ``Racism is suddenly popping up in this country,'' said Merete Ronnow, a
nurse who worked in Danish relief efforts in Lebanon and Afghanistan. ``I'm
stunned by this. It's like now Danes can express exactly what they feel. My
colleagues are saying, `Look, this is how a Muslim acts. This is what a Muslim
does.' ''

Recent polls reflect a country of torn emotions, and doubt. The Danish People's
Party has gained three percentage points, but so has its nemesis, the Radical
Left Party. A newspaper headline this week accused Bush and British Prime
Minister Tony Blair of not supporting Denmark through the ordeal. And nearly 80
percent of Danes believe that a terrorist attack looms.

``I don't know what to do. It's amazing to see the Danish flag being burned,''
said Michael Hansen, an engineer. ``It's not fear; it's more anxiety. There have
been terror attacks in the U.S., Spain and in Britain. We are the logical
fourth. If they forgot about us, they've remembered now.''

Hansen's roommate, Martin Yhlen, said: ``The whole cartoon thing was a
ridiculous provocation. The newspaper knew before they published it that people
would be extremely upset. You do have freedom of speech but with that comes a
moral obligation. It doesn't benefit integration in Europe. It widens the
divide.''

Even Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen seems baffled. ``We're seeing
ourselves characterized as intolerant people or as enemies of Islam as a
religion. That picture is false,'' he said Tuesday during a news conference.

``We're facing a growing global crisis that has the potential to escalate beyond
the control of governments and other authorities,'' he said. ``Extremists and
radicals who seek a clash of cultures are spreading it. . . . These are trying
times for the Danish people.''

Flemming Rose is not sleeping well these days. His cell phone glows with
incoming calls. Cultural editor of Jyllands-Posten, Rose commissioned the
caricatures. In an interview one recent night, Rose said he was trying to
correct what he viewed as a troubling self-censorship in the media and arts over
depictions of Islam. His decision to print the caricatures came after a Danish
children's book author, Kaare Bluitgen, could not find an illustrator to draw
Muhammad because Muslims believe any depiction of God or the prophets is
sacrilege.

The caricature Muslims apparently found most offensive in the Jyllands-Posten
showed Muhammad wearing a turban shaped like a bomb. Another depicted the
prophet complaining that paradise had run out of the virgins who suicide bombers
believe await them after death. Their publication, said Rose, was a rallying cry
for freedom of expression and the Western values of political and religious
criticism dating to 18th-century French writer Voltaire.

Rose said Islam should be treated no differently from Christianity or other
religions regarding parody and political satire.

``It's problematic when a religion tries to impose its taboos and rules on the
larger society. When they ask me not to run those cartoons, they are not asking
for my respect. They're asking for my submission. . . . To me those cartoons are
saying that some individuals have hijacked, kidnapped and taken hostage the
religion of Islam to commit terrorism.''

The chief editor of Jyllands-Posten, Carsten Juste, said he hadn't realized the
explosive nature of the caricatures and apologized for offending Muslims -- but
not for exercising freedom of expression.

Rose has no regrets. When asked if the cartoons might have been too provocative
in a time of strained relations between Muslims and Europeans, he said, ``This
has caused a great debate in Western Europe because it hits in the middle of the
controversy. Freedom of speech. Religious respect. It's been very instructive.''

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              315 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 4, 2006 Saturday

Latin America in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 280 words

MEXICO

Talk on immigration heartens U.S negotiators

U.S. and Mexican lawmakers met to discuss migration, security and trade Friday,
and U.S. legislators called on Mexico to do its part to help stem undocumented
border crossing.

The talks 90 miles west of Mexico City are the 45th annual meeting between U.S.
and Mexican legislators.

Members of the U.S. delegation said they were heartened by statements by their
Mexican counterparts that both nations share responsibility in migration and
border security, issues that have caused tension in bilateral relations in
recent months.

``This is, I think, a very important step in the recognition of these important
points,'' said Sen. John Cornyn, the Republican from Texas who was co-leading
the U.S. delegation of two senators and 11 congressional representatives.

``I think it represents a very positive step in the right direction because many
Americans have felt that the Mexican government was essentially complicit in
illegal immigration,'' Cornyn said.

ECUADOR

Ex-president freed; judge says no law was broken

A judge released former President Lucio Gutiérrez from prison Friday, ruling he
broke no law by accusing his successor of conspiring to oust him from power.

Superior Court President Fernando Casares dismissed charges of threatening
national security against Gutiérrez, his brother and his top adviser. If
convicted, they could have been sentenced to up to eight years in prison.

The three men were arrested Oct. 14 after Gutiérrez renounced political asylum
in Colombia and flew home, insisting he remained Ecuador's rightful leader. He
had accused President Alfredo Palacio of illegally usurping power.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              316 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: How citizen sponsors father from overseas

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 637 words


Q  I am a U.S. citizen living in San Jose. My mother passed away Dec. 5 in
Scotland. I am an only child and therefore responsible for my widowed father. He
is 78, a British citizen and anxious to have the opportunity to live in the
United States permanently. My question is, how do I go about this? Also, in the
event of medical care down the road, what would be our options?

Flo McLennanSan Jose

A Because you are a U.S. citizen, you may sponsor your father for lawful
permanent residence by filing Form I-130 at the California Service Center of the
U.S. Citizenship & Immigration Services in Laguna Niguel, according to Mountain
View attorney Carolyn Choi of Allen, Choi & Do.

The form and instructions are available online at
http://uscis.gov/graphics/formsfee/forms/files/i-130.pdf.

With the completed form I-130, Choi said, you will be required to submit proof
of your citizenship (such as a copy of your U.S. passport), proof of your
relationship to your father (a copy of the official government-issued birth
certificate that lists your name and your mother's and father's names) and a
$190 filing fee made payable by check or money order to the Department of
Homeland Security.

It will take about six months for USCIS to process your application. Once it's
approved, Choi said, your father will receive a set of forms from the National
Visa Center of the U.S. Department of State. Complete and return these forms to
the visa center.

Your father will be scheduled for an interview at the U.S. Consulate or Embassy
in the United Kingdom, and will be required to undergo a medical examination by
a physician who has been selected by the U.S. Department of State.

In addition, you will need to complete and notarize Form I-864, the Affidavit of
Support. This document is assurance to the government that your father will not
depend on U.S. public assistance, she said. You will be legally obligated to
provide financial support for your father while he is living in the United
States.

You can download the affidavit from the USCIS Web site,
http://uscis.gov/graphics/formsfee/forms/i-864.htm.

Once your father has immigrated to the United States, you will need to enroll
him in a medical insurance program, she said. The USCIS Web site at
http://uscis.gov/graphics/howdoi/PermRes.htm has a helpful booklet titled
``Welcome to the United States: A Guide for New Immigrants.''

Pages 44 to 46 of the booklet provide an explanation of private medical
insurance, Medicaid and Medicare. In general, Choi said, new immigrants to the
United States who have not worked and paid income taxes for at least 10 years in
the United States do not qualify for Medicare benefits.

New immigrants to the United States who have not worked and paid income taxes
for at least five years in the United States generally do not qualify for
Medicaid benefits, she said.

Citizenship informational workshop: The USCIS has scheduled a free citizenship
workshop in San Jose, ``Overview of Naturalization,'' from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m.
Monday at the St. James Senior Center, 199 N. Third St., San Jose. The session
will be conducted in English, with Chinese translation. The public is asked to
confirm attendance by calling the reservation line, (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To be considered, you
MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone number.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              317 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

Senator blasts U.S. war strategy;
RUMSFELD SHOULD GO, FEINSTEIN DECLARES

BYLINE: Phil Yost, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 546 words


President Bush needs a new team to chart a different course in Iraq, starting
with Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, Sen. Dianne Feinstein said Monday.

``Secretary Rumsfeld is a very strong leader, and I don't think he listens to
many people,'' said the Democratic senator in a question and answer session
after a luncheon speech to the Silicon Valley Leadership Group. ``It's a
problem, and his way hasn't worked so we need to try another way.''

It was the first time she had called for Rumsfeld to be replaced. In her speech,
Feinstein said the United States needs to ``transition the mission'' by reducing
the number of American soldiers in Iraq so that the U.S. military can fight
terror more effectively in other countries such as Afghanistan.

Feinstein was warmly received by an audience of 350 at the San Jose Hyatt. Her
speech ranged over numerous issues including immigration and bringing BART to
San Jose.

On an immigration issue of particular concern to Silicon Valley, Feinstein said
she supported an increase in the number of H1-B visas, under which companies can
bring in highly skilled foreign workers. Raising the cap is a favored cause of
the high-tech industry.

Carl Guardino, president and CEO of the leadership group, said the immigration
debate tends to focus on undocumented immigrants, overlooking the extent to
which ``this valley's economy was built by highly skilled, high-wage foreign
students and workers.''

Three years into the war in Iraq, Feinstein said it's time to ``change the
American mission to a logistical and training one'' that would enable Iraqis to
take over security in their country. U.S. soldiers in Iraq should be reduced
from 130,000 to 80,000 by year's end, she said.

In answer to questions after the speech, she said, ``I think the president
should put in a new team.''

In Washington on Monday, Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., also said it was time for
Rumsfeld to ``be told to go home,'' according to the Associated Press.

Responding to Feinstein's San Jose remarks, Blair Jones, a White House spokesman
said, ``The president is confident in Secretary Rumsfeld's leadership. As the
president recently said, we are implementing a strategy that will lead to
victory in Iraq.''

On an issue close to the heart of the leadership group, Feinstein called herself
``a longtime supporter of bringing BART to Silicon Valley.'' She praised San
Jose Mayor Ron Gonzales for his efforts to extend the transit system south from
Fremont.

The leadership group is an enthusiastic promoter of a half-cent sales tax
increase that will be on the June ballot. Although the tax revenue would not be
restricted to any specific use, the ballot language says money could be spent on
a variety of projects, from trauma and emergency services to health insurance
for uninsured children to ``transportation improvements.'' BART presumably would
get a share.

At the luncheon, Rep. Mike Honda, D-Campbell, made an appeal on behalf of the
tax.

On Monday morning, Feinstein visited the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National
Wildlife Refuge to mark the third anniversary of a project that is converting
salt evaporation ponds back to natural marshes. Feinstein played a central role
in purchasing the ponds for public use.

Contact Phil Yost at pyost@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5636.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              318 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 25, 2006 Saturday

Weekly Editorials

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 494 words

Sunday Immigration

A bipartisan group of U.S. senators may be on the verge of restoring reason to
the debate over immigration that has, as of late, turned ugly. We'll know more a
week from Monday, when the Senate Judiciary Committee considers a plan to permit
temporary work visas, with a path to earned citizenship, for many of the 12
million undocumented immigrants in this country, including an estimated 2.5
million in California.

Monday Health care

Private insurance companies negotiate prescription drug prices for their policy
holders. Federal law allows the Veterans Administration Department of Veterans
Affairs to bargain with drug companies for lower prices. But the Bush
administration -- to the detriment of seniors across the nation -- remains
adamant that Medicare shouldn't be able to negotiate better prescription drug
prices. Efforts to make reverse this devastating policy should remain a priority
before the November election.

Tuesday Sunshine Law

San Jose residents who believe too much of the public's business takes place
behind closed doors need to take a stand for open government. Several proposals
for ``sunshine laws'' are on the council agenda, and a majority of the council
is on record supporting reforms. But Mayor Ron Gonzales said calls for more open
government are ``a bunch of nonsense'' and proclaimed San Jose's ethics laws the
best in the Bay Area, ignoring the fact that San Francisco, Oakland and even
Milpitas have far better sunshine laws.

Wednesday Education

A decade ago, the trustees of California State University system set a target:
By 2007, 90 percent of entering freshmen would be academically ready for
college. With one year to go the goal has proved to be wildly ambitious. Less
than half of this year's freshmen on the CSU's 23 campuses passed a placement
test measuring whether they had the basic skills needed for high-level work.

Thursday Sunshine Law

The wheels are in motion for a San Jose sunshine law that could help restore
public trust in a scandal-plagued City Hall. The prospects looked grim Tuesday
night, when a city council meeting left advocates of serious reform
disheartened. But on Wednesday, Vice Mayor Cindy Chavez -- who has the support
of a majority of council members in her bid for mayor -- said she wants a task
force of city council, staff and community representatives to look at broad
ideas for a sunshine law. That doesn't guarantee an effective law, but it opens
a door.

Friday Taser use

Tasers may or may not cause or contribute to the deaths of hyper-tense,
psychotic or drug-addicted individuals. The evidence is inconclusive. That's all
the more reason for the coroner's offices in Santa Clara County and elsewhere to
consider Tasers among the factors they study when doing autopsies. Their
statistics will help guide police departments' policies on Taser use.

On mercurynews.com

Read complete text of these editorials and check out other issues we're
tracking. Visit the Opinion section.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              319 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Senate panel breathes sanity into immigration debate;
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE WISELY TONES DOWN NOXIOUS ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 450 words


With the support of President Bush and the voices of hundreds of thousands of
protesters ringing in their ears, the Senate Judiciary Committee this week
restored balance to the debate over immigration.

Its bill, which now goes to the full Senate, has all the elements of a solution
that has eluded Congress and divided the nation: tougher border protections, a
guest-worker program for new immigrants, sanctions against companies that don't
comply and an opportunity -- not a guarantee -- for immigrants already here
illegally to seek permanent residency. Close to what Sens. John McCain, R-Ariz.,
and Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., have proposed, the bill is not the inverse of the
provocative and punitive legislation passed by House Republicans last year: It
is a reasoned alternative to it.

Whether reason prevails during the next two weeks of debate in the Senate is
another matter. The bill is a long way from becoming law.

Though the Democrats on the committee, including Sen. Dianne Feinstein, united
behind it, the bill had the support of only four of 10 Republicans. Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist, putting his presidential ambitions above the wishes
of the president, is threatening to pull rank and put his own enforcement-only
bill at the top of the pile.

Even if the Senate does pass a comprehensive immigration bill, it must be
reconciled with the House bill. Republican conservatives so far remain obstinate
that they will consider only border security this year.

Still, the Judiciary bill sets the right tone for a debate that House
Republicans refused to have while ramming through their bill. Gone are noxious
provisions that would have made felons of all illegal immigrants and would have
made church groups and soup kitchens vulnerable to prosecution if they aided
immigrant families.

There'll be no room for compromise if senators reduce the complexities of
immigration to sound bites for November. In dismissing the Kennedy-McCain
proposal as amnesty for lawbreakers, conservatives neither recognize the
contribution immigrants make to the economy nor admit that mass deportations
would create chaos and tear the nation apart.

Label it amnesty or earned legalization, the committee's bill would not grant a
free and easy ride. Citizenship would take 11 years. Among the requirements:
payment of a fine and back taxes, a documented work history, a criminal
background check and learning English.

An opportunity for citizenship is the only way to entice the nation's 12 million
illegal immigrants out of a shadow economy and into a legal visa program. There
can be compromise only if conservatives admit this. Otherwise, two weeks of
potentially acrimonious debate will lead to a stalemate.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              320 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Homeland Security to take digital fingerprints of visiting sailors

LENGTH: 502 words

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates


The U.S. Department of Homeland Security plans to collect digital fingerprints
of merchant sailors arriving at American ports, believing that will improve
security and allow more seafarers to visit the United States, a department
official said.

Robert A. Mocny, deputy director of the department's visitor technology program,
said Tuesday that immigration inspectors at major cargo terminals would be given
hand-held scanners that photograph a sailor and capture his fingerprints.

The data then would be checked against the 1.5 million names on U.S. lists of
terror suspects, criminal fugitives and immigration violators.

Mocny was speaking in Dubai, where he addressed a conference on biometric
security technology. Biometrics involves the measurement of unique human
characteristics like fingerprints and irises.

Digital fingerprint scanners already are being used at U.S. cruise ship ports.
Mocny said the department is testing the scanners on passengers at American
airports and soon would expand the tests to cargo ports.

Already, foreigners who receive U.S. visas must submit fingerprints. Data from
those scans will be embedded in U.S. visas placed in their passports.

``We think this technology has some merit for closing some of the loops,'' Mocny
said. ``We don't yet have that type of infrastructure in our cargo ports of
entry.''

The scanners would allow shore leave for many merchant seamen now unable to pass
U.S. immigration, he said. Foreign sailors on ships whose cargo, ownership or
other features create suspicion often are refused permission to come ashore.
Some of those quarantined aboard their vessels even have U.S. visas, he said.

``These are guys who've been at sea for three or four months who cannot
disembark because they don't have the documentation or don't present a low
enough profile to be allowed ashore,'' Mocny said. ``It's a chance for these
guys to get off and have some fun.''

Port security has been an important issue in the United States since a Dubai
company's purchase of a British firm gave it control of six American ports. An
outcry in the Congress led the Dubai company, DP World, to decide to sell the
U.S. operations to an American firm.

President Bush, along with many in the United Arab Emirates, lambasted Congress'
opposition to the deal, saying it smacked of anti-Arab bias.

Mocny said his visit to Dubai was planned before the ports controversy.

He said the Emirates authorities had showed him their Iris Expellee Tracking
System for immigrant workers, which is said to be the world's largest database
of iris scans. The U.S. company that designed it, Iridian Technologies, says it
contains more than 1 million iris images.

Low-wage laborers granted visas and work permits in the Emirates must submit
iris scans as part of their registration process. New entrants are checked
against a database of those arrested and expelled from the country to ensure
that deportees do not re-enter under false identities.

------

More technology news and opinion at www.siliconvalley.com

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              321 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Latino media played role in L.A. immigrant protests;
MARCHES ORGANIZED, PROMOTED AS DEMONSTRATION OF PRIDE

BYLINE: Gillian Flaccus, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487 words


The marching orders were clear: Carry American flags and pack the kids, pick up
your trash, and wear white for peace and for effect.

Many of the 500,000 people who crammed downtown Los Angeles on Saturday to
protest legislation that would make criminals out of illegal immigrants learned
where, when and even how to demonstrate from the Spanish-language media.

For English-speaking America, the mass protests in Los Angeles and other U.S.
cities over the past few days have been surprising for their size and seeming
spontaneity.

But they were organized, promoted or publicized for weeks by Spanish-language
radio hosts and TV anchors as a demonstration of Latino pride and power.

``This was a much bigger story for the Latino media,'' said Felix Gutierrez, a
professor at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for
Communication. ``If the mainstream media had been paying better attention, there
would not have been the surprise about the turnout.''

Adrian Velasco first learned of House legislation to overhaul immigration policy
on Los Angeles' Que Buena 105.5 FM. Over two weeks, the 30-year-old illegal
immigrant soaked up details about the planned march against the bill from Latino
TV and radio. On Saturday, he and three friends headed downtown.

``They told all the Hispanic people to go and support these things,'' Velasco
said. ``They explained a lot. They said, `Here's what we're going to do.' ''

One of those doing the most talking was El Piolin, a syndicated morning-show
radio host who is broadcast in 20 cities.

El Piolin, whose real name is Eduardo Sotelo and whose nickname means ``Tweety
Bird,'' persuaded colleagues from 11 Spanish-language radio stations in Los
Angeles to talk up the rally on air.

He said he devised the idea of telling protesters to wear white and carry flags
to symbolize their peaceful intent and love of the United States. He also urged
parents to bring their children to minimize chances of violence and reminded
everyone to bring plenty of water and trash bags.

``I was talking about how we need to be united to demonstrate that we're not bad
guys and we're not criminals,'' said Sotelo, 35, who crossed into the United
States as a teenager and became legal in 1996.

In Los Angeles, 10 prime-time Spanish-language news anchors filmed a promotion
urging demonstrators to show respect, said Julio Cesar Ortiz, a television
reporter who covers immigration.

``The Spanish media said, `Do it in a proper way. Do it in a way where's there's
pride behind it when you're done,' '' Ortiz said.

The protests continued Tuesday in at least three states, with thousands of
students leaving school again in California, Arizona and Texas.

In Los Angeles, teens rallied despite campus lockdowns, but their numbers were
far smaller than the tens of thousands who marched Monday. Authorities thwarted
efforts to block freeway traffic, rounding up some youngsters and issuing
truancy citations.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              322 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday

North American leaders confer

BYLINE: James Gerstenzang and Hector Tobar, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 527 words


CANCÚN, Mexico -- With the emotional immigration debate roiling politics to the
north, President Bush arrived Wednesday evening for meetings with Mexican
President Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper.

The three-party conference, aimed at bolstering a year-old economic and security
partnership, comes at a sensitive moment in U.S.-Mexican relations. The Senate
is debating a proposal that would overhaul U.S. immigration laws. It would
tighten border restrictions and create a program that would put millions of
illegal immigrants on track to permanent legal status.

It is unclear whether the United States' latest effort to tighten its borders
will interfere with Bush's ongoing agenda to invigorate economic cooperation,
and how much can be accomplished at the meeting today and Friday, with each
leader in uneasy domestic political circumstances.

Bush is struggling to overcome the lowest approval ratings of his presidency,
Fox is in the final year of a six-year term and cannot run for re-election, and
Harper, who heads a minority Conservative government, came to power only two
months ago after an election in which he was accused of being too cozy with the
Bush administration.

Bush favors allowing restricted numbers of foreigners to work legally in the
United States in a ``guest worker'' program.

Fox, who has praised the Senate measure as ``a step forward,'' is expected to
assure Bush that Mexico will implement greater security measures along the
border if the bill becomes law, Mexican media reported.

Tuesday, Fox said he was ``moderately optimistic'' about the legislation's
prospects, and said the bill resembled the immigration program he promised to
seek soon after taking office in 2000. His inability to make good on the vow has
been one of the disappointments of his presidency.

With the Mexican presidential election little more than three months away, Fox
is under pressure to demonstrate that he remains an effective leader who can
stand up to the United States to defend his country's interests. He has been
working hard to pump life into the campaign of Felipe Calderón, the candidate of
his center-right National Action Party. Calderón trails leftist contender Andrés
Manuel López Obrador by a wide margin in polls.

Both presidential candidates are united in opposing an immigration bill that the
U.S. House of Representatives approved last year. It would make illegal entry
into the United States a felony, criminalize humanitarian assistance to
undocumented immigrants and add 700 miles of barriers along the U.S.-Mexican
border.

The Cancún conference follows a similar three-way meeting a year ago at Bush's
vacation home near Crawford, Texas, at which he, Fox and then-Canadian Prime
Minister Paul Martin established the Security and Prosperity Partnership of
North America, a loosely structured framework intended to enhance cross-border
protections and economic cooperation.

For Bush, the program has become a piece of his initiative to advance U.S.
competitiveness in the global economy, unveiled two months ago in his State of
the Union address.

James Gerstenzang reported from Cancún and Hector Tobar from Mexico City.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              323 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

Youthful demonstrators carry on great American tradition

BYLINE: Roberto J. González

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 774 words


After Jasmine Chávez walked out of Los Angeles County's Montebello High School
Monday, she explained that her decision to break the rules had everything to do
with honoring her family: ``I did it to represent my mom, because she attempted
to come to the United States from El Salvador three times as a 9-year-old. She
was actually put in jail, in prison with real criminals. All that trouble she
went through . . . was for a better education for me, for a better life.''

Some 400 San Jose high school students also walked out of classes this week, and
by doing so they participated in a courageous and historic act: a peaceful
demonstration against HR 4437, a bill proposed by Rep. James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., and passed by the House of Representatives. Among other things it would
have criminalized undocumented immigrants (although this part of the bill was
rejected by a Senate committee earlier this week).

For millions of immigrants, this bill represents not only a threat to their
livelihoods but also a threat to the very integrity of their families. Our
country's 12 million undocumented immigrants have 4 million children and spouses
who are U.S. citizens, many of whom were born here.

From the perspective of immigrants' children (including high school students),
HR 4437 could potentially transform them into orphans if their parents are
deported. This week, politics became deeply personal, threatening to rip apart
families.

For many other young people -- those without documents -- the proposed
legislation threatened to shatter their American dreams of a better future.

Given this background, it is understandable why tens of thousands of students
have been marching in cities across the country, sometimes in defiance of campus
lockdowns. In Los Angeles alone, up to 40,000 students walked out on Monday,
informing each other about the protest via mass e-mails, text messages and Web
sites like MySpace. Some reportedly walked as far as 11 miles to city hall on a
cold and rainy day.

The walkouts are part of a larger wave of mass demonstrations in which
immigrants and those sympathetic to their cause have been led by Latino
activists. They have been turning out in the hundreds of thousands -- a quarter
of a million in Chicago, half a million in Los Angeles, and many thousands more
in Phoenix, Milwaukee, Dallas and other cities.

Those participating in the marches are expressing much more than opposition to
the xenophobic proposals of a Midwest congressman.

They are proclaiming the birth of a new civil rights movement -- a movement
seeking to reclaim the dignity of all people living within our country's
borders, regardless of color, creed or nationality.

Over the weekend, Adan, a 19-year-old friend from a small town in Guanajuato who
has lived in Oakland for nearly a year, told me that he feels lucky to have
full-time work as a janitor during the week. On weekends he earns a bit more
playing trumpet in a mariachi group, and manages to send $250 every month to his
parents, who are building a new house in his hometown.

But not everything has been easy. On several occasions he has confided to me
that he has never felt completely free to move about, and that he lives in fear
of being reported to the immigration authorities. ``All I want to do is work and
live my life, but once in a while I meet someone who treats me with disrespect.
Am I not also a human being?''

This feeling of being second-class citizens is another part of what is driving
the growing immigrant-rights movement. More than a protest against a particular
piece of legislation, the movement is an effort to reclaim the dignity and
humanity of immigrants who are too often treated as invisible people.

Mass marches, rallies and demonstrations are deeply rooted American traditions
in our country, a land of immigrants seeking new opportunities. Howard Zinn's
groundbreaking book, ``A People's History of the United States,'' recounts
hundreds of cases in which ordinary people -- women, slaves, students, working
people, immigrants -- have transformed our country against incredible odds by
doing extraordinary things.

San Jose's high school students decided to make history this week, and
courageously did so with eloquence, passion and grace. They deserve the respect
and support of parents, educators and the broader public.

ROBERTO J. GONZÁLEZ is a professor of anthropology at San Jose State University
and author of the books ``Zapotec Science: Farming and Food in the Northern
Sierra of Oaxaca'' (2001) and ``Anthropologists in the Public Sphere: Speaking
Out on War, Peace, and American Power'' (2004). He wrote this article for the
Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              324 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Democrats' leader assails Bush immigration strategy;
HOWARD DEAN SAYS REPUBLICANS USE LATINOS AS SCAPEGOATS

BYLINE: Scott Lindlaw, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 382 words


Democratic Party chief Howard Dean accused President Bush and the Republican
Party on Friday of exploiting the immigration issue for political gain by
scapegoating Latinos.

Dean and Bush agree on the legislation at the heart of the debate. Both support
a Senate bill that would expand guest-worker programs for an estimated 400,000
immigrants each year.

However, at a speech in an Oakland union hall, the 2004 Democratic presidential
candidate sought to tie Bush to a much tougher House bill that would tighten
borders and make it a crime to be in the United States illegally or to offer aid
to illegal immigrants. Bush does not back the House bill.

``This is a nonsensical proposal put out by far right-wingers in the Republican
Party who have been endorsed for re-election by the president of the United
States,'' Dean said. ``The president has a moral obligation to rein in the
right-wing extremists in his party and stop this divisive rhetoric about
immigrants.''

Dean devoted much of his short speech in Oakland to the immigration debate,
which has taken center stage in Washington this election year and touched off
mass demonstrations elsewhere. More than 500,000 immigration-rights activists
marched in downtown Los Angeles a week ago, largely to protest the House
measure.

Bush has spent his political career courting Latino voters, the nation's
fastest-growing voting bloc, and he has helped double the GOP's share of the
Latino vote since 2000.

Nevertheless, Dean accused Bush and fellow Republicans of demagoguery in the
immigration debate, saying it fit with a longstanding pattern. He cited the
president's opposition to the University of Michigan's affirmative-action
program and Bush's decision to ``pick on'' gays -- an apparent reference to the
gay marriage issue in the 2004 election.

``In 2006 it's immigrants. That's what their strategy is on the Republican side:
Divide people, scapegoat them, set them aside, point the finger at them,'' Dean
said.

Danny Diaz, a Republican National Committee spokesman, said Dean was twisting
the facts on immigration.

``While Republicans are engaged in a debate to reform immigration so it benefits
our country as a whole, Dean and the Democrats are focused on manipulating the
subject in a way that benefits no one but themselves,'' Diaz said.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              325 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Stalemate during summit;
LITTLE PROGRESS IN TALKS FOCUSING ON IMMIGRATION, TRADE

BYLINE: William Douglas, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 499 words


CANCÚN, Mexico -- President Bush and the leaders of Mexico and Canada concluded
a two-day summit at this vacation resort Friday without making visible progress
on immigration or the economic issues that have strained relations among the
three countries.

At a three-way news conference, Bush and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
politely disagreed over an immigration issue that has gotten little attention: a
U.S. law that will go into effect in January 2008 requiring people entering the
United States through Mexico and Canada to carry passports or similar secure
documents.

Harper said he had pressed Bush on Canadian concerns that the law would hurt
trade and tourism. Bush said he is bound by Congress to implement the law, and
he disagreed with Canada's criticism. ``If properly implemented, it will
facilitate trade, not hinder travel and trade,'' Bush said.

``We're obviously concerned that if we don't move quickly and properly on this,
that this could have effects on trade and movement of people, conventions, you
name it, that is not helpful to our economy or relationships,'' Harper said.

The two leaders agreed to have Canadian Public Security Minister Stockwell Day
and U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff meet on the subject.

Harper and Bush also instructed their staffs to restart talks to resolve a
decades-old softwood-lumber dispute.

The three leaders soft-pedaled the bigger immigration question that overshadowed
their summit: what U.S. policy will be toward the estimated 12 million
immigrants now in the United States illegally and toward the millions more who
yearn to come.

Bush signaled that he is resigned to the fact that overhauling the nation's
immigration laws now rests with Congress. Lawmakers are debating the matter
during a congressional election year, and it's one of the most volatile issues
troubling Americans.

``Some guy, some wag one time put it: `It's like watching people make sausage,'
'' Bush said of watching Congress legislate. ``It's kind of unpleasant from your
perspective. But we're making progress. And I want a comprehensive bill.''

Bush stresses that any new immigration law must contain a guest-worker program,
unlike a measure the House of Representatives passed in December, which
concentrates on stiffer border enforcement and punishment for undocumented
workers.

The Senate is debating a comprehensive measure that its Judiciary Committee
approved this week. It would allow illegal workers who were in the United States
as of Jan. 7, 2004, to obtain visas and stay for up to six years while they
apply for permanent residency, pay fines and back taxes, and demonstrate
proficiency in English and civics.

Under the measure's guest-worker program, up to 400,000 new foreign workers a
year could come for up to six years. They also could apply for permanent
residency and citizenship. The committee also would allow up to 1.5 million
undocumented immigrants over a five-year period to hold agricultural jobs under
temporary visas.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              326 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Student protests continue over U.S. immigration bill;
MOST STUDENTS IN SOUTH BAY SCHOOLS CHOOSE TO STAY IN CLASS FRIDAY

BYLINE: Becky Bartindale, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words


Students walked out of Los Altos High School on Friday and marched noisily down
restaurant-lined Castro Street in Mountain View, part of continued protests
against proposed immigration measures.

Larger protests unfolded in San Diego and Bakersfield as schools statewide
girded for demonstrations and walkouts Friday -- Cesar Chavez Day -- and warned
students to stay in class. But the protests seemed to have lost some steam.

More than 60 students from Los Altos High left at lunchtime and marched to City
Hall in downtown Mountain View carrying banners against an immigration bill that
passed the Senate Judiciary Committee on Monday. A provision that particularly
riled students, making felons of undocumented immigrants and those who assist
them, was dropped in committee but could be restored later.

``I'm an immigrant,'' said Martha Gomez, 16, straining to be heard over her
shouting classmates.

``We're going to be criminals for nothing we've done. We came with our parents;
we didn't have a choice. We have been studying here and most of our parents pay
taxes.''

The students, who carried banners decrying the proposed law, HR 4437, were
accompanied by a security guard from the school who came along to make sure they
avoided injury.

``I have to give a lot of credit to the students,'' said the guard, Genaro
Quintana. ``They are getting a lot of support from cars honking.''

The students congregated outside Mountain View City Hall, chanting and shouting.

``It puts a smile on my face every time I hear them cheer,'' said Patty Juanes,
who works in the city clerk's office. Of all the groups that have protested
there, Juanes said, ``they are by far the loudest.''

In San Jose's East Side Union High School District, where about 250 students
walked out Monday, students heeded teachers' warnings Friday against doing it
again, said Alan Garofalo, assistant superintendent for operations.

At one campus, Piedmont Hills High School, about 20 students out of 2,200 walked
around campus protesting for about half an hour, he said, then administrators
ushered them to class.

In the San Jose Unified School district, energetic students at Hoover Middle
School rallied on campus Friday, after walking off earlier in the week. Students
from Lincoln High joined the younger students, urging them to protest lawfully
and not disrupt their education, said district spokeswoman Karen Fuqua.

Thousands of students were reported demonstrating around the state Friday, in
groups large and small. An estimated 1,500 students marched in San Diego and
another 1,000 were reported marching in Bakersfield.

The demonstrations carry consequences for some students and schools.

While schools can collect state daily attendance money when floods, plagues and
earthquakes keep kids out of class, student protests, no matter how heartfelt,
do not qualify, the state superintendent informed schools Thursday.

Many students will pay a price, as well.

The 250 East Side students who left campus Monday and the approximately 50 San
Jose Unified students who marched to City Hall the same day will make up the
lost time in after-school detention or Saturday school, district representatives
said.

All but about three of the 55 students at Pathfinder High School, a charter
school in San Jose, will not be punished, said Executive Director Teresa
Robinson.

``They felt strongly they needed to march,'' Robinson said, noting that many
students and their families would be affected if the bill becomes law.

``We didn't punish them for that reason. We felt every single one of them was
acting appropriately and out of conviction.''

Whether schools actually will lose state attendance money will depend on how
long the protesters stayed away.

``It depends on what time and how long these youngsters left -- whether the
majority of the day was completed,'' said Garofalo, from the East Side district.

If all 250 of the East Side students were considered absent, the district would
lose about $7,500 for that day. San Jose Unified would lose about $1,400.

Mercury News Staff Writer Sharon Noguchi and wire services contributed to this
report. Contact Becky Bartindale at bbartindale@mercury news.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              327 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Immigration debate reflects fear of change

BYLINE: Leonard Pitts Jr.

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 645 words


By chance, I happened to be in Los Angeles last week on the day of the big
immigration rally. Half a million people marching against a proposed federal
crackdown on illegal immigrants. Somehow, I managed not to see any of it.

Tell you what I did see, though: both figuratively and literally, signs of
change. I grew up in Los Angeles, in South-Central to be exact. Back then it
was, or so I once read, the largest black enclave west of the Mississippi.

Not that you'd know it from the aforementioned signs. The churches have become
``iglesias.''The markets, ``mercados.''

I recall a grand total of two Mexican kids in my high school. Driving by the
campus last Friday, I saw ``only'' Mexican kids. When I was a boy, the mayor of
Los Angeles was a white man named Sam Yorty, then a black man named Tom Bradley.
Now he is a man named Antonio Villaraigosa.

Over breakfast Saturday, there was grousing from some of my relatives about the
influx from Mexico. I pointed out that until 1846, California wasMexico.
``They're just taking it back,'' I said, ``one baby at a time.''

I meant it as a joke, but on reflection, I think it gets to the heart of what
has some people scared. In a word, change.

I'm all for immigration reform. Not that I think all reforms are created equal.
For instance, some want to build a fence along our border with Mexico, which
seems to me impractical and rather draconian. Others, and I count myself among
them, favor beefing up the 11,000-person Border Patrol and using high-tech
sensors to track illegal crossings. I also support President Bush's idea for a
guest-worker program, which strikes me as a pragmatic recognition of an obvious
truth: Most Americans would rather not pick produce for a living.

All that said, it seems plain that much of what drives the nation's unease over
illegal immigrants has little to do with economics or even national security. As
columnist Cal Thomas put it recently, Americans fear ``invasion without
assimilation,'' an influx of people who retain their native languages and
customs and thus threaten our ``unique national identity.''

Put aside for a moment that our ``unique national identity'' is not nearly as
monolithic as he makes it sound, this being a place where one can hear country
music, eat Spanish paellaor Ethiopian gomen watt,worship at a synagogue, buy a
sari and rent a Gerard Depardieu movie without ever crossing the street.

The larger point is unassailable: The country is changing. I just disagree that
change is to be feared. If human history tells us anything, it tells us human
beings are not static. Language is fluid, culture shifts and populations move,
driven by war and famine, pulled by opportunity and hope.

Yes, it is jarring when you go to places you used to know and find that now
everybody habla español.But so what? There is a growing population of Muslims in
France now, but so what? Traditionally whiter-than-Osmond Minneapolis is
absorbing a population of the Hmong people, who hail from Southeast Asia. And so
what?

Not to minimize the difficulties these things bring. No, my point is simply that
change has been the one constant of history. What made us think our time would
be different?

The challenge is not to avoid change, but to manage it, to find ways of living
together. It's a moral obligation, particularly in a country whose founding
principle isn't shared language or shared bloodline but, rather, shared creed.
Meaning that truth Thomas Jefferson held self-evident.

Put it like this: An influx of people doesn't threaten our national identity. It
isour national identity.

So there's something ironic in the idea of Americans standing by the borders
wringing their hands over illegal immigrants who don't assimilate into the local
culture.

For what it's worth, I'm sure the Cherokee once felt the same way.

LEONARD PITTS JR. (lpitts@miamiherald.com) is a Miami Herald columnist.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              328 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Mass protest startles laid-back L.A.;
HUGE IMMIGRANT POPULATION REDEFINING POLITICAL CULTURE IN CITY THAT AVOIDS
PUBLIC OUTPOURINGS

BYLINE: Harold Meyerson

SECTION: PE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words


Every so often, for good or ill, Los Angeles astonishes itself. Twice in the
past half-century, the city that most embodied the post-World War II American
Dream was racked by massive racial rioting that shook the city to its core.
Twice in the past half-century, Los Angeles also became the first American
mega-city to elevate minority politicians to its top office -- electing as its
mayor the African-American Tom Bradley in 1973 and the Latino Antonio
Villaraigosa in 2005, in both instances with heavy white support.

On March 25, Los Angeles stunned itself yet again as more than a half-million
largely Latino demonstrators jammed the streets of downtown to protest the
immigration bill passed by House Republicans late last year that would
criminalize undocumented immigrants. Commentators have noted that this was the
city's largest demonstration in recent decades, which is a little like
characterizing a storm that drops 5 feet of snow in the Hollywood Bowl as
unusually inclement weather. In fact, Los Angeles had never seen anything like
the March 25 outpouring, which flooded downtown with more than 500,000 totally
peaceful demonstrators.

Culture shock

Los Angeles has never been a city for public outpourings of any kind; that's not
been the Angeleno way. But somehow nobody remembered to tell this to the city's
huge immigrant population, and in all ignorance of the city's culture of
non-involvement, they redefined my hometown.

Of course, they've actually been redefining Los Angeles in less spectacular ways
for the past 20 years, as anyone who's looked at a construction site or an
office building's janitorial crew or the student body of any L.A. public school
can attest. But the role that the immigrant population has played in
transforming the city's political culture still isn't widely understood.

At the march, for instance, all 500 marshals were provided by Local 1877 of the
Service Employees International Union -- the janitors union. Six years ago, the
janitors galvanized Los Angeles with a successful three-week strike in which
they paraded down the city's streets and encountered -- yet another moment of
civic astonishment -- motorists who, though delayed by the marches, honked in
support and cheered them on. Throughout their strike, the janitors also had the
backing of virtually every L.A.-area elected official, and for good reason: They
had helped put them in office.

For in the election-season endeavors of the L.A. labor movement, it's the
janitors and the hotel workers -- local unions made up disproportionately of
non-citizen immigrant members -- who walk the most precincts and make the most
phone calls. Their civic participation, and that of their fellow immigrant
activists in other unions, is one reason why California became so blue a state,
with such a heavily Democratic House delegation, in the late 1990s.

Now, in the wake of the march, the political clout of these low-wage, can't-vote
immigrants has reached all the way to the U.S. Senate. In part that's because
they command the support of immigrants who can vote. In polling of the nation's
immigrant population released Tuesday (and conducted in nine languages), legal
immigrants opposed key provisions of the House bill by overwhelming margins (73
percent opposed arresting undocumented immigrants as felons) and backed paths to
legalization similar to those passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee on
Monday. After all, the legal immigrants are often relatives of the illegal ones.


Common good

On the whole, the city's immigrant-labor-Latino alliance is mercifully bereft of
nationalist demagogues. More than once, immigrant-dominated districts have voted
for non-Latino labor liberals over their Latino opponents. Villaraigosa, who
addressed the rally, speaks more of a common good than of particularist ones,
and enjoys the support of every ethnic group in town.

Which is not to say that Los Angeles has overcome its rifts of class, race and
language. The non-Latino city and the English-language media were plainly
stunned by the magnitude of the protest -- though on balance, it's hard to
imagine a more healthy surprise. In laid-back Los Angeles, it's the immigrants
who are forging a culture of civic activism, and teaching Angelenos how to be
engaged Americans.

HAROLD MEYERSON is editor at large of American Prospect and the L.A. Weekly. He
wrote this story for the Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              329 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 3, 2006 Monday

Chinese immigrants soak up U.S. etiquette;
GROUP HOPES CULTURAL LESSONS PAVE WAY TO COMMUNICATION

BYLINE: K. Oanh Ha, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 655 words


Though the invitation suggested that women wear spring hats, Crystal Lu took her
social cue from another authority.

``In Town & Country, people wear hats to garden parties,'' said Lu, a Taiwanese
immigrant, citing the magazine for America's leisure class. Instead, Lu wore a
white and pastel dress with a matching sash -- befitting of Sunday brunch at the
elegant Stanford Park Hotel.

Lu, along with a dozen other Chinese immigrants, hoped to pick up other
etiquette tips at the brunch, designed to demystify Easter and teach Chinese
immigrants American manners. During the course of three hours, a dozen
participants learned how to help a lady take her seat, fold a used napkin and
properly spoon soup (away from you).

``Etiquette is a very important part of Western culture,'' said Lu, who reads
Town & Country and Vogue to better understand American customs. ``If you're at a
formal party, you want to act appropriately.''

The event was organized by the Chinese American Etiquette Association, a
non-profit San Francisco group that sends an electronic newsletter to 4,800 Bay
Area professionals and business executives, mostly Chinese immigrants and a
growing number of Americans doing business in China.

Though California is known for its casual culture, many people -- even some born
in America -- still need help navigating the subtleties of American social
customs. During the dot-com boom, Silicon Valley geeks more accustomed to
scarfing down pizza at their cubicles took courses to learn the difference
between a salad fork and a dessert fork.

Aim for understanding

Now, the forces of globalization make etiquette key in paving cultural
understanding across the Pacific.

``Whether you're a Chinese immigrant in the U.S. or an American businessman in
China, you have to adapt to the local culture,'' said Vida Zhang Fargis, who
founded the group last year. ``That's very important if you are doing business
today.''

In a few days, Fargis is moving to Hong Kong and opening an office to extend the
group's reach. The group is also wooing the Beijing Olympic committee, which is
looking to hire consultants to introduce Western etiquette to Chinese officials.
Beijing, for example, has undertaken a campaign to discourage the common
practice of spitting in public.

Fargis, who grew up in China, first took note of the cultural differences more
than a decade ago when she dated her future husband, an American. Over the
years, she found herself explaining American culture to Chinese friends. ``Many
misunderstandings are because of cultural difference,'' Fargis said.

The group's biweekly newsletters offer tips on eating artichokes and grapes with
seeds, and explain how wine savvy can be a professional asset. Beyond table
manners, the organization hopes to teach Chinese and Americans how to
communicate and work together in business settings.

Youling Wu, a manager at biotech firm VaxGen in South San Francisco, hoped to
glean business tips. Though she emigrated from China more than 20 years ago, she
still feels tentative about American cultural practices, especially in the
workplace.

``I have some trouble saying no to people,'' Wu said. ``In Chinese culture, it's
not polite to directly say no.''

Good manners noted

Before the meal, Terry Johnson, a human resources manager, gave a primer on the
meaning of Easter as well as formal dining manners.

``People size you up in the first 10 seconds,'' he told the group. ``Good
manners are an indication of your character and background.''

Dong Lin, a software engineer from Palo Alto, listened to Johnson raptly. When
the Chinese immigrant was invited to a company banquet seven years ago, it was
the first time he had used a knife and fork together.

``Some American manners are still very strange to me,'' said Lin, who delicately
cut the prime rib on his plate. ``They have so many different wine glasses. I
need to practice.''

Contact K. Oanh Ha at kha@mercurynews.com or (408) 278-3457.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              330 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday

Asia news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 242 words

CHINA

Repatriation plan with U.S. nearly finished

Washington and Beijing are close to reaching an agreement that could lead to the
repatriation of thousands of illegal Chinese immigrants in the United States,
U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff said Tuesday.

Chertoff also said he would recommend implementing new X-ray technology to
screen U.S.-bound cargoes at foreign ports after seeing a successful pilot
program in Hong Kong.

There are about 39,000 Chinese citizens in the United States who have been
rejected for immigration but whom Beijing is refusing to accept, said Chertoff,
whose agency oversees immigration. China has cited uncertainty about their
identities.

NEPAL

Protests forbidden as strike approaches

Nepalese authorities banned all forms of public protest in the capital Tuesday
in anticipation of this week's nationwide strike aimed at pressuring King
Gyanendra to restore democracy in his Himalayan nation. The opposition vowed to
defy the ban.

The country's seven major opposition parties have planned marches and rallies
during the four-day strike that begins Thursday.

The government said it had banned mass meetings, protest rallies and
demonstrations in Katmandu.

The ban came a day after the government widened the sweep of its anti-terrorism
law, saying anyone who disseminates information about anti-monarchy communist
rebels could face up to three years in prison and fines of up to $700.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              331 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

For kids, joining protest march can be tough, but rewarding

BYLINE: Mike Cassidy, Mercury News

LENGTH: 119 words


If my kids walked out of school to protest wrongheaded immigration ideas in
Washington D.C., I'd lower the boom.

Grounded. No television. Forget about visiting with friends this weekend.

And then I'd hug them. And praise them. And tell them how proud I am that they
stood up for what they believed.

The marches. The demonstrations. They've been the most beautiful thing about the
angry debate over what to do with, for or to illegal immigrants. The young,
idealistic, energetic and bright, marching through the streets and rallying for
a cause.

The marchers will be out again Monday, the ``National Day of Action for
Immigrants.''

Read Mike Cassidy's complete column in the local news section of tomorrow's
Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              332 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Lessons for students on protesting

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 758 words


Attention, class. With another immigration march scheduled for Monday in San
Jose, we're overdue for a lecture on student protests. Let's call it ``Walkouts
101: How Ditching School to Protest Stupid Immigration Laws Can Backfire on
You.''

It's been a long time since I walked out of my high school in East Los Angeles
in 1968, but I still know the lyrics to ``Street Fighting Man'' by heart. I just
hum the old Stones' anthem at a keyboard these days.

My heart was warmed recently when thousands of teenagers, most of them of
Mexican or another Latin American origin, skipped classes across the land to
demonstrate against a Republican plan to turn illegal-immigrant nannies into
felons and put their American helpers in the slammer. Still, kids, you need to
listen to a walkout veteran's advice.

I offer a personal story to start:

In 1970, when Los Angeles schoolteachers went on strike, I supported them by
boycotting my classes at Garfield High School. Since I had walked out two years
before to protest unequal education, I fancied myself a seasoned activist. Boy,
was I wrong.

When the teachers returned, I had to face my Latino teacher in Mexican-American
studies.

``It says here you haven't been to class for weeks,'' I remember him telling me.
``Where were you?''

Uh, supporting the teacher strike. I boycotted school in solidarity.

``You boycotted? Did we ever ask you to boycott?''

No, sir.

``If we wanted your help, we would have asked you. You didn't accomplish
anything except hurt your own education.''

And to make sure I understood, he wrote a big, fat ``F'' on my midterm report
card. So much for liberal solidarity.

With graduation only a few weeks away, I scrambled just for a ``C.'' It matched
my worst grade ever, but it taught me a valuable lesson for turbulent, political
times: Civil disobedience never comes cheap, but it produces better results and
hurts a lot less when you get it right.

``We know there'll be punishment, maybe some expulsions,'' a 16-year-old
Mexican-American sophomore told me at the large rally in downtown San Jose
recently. ``To be honest with you, this walkout wasn't well-organized. We just
felt the immigration bill needed to be looked at.''

You've got to love kids who feel passionately about any political cause in this
day of brain-baking video games and bubble-headed reality television. But
somehow, even motivated young people haven't learned the political art of civil
disobedience and protest.

So, while they're sitting in detention after school, let's have them review
these basics:

Aim for the target:

When Cesar Chavez unionized grape pickers, he boycotted grapes, not grapefruit.
Martin Luther nailed his Protestant manifesto to the door of a Catholic church,
not to a lamppost. Ditching algebra class to protest an immigration bill is
missing the bull's-eye by a mile.

Walking out hurts schools because they are funded through a daily attendance
formula. Look, most urban schools have become safe havens for illegal-immigrant
students. Why disrespect them?

Homework assignment: See the HBO television movie ``Walkout,'' about the
carefully planned and focusedEast Los Angeles student protests in 1968 against
unequal education.

Don't give ammunition to the opposition:

I know the anti-illegal-immigration crowd well enough by now. They're thinking,
``Look at all those little, illegal-alien lawbreakers walking out of schools
that hardworking, law-abiding American citizens pay for. It only proves they
don't appreciate this country. Get rid of them.''

It's a totally dumb argument, but a lot of people believe it. Therefore you
shouldn't do anything to reinforce it.

Homework assignment: Start collecting American flags for the next after-school
immigrant-rights march. Leave the Mexican flags at home.

Walking in is better than walking out:The whole point of walking out in 1968 was
to make it possible for more students to walk into college and get better jobs.
No matter what happens in Washington on the immigration front, today's students
can change the political landscape tomorrow if they make the most of their
educational opportunities now.

Homework assignment: Come up with a practical, moral and smart immigration
policy. Trust me, Congress and the White House won't beat you to it. Form study
groups. Get your plan published. Post it on the Web.

One more thing:Don't taunt the police. They have billy clubs and guns. You
don't.

Class dismissed. Good luck, and be careful out there.

Contact Joe Rodriguez at jrodriguez@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5767.

Do you have a story idea for East Side/West Side?

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              333 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              April 9, 2006 Sunday

Organizers strive to unite Latinos on immigration

BYLINE: N.C. Aizenman, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words


On the eve of demonstrations by Latinos in dozens of cities across the country,
protest organizers said they would strive to transform momentum over the
immigration controversy into a lasting civil rights movement that unifies the
nation's largest minority population.

They face the challenge of appealing to a population that is divided
economically, racially and by national origin, a fact that has perplexed
marketing and political strategists. And some experts say they fear that forming
a political coalition around issues more broad-based than immigration might
prove daunting.

Demonstrations are planned for more than 60 cities, including San Jose, on
Monday.

``Our challenge is to transform this massive movement of people in the streets
into a massive movement of people to the polls,'' said Angelica Salas, executive
director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles, where a
demonstration last month drew more than 500,000 people. ``Ultimately in a
democracy, your influence depends on putting people in power to represent your
interests.''

If political power comes to a population now estimated to number more than 40
million people -- hailing from more than 20 countries -- it will come gradually.

Only 40 percent of U.S. Latinos are eligible to vote, according to a recent
study by the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute at the University of Southern
California, and fewer than half vote regularly. One-third of Latinos are too
young to vote. And an estimated 27 percent are adults but non-citizens or
illegal immigrants.

Legislative impact

Although immigrants from all countries would be affected by legal changes, a
wave of Latino protest coalesced after the House passed legislation that would
make illegal immigration a felony and penalize those who employed such
immigrants. Apparent agreement on a Senate compromise that would have opened a
path to citizenship for millions illegally in the country collapsed Friday under
the weight of election-year politics.

``A community that had essentially been trying to remain invisible suddenly
concluded that their invisibility was only making them more vulnerable,'' said
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, which
advocates expanding immigrant rights.

But Sharry said activism could be undermined if legislation similar to the
Senate proposal ever finds its way into law.

``I suspect a lot people will start busying themselves with getting on the path
to legal permanent residence, and that could take the political momentum out,''
Sharry said.

This cycle of success followed by complacency has played out during several
previous waves of Latino activism -- most recently in California during the
1990s. In 1994, when voters here adopted Proposition 187, denying some public
benefits to illegal immigrants, many Latinos perceived the move as a personal
attack by Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, who had advocated the measure. Mass
demonstrations were followed by a surge in voter registration and political
activism by Latinos.

Two successive Democratic candidates were swept into the governor's mansion, and
the state became a reliable voter for Democratic presidential candidates.

Once the sense of crisis abated, fewer California Latinos turned out to vote. In
the 2002 general election, for example, Latinos represented 17 percent of
registered voters but 10 percent of those who voted.

Maintaining momentum

Organizers of the demonstrations set for tomorrow said they plan to counter the
pattern by convening a national conference in June, probably in Milwaukee, to
craft an agenda that carries the movement beyond a single legislative goal.

``We're going to be talking about what a pro-immigration platform looks like and
how to maintain it,'' said Kimberly Propeack, advocacy director for CASA de
Maryland, an immigrant rights group.

The effort to mold an issue into a movement might be hampered by the absence of
a nationally recognized leader to fulfill the galvanizing role that the Rev.
Martin Luther King Jr. played for the African-American civil rights movement, or
that Mexican-American labor activist Cesar Chavez played for West Coast
farmworkers.

The lack of such a figure is at least partly due to the nature of the
organizations underlying the current mobilization.

While many leaders of the civil rights movement emerged from historically
African-American colleges or Protestant churches that fostered oratory, the
recent demonstrations have been the work of a diverse, dispersed grass-roots
network of community service organizations, social clubs, unions and
Spanish-language media outlets.

``Without a Dr. King-like figure, we lack the capacity to create that personal
connection, not just within our own community but with folks on the outside,''
said Cecilia Muñoz, vice president for policy for National Council of La Raza, a
Latino advocacy group. ``Someone with that kind of visibility is really useful
in terms of educating people.''

Although there is no identifiable leader to reconcile the inevitable fractures
that have emerged as so many groups try to harmonize their activities, Salas
said the decentralized nature of the movement also has one advantage.

``There's no one leader who could disappear and affect the movement,'' she said.
``Instead, you have all these local communities with their own independent local
leaders.''

And many Latino leaders say that whatever the fate of their movement in the
short run, their success over the long term is virtually guaranteed by the
millions of U.S.-born Latinos who will turn 18 over the next decade.

The most lasting effect of the demonstrations might be the passion it ignites
among the young people who participate, said Antonio Gonzalez, executive
director of the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, which has
registered millions of Latino voters.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              334 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 10, 2006 Monday

VTA bus lines to be rerouted during S.J. immigration march

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 250 words


The Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority will reroute some bus lines
today during the planned march for immigration rights in San Jose, where
thousands of immigrant advocates are expected to rally against immigration bills
pending in Congress.

The march was scheduled to kick off at the corner of King and Story roads in
East San Jose at 3 p.m. today and continue on streets toward downtown San Jose
before winding up outside City Hall around 7 p.m.

Meanwhile, VTA bus lines 22, 77 and 25 could be affected as VTA prepares to
implement the following changes from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. today:

All line 22 schedules will use Highway 101 between Tully and McKee roads.

All line 77 schedules will follow a portion of the 70 and 81 lines rather than
its usual route on King Road.

All line 25 schedules remain in tact but will have a reroute available if
traffic builds up in the area of Story and King roads.

Extra service will supplement line 77 with routes connecting to lines 22 and 522
at 24th and Julian streets.

VTA also notes that Light Rail schedules could experience delays as a result of
the march.

Passengers may contact VTA Customer Service for information on routes at (408)
321-2300 or visit the Web site at www.vta.org.

Get the latest on this and other traffic situations with our real-time road
reports at http://traffic.mercurynews.com

Copyright © 2006 by Bay City News, Inc. -- republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              335 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

25,000 MARCH DOWNTOWN

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Joe Rodriguez and Sandra Gonzales, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words


In the South Bay's biggest immigrant protest in 20 years -- and the largest in
California on Monday -- thousands of immigrants and their supporters marched
shoulder to shoulder down San Jose streets from the East Side to City Hall.

The historic gathering was repeated by hundreds of thousands in dozens of U.S.
cities in a National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice.

San Jose's march grew into a mile-long procession that moved steadily down South
King Road and swelled to as many as 25,000 protesters, according to police
estimates, by the time the throng reached City Hall.

Many of the marchers were illegal immigrants, energized by support from
advocates and newly emboldened to reveal their status in the wake of a national
debate over proposed legislation that could decide the future of the nation's
estimated 12 million illegal immigrants.

``We're here to support all immigrants,'' said Edgar Ventura, a 19-year-old
construction worker who came illegally to the United States two years ago. He
and five others from El Salvador drove from the Peninsula to the rally in a
small pickup truck. ``We want to show the immigration authorities that we're not
criminals.''

The procession stretched along Santa Clara Street, led by a group of Aztec
dancers in full feather costume.

When the march left the corner of King and Story roads, police estimated the
crowd at 2,000 people. By the time it reached the intersection of Alum Rock and
King, the crowd had grown to more than 4,000. Dozens of uniformed police on
motorcycles, bicycles and horses were nearby, observing. Nearly 2 million
protesters marched Monday in 10 states and 70 cities. In California, officials
said 5,000 marched in Fresno and 10,000 in Los Angeles. San Jose's marchers came
from all over Northern California.

``We're here to say it's a united country of immigrants,'' said Carmen Puga, 36,
a teacher's aide who drove from Watsonville. . She and her son, Hector, 13, held
up a hand-painted map of the United States, each state emblazoned with a flag of
another nation.

Many marchers waved American flags alongside the Mexican flag. Others draped
them like ponchos on shoulders, or wrapped them, bandanna-style, around the
heads of children. Clusters of white balloons floated above the crowd of people
straining to listen to speeches by labor and religious leaders and immigrants.
Many wore white T-shirts, the signature color of recent immigrant rallies.

Each of the speakers denounced legislation approved by the House of
Representatives late last year that would make felons of illegal immigrants and
impose criminal penalties on those who help them.

A more moderate Senate bill collapsed last week amid angry debate. It proposed
to offer a path to citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants and to enhance
border protection and a guest worker program.

With the Senate on a two-week break, the future of the bill, favored by labor
and immigrants, may be in doubt, but it hasn't slowed the growing immigrant
protests.

``All across the country we're finding immigrant and native born are all coming
out together,'' said Anna Burger, chairwoman of Change to Win, a national
federation of seven unions that represents 6 million workers around the country.
``People are standing up for the rights of immigrant workers.''

``Is it energizing? Definitely,'' said Rosa Campos, a retired public school
teacher who joined the rally at City Hall where Burger spoke.

Though orderly, the march caused traffic headaches as the California Highway
Patrol closed off-ramps to Alum Rock Avenue on Highway 101 and King Road on
Interstate 680 to help the marchers along. Traffic was also jammed along Santa
Clara Street and King Road, San Jose Police Lt. Kevin Smith said.

``I've never seen a demonstration this size in San Jose,'' said Smith, who
supervised traffic control. ``It was extremely well organized. The demonstrators
were very respectful.''

On Alum Rock, Vietnamese, Latino and Portuguese business owners stood on
sidewalks, pumping fists, flashing peace signs and waving to the marchers in
solidarity. Some joined in the march to the cheers of the walkers while others
played Latino music. Motorists driving by honked and waved.

``We just want to show the American people that we are peaceful,'' Puga said,
``and that we're here for the same reasons they are: equal opportunities.''

Puga was 6 years old when she and her mother crossed illegally into the United
States from Mexico. She is now a U.S. citizen and married to Marco Lanton, whose
great-grandfather was an Italian immigrant from Mexico.

Although the call for immigration reform has been characterized as an issue that
affects just Latinos, its impact is broader, said Larisa Casillas, policy
director for Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network.

Many non-profit groups that serve the Bay Area's diverse immigrant community
joined Monday's rally. ``I know many in the African community in San Jose who
would be hurt'' by strict, punitive immigration laws, said Musa Kamara, a
political refugee from Sierra Leone who was at the rally.

The Vietnamese are political refugees, too, and ``share the experience of all
immigrants, no matter where they come from,'' said Khanh Tran, a union
representative for the United Food Commercial Workers Local 428.

``We have to be here with other immigrants to join voices.''

And their call to action is far from over: Organizers are planning a national
protest on May 1, and will ask immigrants, laborers and supporters to skip work
to illustrate their impact on the economy.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              336 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Rallies shove aside concerns of nation's blacks;
IMMIGRATION'S EFFECTS FELT BY LESS-SKILLED AMERICANS

BYLINE: Teresa Watanabe, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 736 words


Najee Ali, an African-American activist, tries to turn out for as many civil
rights rallies as he can. But on the day that hundreds of thousands of Latinos
marched through downtown Los Angeles for immigrants rights, he had no idea it
was happening until he turned on the TV.

``They didn't call us; they didn't need to call us,'' Ali said of march
organizers during a recent dialogue between blacks and Latinos about illegal
immigration. ``Once I saw the half million, I felt fear, in a sense,'' that
blacks ``might be marginalized in the future when it comes to jobs and political
empowerment.''

Ali's fears underscore the complex sentiments many blacks feel about the surging
number of immigrants who have transformed their neighborhoods and schools, the
workplace and the political arena.

So far, African-American voices have not been featured in the national debate
about immigration reform, even though some believe they have the most at stake.

``In this era of mass immigration, no group has benefited less or been harmed
more than the African-American population,'' said Vernon Briggs, a Cornell
University labor economist who has studied the effect of immigration on blacks
for more than three decades.

In a 2004 book, ``The Impact of Immigration on African Americans,'' Briggs and
other scholars charted myriad effects, including lower wages for less-skilled
and less-educated blacks and their substantial displacement from the job market,
with many dropping out of the labor pool entirely. In education, they found that
providing remedial resources for immigrant students cut into resources for
native-born students and modestly displaced blacks from affirmative action
programs.

But they also found some positive effects: The larger number of low-skilled
workers, for instance, helped push better-educated blacks up the occupational
ladder, enhancing their managerial opportunities.

Briggs said the effect is strong because blacks and Latinos tend to cluster in
the same urban areas and lower-skilled labor markets.

The transformation of Central Los Angeles neighborhoods from majority black to
majority Latino has stirred complex feelings of pride for Randy Jurado Ertll,
33, a Latino educational consultant, and a sense of pain and loss for Kimela
Santifer-Berry, 48, a black woman studying for a license as a real estate agent.

Ertll, a U.S. citizen of Salvadoran descent, moved into the largely black area
in 1978 and recalls black gang members robbing immigrant children, including
himself, of their lunch money and bus passes. By third grade, however, Ertll's
best friend was black, as were most of the customers at his aunt's market and
mother's beauty salon.

Today, the neighborhood has become dominated by Salvadorans and other Central
Americans, and Ertll said he wants to bridge the gap between Latinos and blacks
and to encourage ``power sharing.''

``I think the lack of jobs is what creates so much despair and hopelessness,''
he said. ``Elected officials have to find a way to create jobs for both
African-Americans and Latinos in South-Central L.A.''

Santifer-Berry, who voted for Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, says she also would
like to see reduced tension between the two groups. But she said it bothers her
that so many of her neighbors cannot speak English. In her job last year at an
import-export firm, she said, most of the drivers who picked up and delivered
goods spoke only Spanish.

``Why should we have to learn Spanish when this is America?'' she asked.

Santifer-Berry agrees with Ertll that jobs are a major flash point. To
illustrate, she recently took a visitor through her neighborhood, stopping at
one restaurant and retail outlet after another to count the number of black
employees.

``Five customers, all black. Four workers, all Latino,'' she said at one fried
chicken restaurant. ``Now, is that right?''

Research backs up suspicions that mass immigration has made their lives tougher.

The book on immigration and blacks, for instance, features studies by Briggs and
others who argue that blacks have historically enjoyed greater economic
opportunities when immigration was restricted, causing employers to hire more
women, elderly and young people. Growing immigrant labor pools have allowed
employers to drive down wages for blacks and have correlated with black
withdrawal from the labor market, the researchers found.

Los Angeles Times Staff Writer Sandy Banks contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              337 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 11, 2006 Tuesday

Immigration protest march floods S.J. streets;
ORGANIZERS EXPECT THE MARCH FROM EAST SAN JOSE TO DOWNTOWN CITY HALL TO ATTRACT
20,000

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Joe Rodriguez and Sandra Gonzalez, Mercury News

LENGTH: 347 words


On an East Side San Jose intersection dominated by Latino and Vietnamese
businesses, thousands of Bay Area immigrants and their supporters waving and
wearing American flags rallied in support of immigration reform Monday. Hundreds
of thousands, in scores of cities across the country, were expected to
participate in a National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice.

Many of the protest marchers were illegal immigrants, energized by support from
advocates and now unafraid to reveal their status in public.

Organizers were expecting 20,000 to march from East San Jose to downtown city
hall which pales in comparison to gatherings elsewhere -- an estimated half
million thronged in Washington, D.C.. Still it is believed to be the largest
protest march by immigrants in the South Bay in 20 years.

``We're here to say it's a united country of immigrants,'' said Carmen Puga, 36,
a teacher's aide from Watsonville, who, like many of the the rally participants,
took the day off to join in the march. She and her son Hector, 13, held up a
handpainted map of the United States, each state emblazoned with a flag of
another nation.

The American flag was the choice accoutrement of the marchers who waved them
alongside the Mexican flag. Many draped flags like ponchos, or wrapped them like
bandannas on young boys' heads. Clusters of white balloons floated above the
heads of the crowd, straining to listen to labor and religious leaders and
immigrants. Speakers denounced legislation approved by the House of
Representatives late last year that would make felons of illegal immigrants and
impose criminal penalties on those who help them.

A Senate bill offering a path to citizenship to millions of illegal immigrants,
enhanced border protection and featured a guest worker program collapsed last
seek after debate and feuding. The Senate is now on a two-week break, and the
future of the bill, favored by labor and immigrants, is in doubt.

``We just want to show the American people that we are peaceful,'' Puga said,
``and that we're here for the same reasons they are: equal opportunities.''

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              338 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

Congressional Republicans soften immigration stance;
CALL TO REMOVE FELONY PROVISION FROM HOUSE BILL

BYLINE: Jonathan Weisman, Washington Post

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 686 words


In the wake of this week's massive demonstrations, many House Republicans are
worried that a tough, anti-illegal-immigration bill they thought would please
their political base has earned them little benefit while becoming a lightning
rod for the fast-growing national movement for immigrant rights.

Tuesday, GOP leaders in the House and the Senate called for removing a provision
in the House-passed immigration bill that would make it a felony for an illegal
immigrant to be in the United States.

The written statement from House Speaker Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee seeks to deflect blame for the harshest
provisions of the House bill on the Democrats. The statement did not represent a
change in position for the Republican leadership, which supports making the
offense a misdemeanor.

Democrats ``voted to make felons out of all of those who remain in our country
illegally,'' the leaders wrote. ``It remains our intent to produce a strong
border security bill that will not make unlawful presence in the United States a
felony.''

Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., fired back that ``there's no running away from the
fact that the Republican House passed a bill and Senator Frist offered one that
criminalizes immigrants.''

House Republicans rushed through legislation before Christmas that would build
hundreds of miles of fence along the U.S.-Mexico border, mandate that businesses
verify the legality of all employees through a database, fortify the Border
Patrol and declare illegal immigrants and those who help them to be felons.
After more lenient legislation failed in the Senate last week, the House-passed
version burst into public this week, as hundreds of thousands of protesters
nationwide turned out to denounce the bill.

House Democrats acknowledged that they helped block Republican efforts in
December to soften the Republican-crafted section declaring illegal immigrants
to be felons, but they said responsibility for the bill rests with the
Republicans, who voted overwhelmingly for its passage.

``The Democrats were not going to do anything to make it easier for Republicans
to pass an atrocious bill,'' said Jennifer Crider, a press officer for House
Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-San Francisco.

Tuesday's maneuvering underscores how the immigration issue has mushroomed into
a fierce political debate with large political stakes heading into the November
congressional elections. The thousands of protesters in the streets Monday
vividly demonstrated the power of the issue, which some strategists say
threatens to undercut President Bush's longstanding hope of making Latino voters
a GOP constituency.

``There was political calculation that they could make this the wedge issue of
2006 and 2008, but it's not playing out that way,'' said Rep. Raul Grijalva,
D-Ariz. ``This has galvanized and energized the Latino community like no other
issue I have seen in two decades, and that's going to have electoral
consequences.''

The politics of the issue have shifted markedly since the House acted.
Republican lawmakers are increasingly saying that they will now consider some
avenue to grant illegal immigrants access to lawful employment. Democrats who
voted for the House bill with an eye on their political futures or to pre-empt
attacks from conservatives are rethinking their position.

The House measure passed after GOP leaders had rushed lawmakers back to
Washington for a December session to vote on the immigration measure, hoping to
give their members an accomplishment to tout over the winter recess. But it was
the maneuvering of Democrats that preserved the bill's most infamous provision,
declaring illegal immigrants felons.

The bill, written by House Judiciary Committee chair James Sensenbrenner,
R-Wis., included the felony provision. But when he took it to the House floor,
Sensenbrenner offered an amendment to downgrade the offense of being an
undocumented worker from a felony to a misdemeanor.

The Democratic leadership pushed its members to vote against the amendment, and
191 Democrats did.

The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              339 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 14, 2006 Friday

U.S. bill causing border surge;
IMMIGRANTS ENCOURAGED BY PROSPECT OF WORK PROGRAM

BYLINE: Olga R. Rodriguez, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 925 words


At a shelter overflowing with migrants airing their blistered feet, Francisco
Ramírez nursed muscles sore from trekking through the Arizona desert -- a trip
that failed when his wife did not have the strength to go on.

He said the couple would rest for a few days, then try again, a plan echoed by
dozens reclining on rickety bunk beds and carpets tossed on the floor after
risking violent bandits and the harsh desert in unsuccessful attempts to get
into the United States.

The shelter's manager, Francisco Loureiro, said he had not seen such a rush of
migrants since 1986, when the United States allowed 2.6 million illegal
residents to get U.S. citizenship.

This time, the draw is a bill before the U.S. Senate that could legalize some of
the 11 million people now illegally in the United States while tightening border
security. Senators failed to agree on a compromise version of the bill before
adjourning for Easter break, but are expected to take it up again later this
month.

Migrants are hurrying to cross over in time to qualify for a possible
guest-worker program -- and before the journey becomes even harder.

``Every time there is talk in the north of legalizing migrants, people get their
hopes up, but they don't realize how hard it will be to cross,'' Loureiro said.

South-central Arizona is the busiest migrant-smuggling area, and detentions by
the U.S. Border Patrol there are up more than 26 percent this fiscal year --
105,803 since Oct. 1, compared with 78,024 for the same period a year ago. Along
the entire border, arrests are up 9 percent.

Maria Valencia of U.S. Customs and Border Protection said the rise in detentions
did not necessarily mean more people were crossing. She attributed at least some
of the additional detentions to an increase in the number of Border Patrol
agents.

``We've sent more technology and agents there, and I think that's had an
impact,'' she said.

But Loureiro, who has managed the shelter for 24 years, said the debate in the
U.S. Congress has triggered a surge in migrants. In March, 2,000 migrants stayed
at the shelter -- 500 more than last year.

Many migrants said they were being encouraged to come now by relatives living in
the United States.

One of them is Ramírez, a 30-year-old who earned about $80 a week at a rebar
factory in Mexico's central state of Michoacán.

He spent an entire night walking through the Arizona desert with his wife, Edith
Mondragón, 29. When her legs cramped, their guide abandoned them and the couple
turned themselves in to U.S. authorities. They were deported.

But they said they would try again when they regained their strength.

``We want to try our luck up there,'' Mondragón said. ``We can't go back to
Michoacán because there is no future there.''

Ramírez said the draw was not only the prospect of work in Minnesota, where two
of his brothers milk cows on a ranch. He was also excited about the idea that he
might be able to do it legally.

``My brothers said there is plenty of work there, and that it looks like they
will start giving permits'' to work, he said.

Many of the migrants also are being driven by a desire to get into the United
States before the likelihood that lawmakers further fortify the border.

Since the United States tightened security at the main crossing points in Texas
and California in the 1990s, hundreds of thousands of migrants have turned to
the hard-to-patrol, mesquite-covered Arizona desert, risking rape, robbery and
murder at the hands of gangs and now facing being reported by armed U.S.
civilian groups.

About 2,000 people a day pass through Sasabe, a hamlet of just a few dozen
houses and a Western Union office west of Nogales, says Grupo Beta, a Mexican
government-sponsored group that tries to discourage migrants from crossing the
border and helps people stranded in the desert.

On a recent afternoon, at least 40 vans overflowing with migrants arrived in the
desert near Sasabe in less than an hour. Migrants and their smugglers waited for
nightfall before starting a desert trek that would involve up to a week of
walking in baking heat during the day and biting cold at night.

Grupo Beta agent Miguel Martínez monitors a checkpoint 20 miles south of Sasabe,
where he warns of the dangers of the desert, such as bandits armed with knives
or guns who order migrants to strip naked, rob them and sometimes rape them.

He also tells about the volunteer border-watch groups that have sprung up in
Arizona.

``Right now there are migrant hunters who are armed, and you should be
careful,'' Martínez told a group traveling in a rickety van missing some
windows.

At Grupo Beta's office in Nogales, Raúl González, 44, said he walked in the
Arizona desert for five days before turning himself in when the blisters on his
feet started bleeding and his left leg swelled up.

Like most migrants interviewed for this story, González said he was robbed at
gunpoint just after crossing into the United States.

``The guides and the robbers are all the same,'' he said.

González said the first time he sneaked into the United States, he did it
through Tijuana, across the border from San Diego. He said he worked illegally
at a printing shop in Chicago for 15 years but got homesick before he could
settle the paperwork for legal residence.

Despite the robbery and his failed trek, González said he would try again once
his feet heal. His bricklayer's salary of about $60 a week in the western state
of Jalisco simply is not enough to provide for his four children.

``It's hard to cross,'' he said. ``But it's harder to see your children have
little to eat.''

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              340 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday

Sunday Global warming

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 483 words


California has a chance to expand on its historic role as a pioneer in reducing
pollution and auto emissions and promoting energy conservation and efficiency.
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and Democrats in the Legislature share the goal of
reducing emissions of greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by 2020. For once, the two
sides must put partisanship and election-year politics aside and commit to work
together to do what's right for California and for the future of the planet.

Monday Immigration

Senators have fled Capitol Hill for another two-week vacation. But they won't be
able to run away from immigration reform. From coast to coast, tens of thousands
of people will take to the streets in prayer vigils and rallies. They'll be
protesting the callous anti-immigration bill that the House has passed and to
insist the Senate correct the measure by treating undocumented immigrants with
respect. If protest voices are loud and their numbers are great, senators will
feel pressure to finish the work they abandoned.

Tuesday Toddler death

Katrina Hatton has made a number of bad choices as a young woman -- the worst
being the inattention that led to the death of a 2-year-old boy in her care. But
as awful as that misjudgment was, Hatton did not deserve prison. Instead, the
court accepted a settlement: four years of probation and $10,000 restitution. It
is an appropriate punishment for a tragedy that enmeshed the lives of young
single mothers.

Wednesday Government

The family feud between San Jose and Santa Clara County makes the Hatfields and
McCoys look like pikers. The latest volley of lawsuits ended this week with the
city bleeding more than $36 million into the county's coffers. Settling was the
right thing to do. Now it's the county's turn to do the right thing: abandon its
plan for a music venue at the county fairgrounds.

Thursday Education

Both Democratic candidates for governor, Treasurer Phil Angelides and Controller
Steve Westly, say education is their top priority. Both have offered credible
ideas for improving public schools. But both are dissembling on how they would
pay for what they're proposing, and each is lashing out -- with some accuracy --
at the other's lack of candor. The result is predictable and frustrating:
sound-bite charges that trivialize the discussion over education and give
short-shrift even to the candidates' own proposals.

Friday S.J. City Hall

Tuesday evening could open a new era in San Jose government -- and none too
soon. The city council is expected to set in motion two major initiatives that
will bring the workings of government more fully into the open and will invite a
broader range of community leaders to seek public office.

Residents from all over the city should fill the council chambers in support of
both ideas.

On mercurynews.com

Read complete text of these editorials and check out other issues we're
tracking. Visit the Opinion section.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              341 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 15, 2006 Saturday

Teen's suicide fuels dispute;
`MARTYR' LINKED TO IMMIGRATION DEBATE

BYLINE: Greg Risling, Associated Press

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 471 words


Hours after eighth-grader Anthony Soltero was called to the vice principal's
office, he took his stepfather's rifle and killed himself.

The suicide is becoming a flash point in the national immigration debate.

Anthony's family says he was threatened with jail for walking out of school to
protest proposed changes to immigration law. Some activists and bloggers are
portraying him as a martyr, the movement's first casualty.

But school officials dispute he was threatened with anything more than missing a
dance or field trip and say he wasn't even taking part in the immigration
protests -- he simply cut class.

Anthony, 14, ducked out of DeAnza Middle School on March 28, the same day
thousands of students across Southern California took part in walkouts and
protest marches. He killed himself at home two days later, leaving a suicide
note in which he blamed the run-in with the vice principal, a family lawyer
said.

The boy's mother, Louise Corales, said that over her objections, her son
protested against federal legislation that would make it a felony to be in the
U.S. illegally and would hasten construction of a wall along the Mexican border.
The boy and his mother were born in the United States, the family's lawyers
said.

``He was just fighting for his rights,'' Corales said at a Palm Sunday Mass.
``He would be proud that we are here now to honor him because he is a hero.''

A student march planned for today in downtown Los Angeles will be dedicated to
the boy.

``He was 14 years old and he was thinking he's going to jail,'' said Mitchell
Santos, 15, a Venice High School student and member of the Coalition of United
Students that is planning the march. ``That was a big pressure on him.''

On the Internet, several blogs have portrayed Anthony as a martyr -- the word
used by one civil rights activist aligned with his family. The headline on one
posting pronounced the suicide ``First Death From Walkouts.''

Officials with the Ontario-Montclair School District about 45 miles east of Los
Angeles expressed sympathy for Anthony's family but adamantly defended the vice
principal.

The school district said four students left school March 28. Superintendent
Sharon McGehee has said that interviews with students and faculty members show
the boy and the other students never marched with protesters. Two days later,
the vice principal told Anthony and three other students that for their truancy
they could choose whether to miss a field trip or year-end dance, McGehee said.

That was not what Anthony told his mother by phone moments before shooting
himself, or what he wrote in a suicide note, according to lawyers for the
family.

Attorney Samuel Paz asserted that interviews with the other students support the
mother's recollection: that Anthony was told he could be jailed for three years
and his parents could be fined.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              342 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Spanish-language news publisher deported

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 271 words


ST. LOUIS -- The publisher of a Spanish-language newspaper said Saturday she
will continue her work even though she has been deported after a five-year legal
battle over her immigration status.

Cecilia Velázquez was escorted into Mexico on Friday and will be barred from
re-entering the United States for 10 years, said Carl Rusnok, spokesman for the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

Velázquez, 36, is the publisher of Red Latina, meaning ``Latin network.'' She
also is president of Radio CuCui, a group that brings performers and
commentators to WEW-AM radio in St. Louis.

Velázquez said by phone Saturday from Mexico City that Red Latina will carry on
and she will continue as publisher, possibly from Cancún.

``We are the voice of my population. They need to know what's going on,'' she
said. ``I know we can do it. I have the Internet and my cell phone. I can make
all the meetings. We need to tell the people: `Don't be afraid. Don't be scared.
I'll be back.' ''

Her attorney, Raymond R. Bolourtchi, said her departure ``can only hurt and
damage the Hispanic community. She was their voice.''

Velázquez had entered the country on a visitor's visa, but Rusnok said she was
stopped in December 2000 in Houston by authorities who determined she was
``actually an intending immigrant.'' He said she was given two weeks to return
to Mexico, but remained in this country and was arrested in 2003 in St. Louis.

She lost a series of appeals but had hoped letters of support written by
Missouri politicians, including U.S. Sen. Jim Talent and U.S. Reps. William Lacy
Clay Jr. and Russ Carnahan, would stave off her deportation.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              343 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Job promises lure migrants across border from Mexico;
SOME EMPLOYERS WILL EVEN PAY SMUGGLERS

BYLINE: Julie Watson and Olga R. Rodriguez, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 664 words


When Pedro López Vázquez crossed illegally into the United States last week, he
was not heading north to look for a job. He already had one.

His future employer even paid $1,000 for a smuggler to help Vázquez make his way
from the central Mexican city of Puebla to Aspen, Colo.

``We're going to Colorado to work in carpentry because we have a friend who was
going to give us a job,'' Vázquez said.

Vázquez, 41, was interviewed along the Arizona border after being deported twice
by the U.S. Border Patrol. He said he would keep trying until he got to Aspen.

His story is not unusual. A growing number of U.S. employers and migrants are
tapping into an underground employment network that matches one with the other,
often before the migrants leave home.

``It continues to become clear who controls immigration: It's not governments,
but rather the market,'' said Jorge Santibáñez, director of the Tijuana-based
think tank Colegio de la Frontera Norte.

As debate over immigration heats up in the United States, more and more U.S.
companies in need of cheap labor are turning to undocumented employees to
recruit friends and relatives back home, and to smugglers to find job seekers.

Darcy Tromanhauser, of the non-profit law project Nebraska Appleseed, said
companies in need of workers rely on the networks to ``pass along the
information more effectively than billboards.''

``It started out more explicitly, where [meatpacking] companies used to have
buses to transport people to come up, and they would advertise directly in
Mexico,'' she said. ``Now I think that happens more informally.''

At the same time, it has become less risky for companies to recruit illegal
migrants. Since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, U.S. prosecution of employers who
hire such workers has dwindled to a trickle as the government puts its resources
toward national security.

The few cases that are prosecuted, however, highlight how lucrative recruiting
undocumented workers has become. In one case, a single smuggler allegedly earned
$900,000 over 15 months placing 6,000 migrants in jobs at Chinese restaurants
across the upper Midwest.

Shan Wei Yu, a 51-year-old American, was sentenced in December to nine years in
federal prison on charges involving the transportation of 40 of those migrants.
Investigations involving the others continue.

Rick Hilzendager, special agent for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Grand Forks, N.D., said Yu connected 6,000 migrants from Latin America with jobs
in Chinese restaurants in Illinois, Michigan, North Dakota, South Dakota and
Wisconsin.

Based in Yu's home in McKinney, Texas, the Great Texas Employment Agency placed
ads in Chinese-language newspapers in the Chicago area offering cheap labor from
Latin America, investigators said.

Yu sent a recruiter with Spanish interpreters to find migrants in Dallas willing
to be fry cooks and dishwashers, Hilzendager said. A team made up mostly of
illegal Chinese immigrants rented cars and drove them up.

Yu allegedly charged a $150 finder's fee for each migrant, while the drivers
earned $300 per worker. Restaurant owners deducted the $450 from workers'
first-month paychecks of $1,000.

``It was just so easy,'' Hilzendager said.

Nick Chase, assistant U.S. attorney in North Dakota, said Yu even offered to
replace workers free of charge if one left within two weeks of starting.

``It was a 2-for-1 special -- like a pizza,'' Chase said. ``Everything about it
was ugly.''

The employees, housed in cramped apartments provided by employers, worked
14-hour days and had little outside contact. The case broke open in August 2004
after two Mexican migrants working at the Buffet House in Grand Forks fled poor
conditions and were picked up along a highway by Border Patrol agents.

Many of the drivers involved in the scheme were deported to China. Two North
Dakota restaurant owners were sentenced to four months each for harboring
illegal immigrants.

Julie Watson reported from Mexico City. Olga R. Rodriguez reported from Sasabe.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              344 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Residency stamp is valid after green card expires

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 571 words


Q Where and how do I get a temporary proof of permanent resident status before
my appointment for fingerprinting and photographs?

My 10-year green card expires in mid-April. I applied for a renewal and filed
form I-90. I got a receipt, but I don't have a fingerprinting appointment yet.

I am unemployed and in the middle of a job search. I would like to be prepared
with my documents for potential interviews and offers. What I did not realize
was that without a valid green, no one could hire me.

Yuko TsukagoshiSunnyvale

A To get a Temporary Evidence of Lawful Permanent Residence, or I-551, stamped
on your passport, visit the Web site of the U.S. and Immigration Services and
make an Infopass appointment at https://infopass.uscis.gov/info_en.php.

An employer will ask to see proof of your immigration status only after you are
hired and asked to complete Form I-9, according to immigration attorney Carolyn
Choi of Mountain View.

The I-551 Permanent Residence Card is valid for employment authorization whether
the green card is expired or not, she said.

Q Is it possible to file two petitions -- one filed through an employer, a labor
certification form and form I-140, at the same time as a petition filed by
relative, form I-130?

Viswanathan EkambaramMountain View

A Yes, it is possible to have more than one immigrant visa petition pending,
including more than one I-140 petition or more than one I-130 petition, said
Anja Freudenthal, an immigration attorney in San Francisco.

An I-140 petition is filed by an employer on behalf of a foreign worker, she
said. For instance, there are some rare instances in which the foreign worker
can self-petition, Freudenthal said, such as an ``extraordinary ability'' worker
who also happens to be sponsored by a U.S. employer.

The I-130 petition is a family-based petition and requires the petitioning
relative to be a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident, she said, such as
a spouse, an adult child, a parent or a sibling.

You can be sponsored by several relatives, she said. Usually when the I-140 or
the I-130 petition is approved, there is an additional wait for the visa to
become available before one can apply for the green card, Freudenthal said.

Visa availability is public information and can be viewed on the State
Department Web site at http://travel.state.gov/visa/frvi/bulletin/
bulletin_1360.html. Visa bulletins are updated monthly.

Citizenship informational workshop: The USCIS has scheduled a workshop in
Cupertino called, ``Overview of Adjustment of Status.''

The workshop will be from 1 to 3 p.m. Tuesday at the Cupertino Senior Center,
21251 Stevens Creek Blvd. The session will be conducted in English, with Chinese
translation.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              345 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 16, 2006 Sunday

What to call immigrants without legal status;
`ALIENS' IN AMERICA BEAR OLD BURDEN OF SUSPICION, EXCLUSION

BYLINE: Geoffrey Nunberg

SECTION: PE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words


Back in 1920, the New Republic reported on an exercise in which students at a
New England college were asked to provide definitions of the word ``alien.''
Their answers were uniformly negative: ``a person who is hostile to this
country,'' ``a person on the opposite side,'' ``an enemy from a foreign land.''

Commenting on those responses three years later in his book ``Public Opinion,''
Walter Lippman remarked on how odd it was that an ``exact legal term'' should
have such powerful emotional meanings. But by then, ``alien'' had been colored
by decades of anti-immigrant sentiment, which reached its peak in the red scares
of the years after World War I.

``Fully 90 percent of communist and anarchist agitation is traceable to
aliens,'' said attorney general (and presidential hopeful) A. Mitchell Palmer in
1920, defending the raids that rounded up and deported 10,000 foreign-born
suspected radicals whom he described as ``aliens of misshapen caste of mind and
indecencies of character.'' Or, as the American Legion Weekly put it, aliens
``are not of our sort.''

That's a chronic feature of the language of immigration. The words refuse to be
confined to their legal and economic meanings; they swell with the associations
of fear and pride that the issue has always aroused for many Americans, as the
conflicts between our present anxieties and our own past experience as
immigrants give rise to parallel vocabularies. ``Alien'' and ``illegal,'' vs.
``guest worker'' and ``undocumented'' -- it's as each if side is reading from a
different dictionary.

With the immigration debate in full swing, ``alien'' is in the air again,
whether on talk radio or in the halls of Congress. True, ``alien'' no longer
conjures up images of wild-eyed, bomb-throwing anarchists. Not even the fiercest
of the ``send-'em-all-home'' crowd would deny that the vast majority of people
who enter the country illegally are seeking economic opportunity.

But ``alien'' still suggests strangeness and difference and people who are ``not
of our sort,'' a connotation that was strengthened when science-fiction writers
picked the word up in the 1930s to refer to extraterrestrial beings. (Some years
ago, the New York Times' A.M. Rosenthal said the word ``should be saved for
creatures who jump out of bellies in films.'')

A century ago, immigrants from Europe were called ``aliens'' and worse. But in
the modern media, the tens of thousands of Irish and Poles who are in the
country illegally are almost always called ``immigrants'' instead of ``aliens.''

And those who take a hard line on immigration almost never use ``aliens'' to
describe foreigners who are in the country legally -- on news broadcasts,
``illegal aliens'' outnumbers ``legal aliens'' by about 100 to 1. Legally
speaking, ``alien'' refers to any non-citizen, but in political debates it often
suggests ``brown people who snuck in,'' a way of denying undocumented arrivals
the label ``immigrant'' that most Americans associate with their forebears.

``Illegal aliens'' is the term of choice for immigration hard-liners like CNN's
Lou Dobbs and Rep. Tom Tancredo, R-Colo. Nowadays, though, many of the
mainstream media go with ``illegal immigrants.''

But ``illegal,'' too, has something more than a technical meaning. True,
dictionaries define the word simply as ``not according to law.'' But there are
disparaging connotations to the negative prefix in ``illegal'' (really just a
variant of the prefix ``in-''). ``Inhuman'' isn't the same as ``not human,'' and
you don't become irreligious simply by skipping church on Sundays. And you hear
the same condemnatory tone in words like ``insincere,'' ``inflexible'' and
``illegitimate.''

So it isn't surprising that ``illegal'' usually conveys strong disapproval. We
may talk about illegal drugs, but people rarely describe the unmodified Porsche
959 as an illegal car, even though it can't legally be driven in the United
States. ``Not legal'' is the term of choice.

Then, too, we don't usually describe lawbreakers as being ``illegal''
themselves. And it's only your immigration status that can earn you the honor of
being ``an illegal'' all by itself. That use of ``illegal'' as a noun actually
goes back a long ways. The British coined it in the 1930s to describe Jews who
entered Palestine without official permission, and it has been used ever since
as a way of reducing individuals to their infractions.

Supporters of new immigrants' rights are also aware of the power of language,
and they've sometimes used it to elide the awkward facts of how a great many of
those immigrants came here. ``Guest worker'' has a warmly hospitable sound
that's absent from the German word Gastarbeiterit was based on -- in German,
Gastcan mean simply visitor.

And those who support giving legal status to those who entered the country
illegally often use ``immigrant'' without qualification, in the hope that the
word will evoke the faces in the sepia photographs of our parents and
grandparents in our family albums.

In the end, ``undocumented'' may be the closest we can come to a neutral
description of the people whose status we're arguing over. That word was
introduced in the 1970s as a rendering of the French sans-papiers,or ``person
without papers,'' which is used in several other nations to refer to immigrants
who have no legal status -- the Spanish-speakers who addressed the recent
rallies across the country often used the equivalent sin papeles.

True, ``undocumented'' tends to make a difference in legality sound like a
merely bureaucratic distinction -- it focuses on the government's records rather
than the immigrants themselves. (That's why the INS ultimately decided to stop
using the label, arguing that visitors who overstay their visas aren't
undocumented in the strict sense of the term.)

But like sans-papiers,the label ``undocumented'' does suggest the experience of
having to live without any official status in the shadow of a modern state.
That's a reality that phrases like ``illegal alien'' tend to obscure.

For Americans, immigration issues always evoke vivid memories and painful
choices. That's why we're tempted to use words that distance us from the human
narratives of immigration.

Yet language can't keep those realities wholly at bay. As the Swiss writer Max
Frisch wrote in 1965 about the European experience with immigration, ``We called
for a labor force, but it was human beings that came.''

GEOFFREY NUNBERG is a professor at the School of Information at the University
of California-Berkeley and author of the forthcoming ``Talking Right: How
Conservatives Turned Liberalism into a Latte-Drinking, Sushi-Eating,
Volvo-Driving, Left-Wing Freak Show.'' This article is a longer version of an
essay that aired on NPR's ``Fresh Air.''

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              346 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

Immigration allies splinter;
ACTIVISTS IN THE VALLEY AND ACROSS THE COUNTRY CLASH ON TACTICS FOR MAY 1
RALLIES

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words


After organizing one of the largest public protests in Silicon Valley history,
local leaders of a new immigrant-rights movement were in disagreement Wednesday
on how to participate in a massive nationwide demonstration scheduled for May 1.

Some pressed for a dramatic work stoppage and student walkouts. Others argued
for sticking to a festive march and rally featuring families and American flags.

``The discussions have been passionate on each side,'' said Sylvia Ruiz, a
spokeswoman for the San Jose Coalition for Immigrant Rights. ``We ended up
walking a fine line.''

After five formal meetings, unlimited minutes on cellular phones and countless
e-mail exchanges, the loose-knit group leaned toward playing it safe. The
coalition will stage another march from the East Side to downtown San Jose, but
stopped short of publicly endorsing the radical tactics. The coalition instead
will silently condone walkouts from jobs and schools.

The call for stronger tactics has splintered the new movement's leaders across
the country.

To some, the front-page demonstrations of the past few weeks succeeded by
building public and political support without putting the jobs of immigrants at
risk. But other coalition members argued for ``a day without an immigrant''
walkouts from jobs and classrooms. They believe stronger tactics would drive
home an economic point -- that American farms, construction sites, restaurants,
hotels, office buildings rely heavily on immigrant labor today and will more so
in the future.

In San Jose, while both sides agreed on staging a march and rally May 1, Ruiz
said, there wasn't enough support for a boycott to formally endorse one.

If the split suppresses participation across the country, even boycott backers
acknowledge their movement will lose momentum.

``Our credibility as a community is on the line,'' said Armando Navarro,
coordinator of the National Alliance for Human Rights, a Southern California
organization pushing the boycott. ``We've shown our power politically, but if we
can't show it economically we are going to lose it.''

Some organizers hope to see turnout so large that it will protect participants
from retribution.

``If immigrants continue demonstrating in large numbers, are they going to fire
all of them?'' said Julita Rincon, 21, an illegal immigrant and University of
Houston student who leads a student activist organization.

Sporadic but mostly mild criticism of the boycott began soon after organizers
announced it in early March. But skepticism has been intensifying and Los
Angeles Cardinal Roger Mahony, an outspoken supporter of illegal immigrants,
discouraged it during Easter Mass.

``Go to work. Go to school,'' Mahony said. ``And then join thousands of us at a
major rally afterward.''

That divide widened on Wednesday, when immigrant coalitions in Los Angeles and
Washington, D.C., voiced opposition to the boycott during press conferences, and
announced plans for alternate May 1 activities.

Boycott opponents argue that skipping work and school could sour mainstream
support and even get thousands of immigrants fired.

``If they lost their jobs, there would be nothing we could do,'' said Ana Maria
Archila, executive director of the Latin American Integration Center. Her New
York City group plans alternative May 1 activities, such as persuading
businesses to close for 30 minutes in honor of immigrants.

Leaders of the Service Employees International Union, which has gotten thousands
to rallies and helped with crowd control, said they can't endorse a boycott
because of collective bargaining agreements. And some feel it's premature,
anyway.

Before leaving town two weeks ago, the Senate nearly voted on immigration
legislation that included a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, noted
Jaime Contreras, a union spokesman and chairman of an influential immigration
group in Washington, D.C.

``You are using the last weapon in your arsenal now?'' Contreras asked. If
senators move toward more punitive legislation, ``then what are you going to
do?''

Boycott supporters say they are working to mend divisions. Still, strains are
showing.

In Los Angeles, the March 25th Coalition -- named for the day 500,000 people
rallied there -- sent a mass e-mail clarifying who was authorized to speak for
the group after a few loosely affiliated organizations questioned the boycott.

San Jose's coalition has scheduled a news conference for 10:30 a.m. Friday in
front of the federal building downtown. Several representatives from among 30 or
so advocacy, labor and religious organizations forming the immigrant-rights
coalition are expected to speak.

``Look, we're not actually calling for a boycott,'' Ruiz said, ``but we
understand that individuals and individual groups will be making that choice on
their own.''

The Associated Press contributed to this report. Contact Joe Rodriguez at (408)
920-5767 or jrodriguez@mercurynews. com.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              347 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 22, 2006 Saturday

Raids tear immigrant families apart;
MOMS LEFT IN U.S. WITH NO CASH, NO JOBS

BYLINE: Sam Quinones, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: B; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words


Paola Ordaz is feeling lost in America.

Her husband, Alfredo Garcia, was arrested Wednesday with 28 co-workers during a
raid at a Riverside-area factory run by IFCO Systems North America, where he
made wooden pallets.

He and his brother, Alejandro Garcia, were immediately deported to Mexico as a
result of the federal investigation into IFCO's alleged hiring of illegal
immigrants. They were among 1,187 workers taken into custody this week in a
nationwide crackdown on the Dutch company, the largest manufacturer of wooden
pallets in the United States.

He's now in Tijuana, and has called her twice, but is afraid to cross the border
illegally again, for fear of landing in prison, she said.

Ordaz, 29, is left to care for three U.S.-born children under the age of 6, with
no job, no money -- not even enough for bus fare to rejoin her husband in
Tijuana.

The $650 rent for their apartment is due May 1.

``I'm hoping to find a job now so I can support my children,'' said Ordaz, who
quit school at age 10 to become a tomato picker.

She has her husband's car, but has never learned to drive it, and because of
that hasn't explored much of the area west of Riverside, where she's lived for
the last seven years.

She's not entirely alone. Her sister-in-law, Maria Jarquin, who is married to
Alejandro Garcia, lives nearby. But she, too, is stranded.

She must now support her 6-year-old daughter and 3-year-old son -- both U.S.
citizens -- at least until she can leave for Mexico when the school year ends.

Until Wednesday, the immigration debate raged as mostly background noise for the
women, who had comfortably inhabited the world of undocumented-immigrant
homemakers raising children in the United States. Neither they nor their
husbands had ever faced deportation before.

Southern California was an escape from the poverty in the southern Mexico state
of Oaxaca. Their husbands had spent several years as itinerant tomato pickers in
northwest Mexico before coming to the United States to work. At the factory,
they made $350 a week.

``We're all working, doing the hardest jobs,'' said Jarquin. ``The immigrants do
more work than those who have papers.''

But immigration authorities said families like these made conscious choices to
break the law.

``The position of the government is that families make the decision to come here
and live illegally,'' said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.

Just because they had children here ``doesn't convey that status on their
parents,'' she added. ``Those children are free to return with their parents to
a home country.''

She also said that everyone arrested has the right to have a formal immigration
hearing, although doing so might make it more difficult down the road to return
to the United States.

``This is not a new situation,'' she said. ``Families have to make their own
decisions about how they will proceed.''

At IFCO's Riverside-area facility, company officials declined to comment on the
raid or investigation, saying only that they had hired temporary workers from an
employment agency to replace the deported immigrants.

Federal investigators claim IFCO not only hired illegal immigrants but
reimbursed them for buying illegal documents and coached them in avoiding
detection.

Ordaz said she knew nothing of this; she had no idea whether the allegations
were true. Her life revolved around her apartment and her children, she said.

The Garcia brothers, according to their wives, had become reliable workers at
the plant.

Alfredo had worked there eight years, after arriving illegally from their
hometown of Ejutla, Oaxaca, Ordaz said.

Over the years, he was joined at the job by Alejandro, another brother, a
sister, a cousin and an uncle, she said.

All were deported after Wednesday's raid, she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              348 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

Celebrities aren't saying much about immigration

BYLINE: Darragh Johnson, Washington Post

LENGTH: 873 words


Here's how it goes, pretty much: Controversy hits. Celebrities chime in.

You've got your Kanyes trash-talking Bush after Katrina, and your Martin Sheens
railing against the war in Iraq. You've got Susan Sarandons and Tim Robbinses
agitating for Haitian refugees at the Academy Awards, and your Marlon Brandos
no-showing for his ``Godfather'' Oscar to protest treatment of American Indians.
You've got Hanoi Jane.

Now the immigration debate is hot. But the celebrity squawk is, well, not.

Where are the celebrities?

OK, earlier this month, Salma Hayek became the first Big Name to Speak Out. She
told the New York Daily News:

``As a human being, I find this situation intolerable. As an immigrant, I find
it offensive. And as an American citizen, I find it disheartening. The work that
these immigrants do directly affects the health of the U.S. economy.'' She
closed her production company two weeks ago ``in solidarity with the
immigrants'' and will close it again May 1, ``in observance of the protests.''

Eva Longoria, who's traveling the country promoting her new movie, ``The
Sentinel,'' has been speaking -- carefully -- about the debate:

``We're a land of immigrants, and nobody is from here,'' she told the Houston
Chronicle. ``I do understand the economic value of illegal workers. If you
deport all the Mexicans at once, there'd be a serious dent to our society and
economic structure,'' she said, on the one hand. But then there was her other
hand: ``. . . I understand the need for stricter borders because of bigger
issues like terrorism. So, I don't think our administration can afford for this
to end badly.'' (Maybe she's an adviser to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, whose
statements sound similar.)

And when Daddy Yankee, the Puerto Rican pop star, performed with Snoop Dogg last
month in front of 18,000 fans in Los Angeles, he wore onstage his ``ALTO A LA HR
4437'' T-shirt -- a cry to Stop House Resolution 4437, the bill that would make
it criminal to help illegal immigrants, make it a felony (rather than a civil
infraction) for them to be here and add more walls along the Mexican-American
border.

Still, many famous lips have remained zipped. It's not that Latino entertainers
are not interested in the subject, their publicists said. What they are is:
unavailable in Maui (Carlos Santana), or mid-divorce (director Robert
Rodriguez), or ``so busy . . . her mind is on other things'' (Lynda Carter), or
``just busy doing other things and isn't paying too much attention'' (Jimmy
Smits).

``Nobody is speaking out on their behalf, including myself,'' says Esai Morales
of ``NYPD Blue,'' ``and I feel guilty.''

But the only reason he's now talking is: ``You called to ask me a question.''
But, he adds quickly, ``I've been actively supporting immigrants.'' He explains:
``It's almost like . . . I'm constantly speaking out on Latino issues . . . and
I get a little tired of hearing myself talk.''

And others spoke up, once we called.

Susan Sarandon: ``It's very easy to blame immigrants for the disastrous state of
our economy, the failure of the health care system, the educational crisis, the
disappearing middle class and just about every ill that makes this country
unwelcoming to the immigrants. That is a smoke screen to distract us from the
real sources of these problems. I stand with the founders of this country and
the sentiment written on the Statue of Liberty.''

Ron Silver: ``I think President Bush, on this issue, is on the right side of
history, and the Republicans should think long and hard about which side they're
on.''

Elizabeth Avellan (production partner and soon-to-be-ex-wife of filmmaker Robert
Rodriguez): ``I'm very proud of Bush for standing up. . . . He's saying, `You
guys are being irrational' -- and racist, if you ask my opinion. . . . He's
standing up and saying, `We have to find a good solution for these people.' ''

Not that immigration is easy. It's one thing to come out in favor of eradicating
breast cancer or raising money for childhood leukemia -- who could argue with
that? Immigration is a whole lot mushier. ``It's early, it's complicated and
it's political,'' says celeb expert Joe Dolce, editor in chief of Star, ``and
stars don't need to have political viewpoint.''

And in all likelihood, many celebs employ people who are undocumented, a fact
that encourages the silence: ``You'd be hard-pressed to find a celebrity in
Hollywood who has a legal cleaning woman [or] gardener, pool boy, nanny,'' says
Janice Min, Us Weekly editor in chief.

The celebrity silence, though, is a far cry from the courageous voices that
decried the Vietnam War and rallied support for the civil rights movement --
people like Ossie Davis and Harry Belafonte, whose careers suffered. People like
Dick Gregory and Eartha Kitt, who found themselves on Nixon's infamous enemies
list.

At the same time, the groundswell of immigrant rights marches has surprised not
only mainstream America, but the politically minded inside Hollywood, too.

``It really is like spontaneous combustion,'' noted Ralph G. Neas, president of
Washington-based People for the American Way. ``Everything has been organized
virtually from the ground up, and I think everybody, including the celebrities,
is just catching up with this movement.''

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              349 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 24, 2006 Monday

Bay Area rally comes as prelude to planned nationwide protest on May 1;
THOUSANDS OPPOSE IMMIGRATION BILL THEY SAY WOULD TEAR FAMILIES APART

BYLINE: Mike Zapler, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 494 words


In another visible display of the potency of the immigration debate, thousands
of protesters marched through the streets of San Francisco on Sunday demanding
that Congress abandon reform proposals they said would ``tear families apart.''

The demonstration, one in a series in the Bay Area in recent weeks, was aimed
partly to keep pressure on Congress as it reconvenes today after a two-week
break. An immigration reform bill collapsed in the Senate earlier this month,
but lawmakers say they plan to take up the issue again in the coming weeks.

Demonstrators gathered at noon at San Francisco's Dolores Park in the heavily
Latino Mission District. For two hours they chanted for justice, many with their
children waving American flags, and then marched two miles to the Federal
Building near San Francisco City Hall.

``These rallies prove the people have woken up,'' said Juan Velasquez, a
44-year-old truck driver, who drove from Vallejo with his wife to attend the
demonstration. ``This country was built by immigrants. We need to make sure
Congress gets the message.''

The rally in San Francisco was a prelude to a planned nationwide protest May 1.

Organizers have called for a work stoppage and student boycott -- sparking
disagreement over whether leaving restaurants and other work sites short-staffed
could end up hurting the movement.

Organizers of the Sunday march pegged the turnout at about 10,000 people. Police
declined to provide their own estimate, but the number was clearly well into the
thousands. Some protesters waved signs reading ``Don't Deport My Family'' and
``Today We March, Tomorrow We Vote.''

Other speakers took aim at specific reform ideas, including one that would
require illegal immigrants who have been in the country more than two years, but
less than five years, to leave and apply for a ``green card.''

Under the same proposal, illegal immigrants who have been in the country less
than two years would not be eligible for citizenship and would be required to
return to their home countries.

``Our civil and human rights are under attack, but we're fighting back,'' one
organizer told cheering protesters.

Many demonstrators said the immigration debate hits close to home.

``I have family members and neighbors who could be deported,'' said Roberto
Hernandez, a 49-year-old artist in San Francisco.

``These are people who do the jobs no one else wants to do.''

Adding a real-life component to the debate, the federal government last week
took 1,187 illegal immigrants into custody in a nationwide workplace crackdown
on the country's largest producer of wooden pallets. Many workers were
immediately deported, forcing them to leave their families behind.

Religious leaders, including San Francisco Archbishop George H. Niederauer,
joined the protesters to call for ``just immigration reform.''

They spoke nearby at Mission Dolores Church, a city landmark more than 2
centuries old.

Contact Mike Zapler at (408) 920-5505 or mzapler@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              350 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday

Bay Area man facing sex tourism charges

BYLINE: Bay City News Service

LENGTH: 498 words


A 49-year-old Bay Area man is facing up to 30 years in prison following a grand
jury indictment on sex tourism charges, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
reported today.

Michael John Koklich, a.k.a. Michael Light, arrived in the United States from
Cambodia this morning, accompanied by ICE agents. He faces charges of engaging
in illicit sexual conduct in foreign places. Koklich is one of the first
residents of Northern California prosecuted on child sex tourism charges under
the provisions of the Protect Act, signed into law three years ago this week.

The act strengthened federal laws against predatory crimes involving children
outside the United States by adding new crimes, increasing sentences and
modifying the burden of proof requirements for federal prosecutors to bring
charges, according to immigration enforcement officials.

``Some pedophiles mistakenly believe they can escape detection and prosecution
by committing child sex crimes overseas,'' said Charles DeMore, special agent in
charge of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office of investigations in
San Francisco.

Investigators tipped off by the non-governmental organization Action Pour Les
Enfants believe Koklich began to travel regularly to Cambodia to engage in
sexual relations with two girls, aged 11 and 13, in January, paying them between
$10 and $20 for each encounter and then detailing his activity in a diary,
according to the U.S. attorney's office.

U.S. and Cambodian authorities found the diary, along with a variety of sexual
paraphernalia and newspaper articles about Americans having sex with Cambodian
minors, at Koklich's two Phnom Penh residences, immigration enforcement
officials reported.

Koklich allegedly told authorities he spends three to four months a year in
California, often near Santa Rosa, living in a recreational vehicle and selling
jewelry and other goods he buys in Cambodia at flea markets to finance his trips
to Southeast Asia.

Cambodian National Police in Phnom Penh arrested Koklich on Feb. 17 following a
chase that reportedly included Koklich crashing his motorcycle into a police
barricade, injuring a police officer.

Koklich was expelled from Cambodia this week, making possible his return to the
United States, according to immigration enforcement officials.

His arrival in the United States is the result of a three-month multi-agency
investigation that brought together the resources of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement special agents in San Francisco and Bangkok, the U.S. Department of
State's Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the Cambodian National Police.

A two-count indictment of engaging in illicit sexual conduct in foreign places
was handed down by a San Francisco federal grand jury on March 28.

Koklich is scheduled to appear in federal court before Magistrate Judge James
Larson on Thursday.

Copyright © 2006 by Bay City News, Inc. -- republication, re-transmission or
reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              351 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Spanish `Star-Spangled Banner' sparks local debate;
`NUESTRO HIMNO' SET TO DEBUT THIS AFTERNOON

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

LENGTH: 664 words


The ``Star-Spangled Banner'' en Espanol, the work of a British New York City
record producer, is expected to hit the radio airwaves today, and with it comes
the latest controversy over the hottest public debate in recent memory, about
immigrants and assimilation.

British-born producer Adam Kidron, president of Urban Box Office in New York
City, told the Associated Press that he wanted to pay homage to the millions of
immigrants in the United States who have marched in large scale protest in
recent months. The focus of the marches, including a record turnout early this
month in downtown San Jose, is legalization for illegal immigrants.

Spanish radio stations across the country are set to begin playing ``Nuestro
Himno,''- Our Anthem -- this afternoon. It features Latino pop stars Carlos
Ponce, Gloria Trevi, the group Aventura and Haitian-American artist Wyclef Jean.

In the Spanish ``Star-Spangled Banner,'' the anthem's first line -- ``Oh say,
can you see, By the dawn's early light,'' is translated: ``Amenece, lo veis, A
la luz de la aurora,

Talk radio in the Bay Area and elsewhere have devoted a lot of time on the
subject, inflaming the recent national debate on immigration reform. Opponents
of amnesty, the path to citizenship that illegal immigrants are calling for,
denounced Kidron.

``It's just one more evidence that we have as a result of massive immigration,
we've created these social divisions that really threaten the unity of this
country,'' said Ira Mehlman, a Los Angeles spokesman for the Federation for
American Immigration Reform, a national group that advocates for strict limits
to immigration.

``We're one nation, one flag,'' he said, ``we should have one national anthem in
one language.''

Arnoldo Garcia, coordinator at the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee
Rights in Oakland, said he has not heard ``Nuestro Himno,'' but is familiar with
the debate that it spurred.

``I think it's a commendable gesture,'' said Garcia, a musician who plays guitar
and charango. ``We have always said that civil rights, justice, equality, they
mean the same thing in any language. So the national anthem should mean the same
thing.''

Garcia said Kidron's effort ``highlights the important multicultural nature of
our country.''

Martha Campos, an immigrant from Mexico who works as a program director at
Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a San Jose group, said the
translation may help many new immigrants ``to fully understand the meaning of
the anthem.''

Campos said news about ``Nuestro Himno'' was a surprise to her, but if it led to
greater understanding, ``it's an opportunity to create a bridge.''

Maria Marroquin, also an immigrant from Mexico who runs a day laborer center in
Mountain View, has been rehearsing ``God Bless America'' -- in English -- for
the past two weeks. She and a group of immigrants will sing the song during a
rally on May 1 in Mountain View.

Like Campos, Marroquin said the news of the national anthem's translation into
Spanish was a surprise.

``I've mixed feelings,'' she said. ``It's a little strange.''

Marroquin said she can understand the uproar that it has created among ``people
who believe it should only be sung in English.''

``This crosses the line,'' said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, D.C., a national group that is lobbying
for tighter immigration controls.

``This really represents a rejection of the basic deal that as immigrants they
can become Americans but they have to buy into America,'' Krikorian said. ``Not
just abstract principles, history and symbols of the country. That means the
`Star-Spangled Banner.' In English.''

The song will be featured on a new album, ``Somos Americanos,'' We Are
Americans, that will be sold for $10. One dollar will benefit the National
Capital Immigration Coalition, a Washington, D.C. group.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              352 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             April 30, 2006 Sunday

Immigration focus needs to be practical rather than idealistic

BYLINE: José Enrique Idler

SECTION: PE; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 807 words


It's not about the Latino vote or civil rights, but growth and competitiveness.

The immigration rallies across America showed that restrictionists aren't the
only ones with strong views. But beyond podium pounding, compelling arguments
are also necessary. As Congress goes back to the task of crafting an immigration
bill, it's crucial to focus on the right reasons for creating a guest-worker
program and legalizing 12 million illegal immigrants.

The case for immigration doesn't have to do as much with the Latino vote or
civil rights. It should center instead on America's growth, competitiveness and
dynamism.

This month's rallies of thousands of people in many major cities raised the
importance of the Latino vote. But 40 percent of Latinos are foreign-born; and
since many of them aren't citizens, they can't vote. And those who can vote are
likely to care mostly about the same things that other Americans care about. The
2004 National Survey of Latinos, conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center and the
Kaiser Family Foundation, found that the top issues for Latino voters included
education, the economy and health care -- similar to many other Americans.

Just as important is that Latinos have a variety of views, backgrounds and
opinions. When it comes to illegal migrants, for instance, Latinos show
significant differences. Another Pew Hispanic Survey found that although there's
an overall positive perception about immigrants, different generations have
different perceptions about undocumented workers. More foreign-born Latinos than
American-born ones believe that illegal immigrants should be allowed to become
citizens.

So rallies might give the impression that Latinos have a loud, unique and common
voice. The group, however, is too broad and diverse to speak of common views or
trends that will translate coherently into votes.

Then there are those who view immigration, and legalizing undocumented workers,
as a matter of civil rights. In the immigrant-rights rally in Alabama, the Rev.
Lawton Higgs -- a United Methodist minister and activist -- reportedly said that
```we've got to get back in touch with the civil rights movement, because that's
what this is about.'' Similarly, when talking at one of the rallies, Sen. Edward
Kennedy, D-Mass., linked the immigration fight to the civil rights movement.

The problem, however, is that, say, equal protection rights -- from the
Fourteenth Amendment -- have a constitutional origin. Illegal immigrants, as
human beings, are certainly entitled to human rights. But illegal residents are
not technically within the jurisdiction of the American political community and
are thus not entitled to the protection of certain rights that are, by
constitutional design, directed to people within the jurisdiction.

To come under the purview of constitutional rights, illegal immigrants would
first have to become recognized members of the political community. So the
questions are whether and why they should be able to become members; not whether
they have the same political rights as members.

Moreover, those reverting to the 1960s civil rights movement are looking to the
past, not the future -- which is where immigration belongs.

According to forecasts based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the
domestic labor-force must expand over the next few years in order for the United
States to maintain at least 3 percent annual growth in its GDP. Since not enough
people are being born to sustain this expansion, there's then a demographic
challenge. The natural candidates to fill the gap are immigrants.

Additionally, guest-workers and immigrants are good for the economy. With a low
4.7 percent unemployment rate, current workers, including illegal migrants, have
been clearly absorbed by the labor market. And guest-workers who work for lower
wages keep costs down, passing the benefit to consumers. Immigration isn't all
blissful: Unlike commodities, newcomers bring cultures and hence potential
complications, which is partly why assimilation and accommodation are essential.
On the whole, however, immigrants bring many benefits.

Although restrictions are necessary and punishment is needed for those who have
broken the law, the case for welcoming new guest-workers and regularizing the
status of illegal immigrants is compelling. It has to do with growth and
competitiveness.

The debate on immigration reform shouldn't be about ethnic identity, voting
blocs or entitlements. We'd be far better off by turning to hard work,
opportunity and prosperity. That's what immigration has brought to America and
that's what it can still contribute by setting the sight on the future.

JOSÉ ENRIQUE IDLER is an NRI fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He
just completed a book on Hispanic identity and ethno-racial classification
policies. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              353 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

Thousands rally in Oakland; preparations under way throughout Bay Area

BYLINE: Rodney Foo, Lisa Fernandez, Mary Anne Ostrom and Kimra McPherson,
Mercury News

LENGTH: 946 words


Thousands of immigrants and their supporters flocked to Oakland this morning,
waving American flags and marching toward the city's federal building to mark a
day of national immigrant protest.

A procession of people and cars more than 30 city blocks long and growing moved
along International Boulevard, where most stores had closed out of solidarity
with the ``A Day Without Immigrants'' boycott. Many of the protesters wore white
shirts and sang while cars headed southbound on the other side of the road
beeped their horns.

``I'm here today because I want a green card,'' said Jessie E., a construction
worker who has been in the country for 13 years. He declined to give his last
name but said he lives in Union City with his wife and daughter.

``I pay taxes, rent, bills,'' he said. ``I need opportunity for my life.''

Other Bay Area protests are planned for San Jose, San Francisco, Berkeley,
Mountain View, Santa Cruz and Watsonville. Organizers of similar events
nationally urged immigrants to boycott work, school and shopping to protest
against legislation that would make it a felony to be in the country illegally.

Before noon, the Mi Pueblo shopping center at the corner of Story and King roads
in San Jose, the departure point for the 3 p.m. rally and 4 p.m. march, was
bustling with hundreds of people wearing white T-shirts and carrying American
and Mexican flags. Juvenal Chavez, the owner of the shopping center's namesake
store and seven other Mi Pueblo markets in the area, said he shut the stores for
the day out of respect for his employees and customers.

``This is the moment of truth,'' Chavez said. ``We look at the mirror and we see
who we are: We are the community.''

In a shopping center across the street, more people spent the morning preparing
for the march. One of them was Irving Gijon, a 17-year-old Overfelt High School
student, who cut class to participate in the march. He said he finished all his
Monday school work over the weekend and on Friday.

``I wanted to protest to try to help my parents, my family -- half of my family
are immigrants and I wouldn't want people to be judging them like they are
criminals,'' he said.

At the nearby Tropicana shopping center, most of the stores appeared to be
closed. Some of them had signs in Spanish and English indicating they were
supporting the protest. Outside the Home Depot on Blossom Hill Road, just seven
immigrant day workers were looking for jobs this morning. As many as 80 people
sometimes look for work there, the men said.

``Not too much people today,'' said Jose, 45, who was wearing a black cap with
white stitching that read ``San Jose.'' He declined to give his last name.

Santiago Galvan, a permanent resident who is applying for citizenship, took his
two daughters, ages 5 and 7, out of Mount Pleasant Elementary School because he
feels it is important to support immigrants.

``If they don't want to give us papers, OK,'' said the 34-year-old gardener.
``If they don't want to give us drivers licenses, OK. But treat us all right.
We're not terrorists.''

Asked if he plans to spend any money today, he replied: ``Not a penny.''

But at the Plaza de San Jose shopping center, Jesse and Annette Velasquez came
out of the Target store with their 18-month-old son, Matthew, after buying $100
in housewares.

Annette Velasquez said she sympathizes with the immigrants, but thinks they are
making their point in the wrong way.

``The ones who are boycotting work today should be thankful they are in the
United States and are working,'' she said. ``To me, it is a waste of time.''

Some who support the cause went to work today anyway. Martha, who asked that her
last name not be used, is a preschool teacher in Fremont who reported to work
even though she fervently opposes making illegal immigrants felons in this
country. An immigrant from Durango, Mexico herself, Martha said she showed up to
work because she has a ``sense of responsibility to the kids'' who need her. She
has her own two children, 7 and 9, who attend public school and she appreciates
that their teachers showed up Monday, too.

Protests in previous weeks had been marked by students walking out of school,
but neither the San Jose Unified School District nor the East Side Union High
School District reported notable absences early in the school day.

``Hopefully we're going to have our students in class and our employees at the
work site,'' said Ric Abeyta, assistant superintendent of student services for
East Side Union High School District. ``That's what we're expecting.''

San Jose Unified School District spokeswoman Karen Fuqua didn't yet have student
attendance figures this morning but said there were fewer employees absent than
on an average Monday. She said several schools are planning lunchtime rallies
and open mic sessions to give students a chance to talk about immigration
without leaving campus.

``We have a lot of student leaders that have really stepped up to the plate and
encouraged their classmates to stay in school,'' Fuqua said.

Sylvia Gonzalez, 29, of San Jose plans to be at Monday's rally.

She was born in Jalisco, Mexico and her family crossed the border into
California illegally when she was 8 months old. She's lived almost her entire
life in the South Bay, and ``feels terrible every day'' about her status.
Without the proper documentation, she can't get a driver's license, enter
21-and-over clubs because she doesn't have a legitimate ID, and doesn't even
want to apply for college loans or scholarships.

``I'm going to the march because I'm illegal and my mom is illegal and my
brother is illegal,'' she said. ``And I have 16 aunts and uncles in Mexico that
I want to come here legally and help.''

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              354 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

Border debate evokes `unjust' U.S. invasion;
MEXICAN MIGRATION HYPED AS RECONQUEST

BYLINE: John Rice, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 428 words


More than 1 million migrants flood into the United States each year across a
border cutting straight through what once was Mexican territory, a touch of
history that haunts the immigration debate 158 years after the land changed
hands.

The territory north of today's 1,952-mile border -- half of Mexico at the time
-- was ripped away in 1848 after a U.S. invasion that ended with the capture of
``the halls of Montezuma,'' Mexico City.

Ulysses S. Grant, who took part, called the invasion ``the most unjust war ever
waged by a stronger against a weaker nation.''

The loss changed Mexico's destiny and still tears at the country's heart.
Primary school textbooks harp on it. Intellectuals often refer to it. Museums
are dedicated to it.

In the United States, some anti-immigration activists see migrants as a threat
to U.S. land and culture, part of a Spanish-speaking invasion that will reclaim
the American Southwest.

Their concern is fed by occasional Mexican references to the booming immigrant
population as a reconquista, or re-conquest, and by the Mexican government's
efforts to reinforce the migrants' ties to their homeland.

When hundreds of thousands of mainly Latino marchers turned out for a
pro-immigrant demonstration in Los Angeles in March, Mexican TV reporter Alberto
Tinoco sounded almost giddy.

``With all due respect to Uncle Sam, this shows that Los Angeles has never
stopped being ours,'' Tinoco said on the Televisa network's nightly newscast.

Prominent Mexican writers Elena Poniatowska and Carlos Fuentes have spoken
sometimes of a reconquista. Poniatowska says Mexicans are recovering their lost
lands ``through migratory tactics.'' Fuentes portrays it as a powerful northward
thrust of the Spanish language that will enrich both nations.

It may not be on the minds of job-seeking migrants, but the memory of the
Mexican-American war ``is a very important issue in the bilateral relationship.
And it's always kind of floating around in the background . . . at the
diplomatic levels,'' said Ana Maria Salazar, a former U.S. deputy assistant
secretary of defense who now works as a political analyst in Mexico.

But ``re-conquest'' may be misleading. Before the war, most people in the
Mexican territory north of the current border, from California to Texas, were
Indians. They spoke little Spanish and paid little allegiance to Mexico. Only a
few thousand Spaniards and Mexicans were living in the area when the United
States took the 525,000 square miles under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
decades later, paying $18.25 million in cash and assumed debts.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              355 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Sending a message on immigration

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 416 words


While thousands of immigrant-rights supporters took off work Monday to join the
protest march, many others clocked in because they needed the paycheck or wanted
to show their importance in another way: loyalty to their bosses, customers or
co-workers.

Martha, who came to the United states 10 years ago from Durango, Mexico, and who
asked that her last name not be used, reported to her job as a preschool teacher
in Fremont, even though she fervently opposes the bill that would make illegal
immigrants felons.

She said she has a ``sense of responsibility to the kids'' who need her. She has
two children in school herself and wouldn't appreciate it if their teachers'
went out on strike, leaving her without anyone to watch her 7- and 9-year-old.

``I think there are two lines of thought on this,'' said Safaa Ibrahim, 31,
executive director of the Council on American Islamic Relations in Santa Clara,
which sent two representatives to the San Francisco rally. ``Don't show up for
work and show the impact that has, or you should protest in a more constructive
way, by showing your work ethic, that you're responsible and a contributor.''

There is no wrong or right answer to that philosophical quandary, said Ibrahim,
who noted, ``I feel odd being here at work today, but I had two important
meetings that I just couldn't reschedule.''

Jeff Starbeck, owner of two popular Sonoma Chicken Coop restaurants -- San Jose
and Campbell -- tried to be helpful to his predominantly Mexican-born staff --
roughly 140 employees -- by asking how they wanted to handle the rally. He
closed his downtown San Jose location when his workers chose to march.

Sympathetic to their cause, and noting he loves his staff ``to death,'' Starbeck
estimated the closing would cost him about $10,000 in lost business. ``I tried
to see if they could just work from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.,'' said Starbeck, ``but
they said, `You don't understand. It's an all-day deal.' ''

Meanwhile, the 45 employees at his Campbell location preferred to work, and
Starbeck kept the doors open.

Beto Hernandez, 27, who immigrated from Queretiro, Mexico, in 1997, was one of
those employees who worked. He said he could still support the immigrant-rights
movement in other ways, such as wearing a symbolic white shirt. His need for a
paycheck was personal and important.

``I have to support my niece,'' Hernandez said. ``If I take some days off now, I
may need them in the future.''

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              356 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

`Nuestro Himno' honors U.S. national anthem

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 353 words


During the 75 years that it's officially been the national anthem, ``The
Star-Spangled Banner'' has been butchered more often than hogs at a sausage
plant.

We're not just talking about Roseanne Barr's deliberate dissing of it or Jimi
Hendrix's mesmerizing Woodstock version. Go to enough baseball games, and you'll
know ``The Star-Spangled Banner'' is taxing for anyone without perfect pitch,
not to mention bums in the bleachers.

So give credit to Wyclef Jean, hip-hop star Pitbull and Puerto Rican singers
Carlos Ponce and Olga Tañón for singing ``Nuestro Himno,'' the Spanish version
of the U.S. national anthem, which was released last week, in time for Monday's
Day Without Immigrants. Any attempt at ``The Star-Spangled Banner'' is a
high-wire act, and their rendition was more than respectable. As a political
statement on behalf of immigrants yearning to share the freedoms the anthem
represents, it was also stirring.

You'd never know that from the overreaction of President Bush and some others.
You'd have thought the immigrants who sang ``Nuestro Himno'' and radio stations
that played it were desecrating the anthem, not honoring it. Bloviating and
trivializing the immigration issue, Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., promised to
introduce a resolution on the importance of singing the anthem in English. Bush
agreed, because ``people who want to be citizens of the country ought to learn
English.''

There's no dispute there. No one's arguing for playing ``Nuestro Himno'' in
between ``The Star-Spangled Banner'' and ``O Canada'' at a Sharks game. But for
those who don't yet know English, ``Nuestro Himno'' offers insights into the
values and ideals of this country. Even its second verse (Did you know there was
more than one?), in which the writers took liberties with the wording, offers a
civics lesson -- in the First Amendment.

According to a Knight Ridder news story, the State Department posts versions of
``The Star-Spangled Banner,'' along with the Bill of Rights, in other languages
on its Web site. Apparently, the administration wants foreigners to read the
national anthem -- just don't dare hum it.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              357 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Teachers seize chance to teach immigration lessons

BYLINE: Luis Zaragoza and Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

LENGTH: 636 words


Talk about your teachable moments.

With a pro-immigrant rally of historical proportions ramping up just outside
their windows, teachers at Andrew Hill High in San Jose seized the opportunity
to help students understand the issues that led to calls for a nationwide
boycott on Monday.

Boycott organizers had urged students to walk out of class in a show of
solidarity with workers skipping work to highlight migrants' impact on the
economy. As it turned out, most student stayed in class Monday at Andrew Hill
and schools throughout Silicon Valley.

And the hot topic of the moment was on everyone's lips.

It's not enough to declare migrants have ``rights,'' Andrew Hill teachers said
during history and government classes. What rights are you talking about?
Citizenship? Free medical care?

To make a powerful argument for something, teachers said, you need information
from both sides of the debate.

``You need to know what the other side feels if you're going to answer questions
intelligently,'' said teacher Wendy Stegeman, who showed one of her classes the
newly popular satirical film ``A Day Without a Mexican.''

Preliminary reports indicate students in valley schools with larger proportions
of Latino students stayed home in noticeable numbers, but not enough to force
class cancellations or cause other major disruptions. In San Jose Unified, about
16 percent of students stayed home Monday, compared to 8 percent most days, said
spokeswoman Karen Fuqua. The 30,000 student district is 51 percent Latino.

Schools in Sunnyvale-based Fremont Union High School District, East Side Union
High School District in San Jose, Los Altos-Mountain View High School District,
and Palo Alto Unified reported no major spikes in absences overall.

Absentee rates were 27 percent among middle- and high-school students in Los
Angeles Unified, according to the Associated Press.

School officials said the timing of the San Jose-area march and rally -- which
was scheduled to begin at 4 p.m. -- minimized the effect on school attendance.
State and local officials last week urged students to show up for school or risk
detention.

Officials in districts with majority Latino enrollment, such as San Jose Unified
and East Side Union High School District, took extra steps to encourage students
to voice their opinions on campus, and then participate in the demonstration
after school if they wished.

``Today, all I did was wear a white T-shirt,'' white clothing being one of the
symbols of the boycott, said Jacqueline Mendizabal, 18. She went to class at
Milpitas High on Monday, just like most of her friends. Her best friend's
mother, who is part Mexican, told her not to cut classes, so she listened.

At Andrew Hill, students responded with ``Whoa!'' as teacher Lisa McCusker
outlined aspects of proposed immigration legislation such as penalties for
people who help undocumented residents.

McCusker was up until midnight Sunday working on a slide presentation and other
materials so she could tackle the issue with her freshman students on Monday.

``You need to know this stuff so if you protest ... what you say is much more
powerful,'' McCusker said.

School officials acknowledged some students would feel compelled to skip school.

``I didn't go to school. I was protecting my race, my people,'' said Abi
Rodriguez, 18, senior at Robertson High School in Fremont who came from Jalisco,
Mexico, when he was 3.

Rodriguez, who said he is a U.S. citizen, said he told his boss at the mortgage
company where he works after school that he wouldn't be in either. He spent the
day ``cruising around with my friends and went to the rally in San Jose.''

It made him feel great to be part of a movement.

``I saw a lot of races being together, not only Spanish, but blacks and
Chinese.''

Contact Luis Zaragoza at lzaragoza@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5803.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              358 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

San Jose immigration rally under way

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Rodney Foo, Lisa Fernandez and Kimra McPherson,
Mercury News

LENGTH: 1610 words


Thousands of immigrants and their supporters have begun their march in San Jose,
starting their trek to downtown more than 30 minutes ahead of schedule.

Starting from the Mi Pueblo plaza shortly before 3:30 p.m., the throng headed
east on Story Road then turned north on King Road as they headed for a rally in
downtown San Jose.

Minutes after they began, loud boos arose as marchers spotted a single-engine
plane flew overhead pulling a banner that read: ``Wake up America close the
borders.'' It also listed a Web site, Americaisfull.com.

The San Jose march was just one of many that occurred to mark a day of national
immigrant protest throughout the Bay Area and the nation. Earlier today,
thousands marched in San Francisco and Oakland.

Another rally is scheduled this afternoon in Mountain View, among other cities.
Organizers of similar events nationally urged immigrants to boycott work, school
and shopping to protest against legislation that would make it a felony to be in
the country illegally.

Shortly after noon, more than 5,000 marchers started down Market Street in San
Francisco from a plaza across the street from the Ferry Building at the
Embarcadero. The noontime chimes of the Ferry Building played ``God Bless
America.''

An hour later, the marchers, mostly wearing white shirts and many carrying
American flags, stretched more than a mile down Market Street as they walked
toward San Francisco Civic Center for a planned rally.

The march moved slowly as people took their time heading to the Civic Center.
Many banged on drums, danced in the streets and a troupe of American Indian
dancers, in feather headdresses, entertained the crowds. Market Street was
closed to traffic for almost two hours, reopening about 1:30 p.m.

Juan Martinez of San Francisco said he didn't go to work as a prep cook at
Kuleto's, a popular Union Square restaurant, today so he could march with his
wife and three children.

``I don't mind losing a day's pay. That's better than being a slave for all my
life,'' said Martinez, who moved to the United States from Mexico in 1997 and
has a green card. His wife, who cleans houses, also skipped work.

Martinez said he was particularly outraged by House legislation that passed last
December that would make illegal immigrants and those who help them felons. ``If
I helped my brother or my nephew, I'd be considered doing something wrong. It's
a racist law.''

Earlier today in Oakland, a procession of people and cars more than 30 city
blocks long moved along International Boulevard, where most stores had closed in
solidarity with the ``A Day Without Immigrants'' boycott. Many of the protesters
wore white shirts and sang while drivers headed southbound on the other side of
the road beeped their horns.

``I'm here today because I want a green card,'' said Jessie E., a construction
worker who has been in the country for 13 years. He declined to give his last
name but said he lives in Union City with his wife and daughter.

``I pay taxes, rent, bills,'' he said. ``I need opportunity for my life.''

About 225 Stanford University students rallied at noon at a student union plaza,
many saying they wanted to add their voice to the national call for protecting
immigrant rights.

``We wanted people to know that people at Stanford University also feel strongly
about this issue,'' said Katie Frank, 18, a freshman who participated in the
demonstration and said she'd seen immigration issues play out at the border when
she was growing up in San Diego. ``People always think that students at Stanford
are not politically active, but we wanted to add our voice.''

The students marched to the Hoover Institution, a conservative think tank, where
locked doors and barricades prevent protesters from going inside. Organizers
said they hadn't planned to enter the building anyway.

Though the rally was peaceful, one person did call out ``Say it in English!'' as
the demonstrators chanted in Spanish. Organizers said someone tore down their
banner announcing the rally over the weekend, and a second banner put up at the
plaza this morning also was torn down.

Before noon at the corner of Story and King roads in San Jose, the departure
point for the 3 p.m. rally and 4 p.m. march, the Mi Pueblo shopping center was
bustling with hundreds of people wearing white T-shirts and carrying American
and Mexican flags. Juvenal Chavez, the owner of the shopping center's namesake
store and seven other Mi Pueblo markets in the area, said he shut the stores for
the day out of respect for his employees and customers. Employees took Monday as
one of their days off for the week, he said.

``This is the moment of truth,'' Chavez said. ``We look at the mirror and we see
who we are: We are the community.''

Jose Sandoval, 49, created a 200-yard-long banner featuring 1,000 American flag
emblems on display near King and Story.

``It's the heart of the people,'' said Sandoval, a permanent resident who is a
member of the Voluntarios de la Comunidad. ``We have a lot of respect for the
flag and the United States.''

Sandoval also made what he said was a mile-long cross from cloth, which people
decorated with slogans and comments written in spray paint and felt markers.
Dozens of people held the cross aloft as it snaked back and forth in the parking
lot of the Mi Pueblo market.

Lupe Rios, 37, closed her two restaurants -- El Savoy and Nacos Tacos -- and
brought 200 pounds of goat meat to King and Story. She set up a table beside her
white pick-up truck and proceeded to give away free goat meat tacos. As of 1:45
p.m., the line was more than 70 people deep.

``We just want to help our people,'' Rios said. She said her 14 employees were
not paid for the day.

In another shopping center at Story and King, more people spent the morning
preparing for the march. One of them was Irving Gijon, a 17-year-old Overfelt
High School student, who cut class to participate in the march. He said he
finished all his Monday school work over the weekend and on Friday.

``I wanted to protest to try to help my parents, my family -- half of my family
are immigrants and I wouldn't want people to be judging them like they are
criminals,'' he said.

At the nearby Tropicana shopping center, most of the stores appeared to be
closed. Some of them had signs in Spanish and English indicating they were
supporting the protest.

Outside the Home Depot on Blossom Hill Road, just seven immigrant day workers
were looking for jobs this morning. As many as 80 people sometimes look for work
there, the men said.

``Not too much people today,'' said Jose, 45, who was wearing a black cap with
white stitching that read ``San Jose.'' He declined to give his last name.

Santiago Galvan, a permanent resident who is applying for citizenship, took his
two daughters, ages 5 and 7, out of Mount Pleasant Elementary School because he
feels it is important to support immigrants.

``If they don't want to give us papers, OK,'' said the 34-year-old gardener.
``If they don't want to give us drivers licenses, OK. But treat us all right.
We're not terrorists.''

Asked if he plans to spend any money today, he replied: ``Not a penny.''

But at the Plaza de San Jose shopping center, Jesse and Annette Velasquez came
out of the Target store with their 18-month-old son, Matthew, after buying $100
in housewares.

Annette Velasquez said she sympathizes with the immigrants, but thinks they are
making their point in the wrong way.

``The ones who are boycotting work today should be thankful they are in the
United States and are working,'' she said. ``To me, it is a waste of time.''

Some who support the cause went to work today anyway. Martha, who asked that her
last name not be used, is a preschool teacher in Fremont who reported to work
even though she fervently opposes making illegal immigrants felons in this
country. An immigrant from Durango, Mexico herself, Martha said she showed up to
work because she has a ``sense of responsibility to the kids'' who need her. She
has her own two children, 7 and 9, who attend public school and she appreciates
that their teachers showed up Monday, too.

Protests in previous weeks had been marked by students walking out of school,
but neither the San Jose Unified School District nor the East Side Union High
School District reported notable absences early in the school day.

``Hopefully we're going to have our students in class and our employees at the
work site,'' said Ric Abeyta, assistant superintendent of student services for
East Side Union High School District. ``That's what we're expecting.''

San Jose Unified School District spokeswoman Karen Fuqua didn't yet have student
attendance figures this morning but said there were fewer employees absent than
on an average Monday. She said several schools are planning lunchtime rallies
and open mic sessions to give students a chance to talk about immigration
without leaving campus.

``We have a lot of student leaders that have really stepped up to the plate and
encouraged their classmates to stay in school,'' Fuqua said.

Sylvia Gonzalez, 29, of San Jose plans to be at Monday's rally.

She was born in Jalisco, Mexico and her family crossed the border into
California illegally when she was 8 months old. She's lived almost her entire
life in the South Bay, and ``feels terrible every day'' about her status.
Without the proper documentation, she can't get a driver's license, enter
21-and-over clubs because she doesn't have a legitimate ID, and doesn't even
want to apply for college loans or scholarships.

``I'm going to the march because I'm illegal and my mom is illegal and my
brother is illegal,'' she said. ``And I have 16 aunts and uncles in Mexico that
I want to come here legally and help.''

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              359 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Up to 125,000 attended S.J. immigration rally, police say

BYLINE: Kimra McPherson, Mercury News

LENGTH: 232 words


Up to 125,000 people attended Monday's immigration march and rally in San Jose,
one of the largest demonstrations in the city's history, according to police
estimates.

Officers' estimates of the crowd that marched from Story and King roads to
Guadalupe River Park ranged from 100,000 to 125,000, Sgt. Nick Muyo said. The
march left early from the starting point at Story and King because so many
people had gathered, and when the first marchers arrived at the park, others
were just starting to walk.

Few violent incidents were reported, Muyo said. Five people were stabbed along
the march route -- two through their open car window as they drove along the
route, three others as they passed the intersection of Santa Clara and 14th
streets. A sixth person was struck over the head with a blunt object. In each
case, the suspects fled before they could be arrested. The victims were treated
at local hospitals.

An officer patrolling the march on a bicycle also suffered minor injuries after
being struck by a vehicle.

Police made a handful of other arrests for violations including public
intoxication and obstructing police officers, Muyo said.

``When you consider how many people we had there, things came off pretty much
without a hitch,'' Muyo said. ``For the most part, the people who attended the
march did a good job.''

Contact Kimra McPherson at kmcpherson@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5928.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              360 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 5, 2006 Friday

Freedom and opportunity, not language, define American values

BYLINE: Eddie García

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 673 words


As third- and fourth-generation Mexican-Americans, my two young daughters and I
walked side-by-side with a sea of marchers May 1 to demonstrate our support for
immigrant rights. I couldn't help but feel a sense of pride to see so many
people exercise the most American of values -- free speech.

I was proud of the courage displayed by those who marched, and I relished that
we, as a country, have progressed and matured since the days of violence on
civil rights demonstrators by Southern authorities with fire hoses and attack
dogs.

To be sure, our nation needs to have a thoughtful debate on immigration,
especially with respect to undocumented workers. The discussion should include
all relevant public policy issues. Unfortunately, the segment of our populace
that is fixated on the notion that immigration dilutes American culture and
values continues to hamper meaningful discussion. Not only do those beliefs
hinder thoughtful debate, they also falsely imply that American values are
connected to language and culture.

Our values were born during the American Revolution and memorialized in the
Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. From Jefferson's declaration
that all people have a right to pursue happiness to the freedoms outlined in the
Bill of Rights, American values are based on the concepts of human dignity and
freedom.

Nowhere in those seminal documents do the Founding Fathers proclaim that
proficiency in English, a hearty appetite for apple pie, or a specific ethnic
heritage are requirements for American values. The basis for our values is
simple -- the belief in freedom, hard work and the opportunity to succeed
without regard to one's station in society. At best, those who believe otherwise
don't truly understand the concept of American values. At worst, they may be
xenophobes who are intolerant of diversity.

To illustrate the true notion of American values, the life of my father-in-law,
a man I greatly admire, comes to mind. He came to the United States over 50
years ago as a teenager. He worked in the fields of central California, married
and moved to San Jose in the 1960s for a construction job and in search of the
American dream. He and his wife raised four daughters, all of whom are
college-educated and productive members of our community.

My father-in-law is more comfortable speaking in Spanish than in English. He
would rather eat a meal of rice and beans than a hamburger and fries. When
watching TV, he is more likely to tune into Univision instead of CNN. Those who
believe that our nation's values and culture are based on language, food and
television habits would argue that my father-in-law doesn't represent American
values.

However, for the past 50 years, he has worked hard, paid taxes, financed the
education of four children, voted in elections and gratefully struggled in his
pursuit of happiness. On a recent trip to Washington, he beamed with pride as he
entered the White House for a tour. Based on the concepts outlined by our
Founding Fathers, my father-in-law personifies American values and culture --
albeit not in the language that some would have him do so.

The 100,000 demonstrators who marched in San Jose strongly conveyed their belief
in American culture by exercising the value of free speech. They may choose the
San Jose International Mariachi Festival over the San Jose Jazz Festival,
tortillas over wheat bread, and the Star-Spangled Banner in Spanish over
English. Nevertheless, it is clear that they believe in the values that our
national anthem so eloquently brings to life. They believe in the American dream
that my father-in-law embarked on a half century ago.

As Americans, we should continue a healthy debate on immigration, but let's not
divert the attention to those who fear diversity under the guise of protecting
American values. Those who come to our country already understand our values.
That's why they risked all to be here.

EDDIE GARCÍA is chair of the Mexican Heritage Plaza's board of directors. He
wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              361 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Weekly Editorials

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 459 words

Sunday Municipal services

San Jose decided last year to turn over as many as 34 community centers to
non-profit organizations to run. It's a sound idea -- one that has worked
elsewhere --and certainly preferable to shuttering them. But as the time for
more decisions gets closer, the odds of success have shrunk. Community
Foundation Silicon Valley and the Silicon Valley Council of Nonprofits doubt
whether non-profits will step forward to run the centers without adequate city
funding or the ability to charge sufficient fees.

Monday Measure B

Santa Clara County's parks are a treasure, thanks to voters. For more than 30
years, they have agreed to set aside a small amount of property tax to guarantee
the park system is maintained and can be expanded as the population grows. That
set-aside, known as the Park Charter Fund, is up for renewal as Measure B.
Voting yes for parks should be the easiest decision on the June 6 ballot.

Tuesday Immigration

A Day Without Immigrants made an exclamation point across the nation on Monday,
even if it did not dent the economy. The dramatic visibility of the undocumented
immigrants will continue to make its mark by forcing the discussion of
immigration.

Wednesday Education

An innovative survey by the Santa Clara County Partnership for School Readiness
and the Peninsula Partnership for Children, Youth and Families shows that more
than 60 percent of children in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties are well
prepared for kindergarten. It's far more important to focus on the kids who
aren't sufficiently prepared. Research shows that children's readiness is a
crucial factor in their later success in school.

Thursday State budget

Unexpected money rained down on Sacramento last month, but it could dry up fast.
The $11.3 billion in income tax collected was $3 billion more than the state
anticipated and $1 billion more than in April 2001. The windfall creates a boon
and a dilemma for Schwarzenegger. He and the Legislature should look to get the
most from the money, paying down debt but resisting using much of it for ongoing
expenses.

Friday Health care

The May 15 deadline for senior citizens to sign up for the new prescription drug
benefit -- Medicare Part D -- should be extended. The federal government botched
the implementation of the program last fall and has made it far too difficult
for many seniors to navigate the complex process of choosing a drug plan. The
least Congress can do is extend the opportunity to sign up for coverage without
penalty until Dec. 31. It should also offer seniors who chose an inappropriate
plan a window of opportunity to change plans without penalty.

On mercurynews.com

Read complete text of these editorials and check out other issues we're
tracking. Visit the Opinion section.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              362 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                               May 7, 2006 Sunday

Mexican white-collar immigration rising;
BETTER PAY TRUMPS EDUCATION, CAREERS

BYLINE: Will Weissert, Associated Press

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 501 words


Juan Manuel Guillermo was a year away from a law degree. Then his son got sick.

The 9-month-old needed expensive intestinal surgery, so instead of finishing
school, Guillermo headed north to California in hopes of joining his brother
toiling in the sun-scorched fruit fields of Orange County.

``I wanted to get settled as a professional and be with my family . . . I never
in my life thought I would go,'' Guillermo, 22, said recently from the border
city of Tijuana after his fourth unsuccessful attempt to cross into the United
States.

While many Americans associate Mexican immigration with poor, rural laborers, a
large number of those seeking work in the United States these days are
better-educated and hail from relatively well-to-do, middle-class backgrounds in
the city.

Many set aside years of training and education to illegally clean houses, take
seasonal landscaping jobs or accept positions at meatpacking plants -- all of
which pay better than most white-collar work in their homeland.

Many obtain visas to work, study or join family members already there. Hundreds
of thousands do not.

``Before, we saw only rural people with little education,'' said Efrain Jiménez,
vice president of a Los Angeles group serving migrants from the northern Mexican
state of Zacatecas.

``Now we see young professionals or those who, after years of working, haven't
been able to save up much money and look for other options.''

That was the case for José Álvaro López, whose three years of trade school and
degree in appliance repair got him a job that paid only $100 a week in his
native Ensenada, 45 miles south of the California border.

The 30-year-old, interviewed at a migrant shelter in Tijuana, said he would try
to sneak into the United States and join friends in Nevada.

``They told me that in Las Vegas I could earn $35 an hour repairing
refrigerators,'' he said.

It's hard to find any Mexican family -- rich or poor -- that doesn't have
relatives or friends in the United States.

Even Felipe Calderón, the former energy secretary who leads the latest polls as
the presidential candidate of the ruling, pro-business National Action Party,
often mentions on the campaign trail that he has a cousin and brother-in-law
there. He has refused to name them or divulge their legal status.

Life for many Mexican professionals changes drastically when they cross the
border. Some of the doctors, dentists and nurses who migrate see patients in
their apartments because they don't have the necessary certification or visa to
work in hospitals or clinics.

Of the estimated 10.6 million Mexicans -- both legal and undocumented -- who
live in the United States, nearly 700,000, or about one in 15, have college
degrees, said Rodolfo Tuirán, President Vicente Fox's deputy secretary of social
development until last year.

He said migrants from major metropolitan areas, including the country's three
largest, Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey, are heading north at rates
faster than their counterparts from many rural regions.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              363 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday

Immigrant advocates aim for a million new citizens

BYLINE: Teresa Watanabe, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 244 words


Aiming to transform street passions into political power, organizers of recent
immigration marches Tuesday announced a national campaign to produce 1 million
new citizens and voters by the November midterm elections.

The drive will ``channel the unprecedented momentum of our previous marches into
a targeted mass campaign for civic action,'' Roman Catholic Auxiliary Bishop
Gabino Zavala said at a news conference at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the
Angels in Los Angeles.

Flanked by immigrant mothers holding white Mother's Day roses to symbolize their
separation from families back home, Zavala said the campaign marked the
immigration movement's next step to press for legislation that would provide
more visas to reunify families and legalize the nation's estimated 11.5 million
illegal migrants.

Since March, hundreds of thousands of immigrants and their supporters have
staged marches, rallies, school walkouts and a boycott of work and consumer
spending across the nation in support of legalization and other changes.

Tuesday, representatives of religious, labor and community groups announced that
they would target next Wednesday as a national lobbying day, sending advocates
from around the nation to Washington, D.C., with hundreds of thousands of
postcards urging change.

The campaign marks the first of several nationally coordinated political actions
by the We Are America Alliance, a new network of hundreds of religious, labor
and community organizations.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              364 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

Renewed pressure on immigration

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Services

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words


Immigration activists in San Jose and other cities nationwide are planning a
one-day lobbying push today -- organizing phone banks, distributing postcards
and visiting Washington to pressure Congress for legislation that avoids
criminal penalties and instead provides a ``path to legalization'' for illegal
immigrants now in the country.

On the heels of President Bush's call for Congress to enact a comprehensive
immigration bill, hundreds of religious leaders and other activists are planning
visits with legislators and key staffers in the Capitol, where the Senate is
currently debating amendments to an immigration bill.

A delegation from California will include two members of a South Bay interfaith
council, including the Rev. John Freesemann of Holy Redeemer Lutheran Church in
San Jose and Samina Faheem Sundas of the American Muslim Voice, a cultural and
educational group based in Newark.

While many Americans oppose a blanket amnesty for illegal immigrants, the Rev.
Carol Been of the interfaith council said the religious delegates would like to
see the government establish a process for ``citizenship which is earned, not
amnesty.''

Meanwhile, union members and other volunteers are planning to staff ``immigrant
justice action centers'' from 11 a.m to 2 p.m. today at several locations where
people will be calling congressional offices and distributing postcards for
people to sign.

They also will distribute voter-registration material to citizens, said Salvador
``Chava'' Bustamante, a vice president of the Service Employees International
Union Local 1877.

``We want to energize people and mobilize voters,'' said Bustamante, whose union
worked earlier this spring to help organize rallies against a House bill that
would make illegal immigration a felony.

Locations in San Jose will include the SEIU office at 1010 Ruff Drive and the
local headquarters of Acorn, a community organizing group, at 540 Bird Ave.
Bustamante said volunteers also will set up tables near the intersection of King
and Story roads, as well as other spots in the South Bay.

Other groups are planning similar efforts in Los Angeles and cities around the
country. While reaction to Bush's speech was mixed, some activists said they
were buoyed by the fact that the issue at least remains a priority.

``The one clear message coming out is that the White House is engaged,'' said
Cecilia Muñoz of the National Council of La Raza. ``They're willing to invest in
this issue.''

The call to arrange face-to-face meetings with members of Congress and their
staffs was put out just a week ago when the We Are America Alliance, a loose
coalition of the nation's biggest pro-immigrant groups, was formed.

Participants were asked to pay for their own travel, so organizers expected to
get about 100 activists, said Cory Smith of the Coalition for Comprehensive
Immigration Reform, a member group.

By Tuesday, however, more than 400 had confirmed -- and as many as 1,000 were
expected, said Joan Maruskin, who works on immigration issues for Church World
Service in Washington, which will register participants, provide breakfast and
help visitors navigate the Capitol.

With the Senate taking up immigration and Bush's prime-time speech, there was a
renewed sense of vigor among the activists, she said.

``The incredibly exciting thing is to see the spirit that is moving everyone,''
she said. ``It's amazing.''

The labor activists, religious leaders and grass-roots organizers taking part in
the campaign were expected to slightly adjust their messages to lawmakers
depending on local concerns, but most planned to work from a shared outline
provided by the alliance.

The groups' top priorities are reuniting immigrant families and providing a path
to citizenship. While they generally oppose Bush's plan to deploy National Guard
troops to help secure the U.S.-Mexican border, most acknowledge the need to
reduce illegal immigration.

In Atlanta, a busload of activists were planning to depart on a 1,300-mile round
trip to Washington on Tuesday evening.

``Senators will see what's really going on,'' said Julian Herrera, a Pentecostal
pastor and organizer. ``They'll see what's our potential.''

More than 100 Irish immigrants from nearly a dozen states also were on the way,
said Kelly Fincham, executive director of the Irish Lobby for Immigration
Reform. ``We're targeting 100 congressmen -- we'll be knocking on people's
doors,'' she said.

In Los Angeles, many planned to stay home to register voters or visit the
California offices of federal elected officials and the state Democratic and
Republican parties, said the Rev. Giovanni Bizzotto of St. Peter's Italian
Church.

Still, Bizzotto and about 20 others flew to Washington to ``keep the pressure on
the Senate to give us legislation that would be good for the people,'' he said.

Not all pro-immigrant groups agreed with the lobbying plan. ``The current
proposals in the Senate fall far short of the basic issues,'' said Monami
Maulik, director of Desis Rising Up and Moving, a Queens-based group of mainly
Southeast Asian immigrants which has not joined the We Are America Alliance.
They planned to hold a rally tonight.

``We will not accept such a highly compromised bill,'' Maulik said.

Still, many said that after scores of protest marches across the country in
recent weeks, the next step is shifting the energy to influence public policy.

``The public attention is now, for the first time in a long time, really, really
centered on this debate,'' said Hector Figueroa, treasurer of SEIU chapter 32BJ,
which has members from Connecticut to Washington. ``Right now is a great
opportunity for us to push this issue with the American public.''

Mercury News Staff Writer Brandon Bailey and the Associated Press contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              365 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 19, 2006 Friday

Bush inspects Arizona border efforts

BYLINE: James Gerstenzang, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words


Declaring that ``we do not have full control of the border,'' President Bush on
Thursday visited an area where arrests -- and deaths -- of would-be immigrants
have risen dramatically, and he urged the Senate to complete work on immigration
legislation by the end of the month.

The president spent about an hour inspecting the arid and stark border, marked
by a 20-foot-tall corrugated metal structure, an 8-foot-tall chain-link fence
topped by razor-sharp concertina wire, powerful lights, watchtowers and video
cameras -- an ever-growing low- and high-tech arsenal deployed in a sector where
the Border Patrol says the most apprehensions have occurred.

Then, speaking to officers at their headquarters in Yuma, about 20 miles north
of the border, he said 6,000 National Guard soldiers were needed to help secure
the border while the Border Patrol is beefed up over the next two years because
``the need to enforce the border is urgent.''

``It's time to get immediate results,'' Bush said.

Bush's commitment

The president's daylong journey, three days after he announced the National
Guard deployment, was designed to highlight his newly emphasized commitment to
immigration issues.

But he is caught between those who argue that border duty would overtax the
National Guard and those who are demanding a more muscular effort along the
border. Some critics also have expressed concern that the border is becoming
militarized.

``The Guard will operate surveillance and communications systems. They will
install fences and vehicle barriers. They're going to help build patrol roads,
they will analyze intelligence, they will help spot people. But the Border
Patrol will be involved in direct law enforcement,'' Bush said.

Seeking to draw attention to his call for broad legislation to overhaul
immigration laws, Bush sat in near-100-degree heat for TV interviews, with the
chain-link fence to his left and a Border Patrol vehicle behind him.

He was accompanied by Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat who has largely
supported his new immigration efforts; David Aguilar, chief of the Border
Patrol; and the patrol's local chief, Ron Colburn.

Fewer attempts

Richard Hays, a supervising Border Patrol agent, told White House pool reporters
that before the chain-link fence, lights and cameras were installed, 70 to 80
people would cross at a time. The new measures have reduced the incursions, he
said, although the region remains the patrol's busiest.

In addition to deploying the National Guard, the president favors a guest-worker
program that would allow immigrants to enter the country legally for a specific
period -- thus removing the incentive to sneak across the border.

Under the program, Bush said, workers would be required to pass a
criminal-background check and would be given tamperproof identification cards.

He favors giving access to citizenship to those who have lived in the United
States for a specified, but as yet unstated, period and have paid taxes and a
fine for entering the country illegally.

``This is a rational way to deal with people who are God-fearing, decent people
and respect their dignity at the same time,'' Bush said.

But, he added, ``nobody should be given an automatic citizenship -- that's
called amnesty.''

As Bush headed to Yuma on Thursday, the White House sent to Congress a revision
in its $92 billion request for emergency spending, most of it to cover costs
associated with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the recovery from Hurricane
Katrina. Within that amount, it is seeking $1.95 billion to meet the costs of
deploying 1,000 new Border Patrol agents, fences, lights and some of the border
work of the National Guard.

White House press secretary Tony Snow said the Border Patrol's Yuma sector is
``emblematic of what we're talking about in terms of border security.''

He told reporters aboard Air Force One: ``We've got an area with the fence;
we've got Border Patrol there. But also this is an area where National Guardsmen
are involved in non-law-enforcement roles.''

With increased enforcement along the border in eastern Arizona, there has been a
spike in attempts to enter the United States in western Arizona, near Yuma. The
95,000 arrests along the Yuma sector since Oct. 1 represent a 13 percent
increase over the same period a year ago. Deaths in the desert, beyond the
fortified zone, were a record 51 in 2005, up from 15 two years earlier.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              366 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 23, 2006 Tuesday

Schwarzenegger recalls day he became a U.S. citizen

BYLINE: Associated Press

LENGTH: 213 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger avoided the contentious border issues before him
today as he addressed an audience of newly sworn in U.S. citizens.

Instead, he highlighted his own journey to citizenship 23 years ago, saying he
``never felt prouder than when I became an American citizen.''

``You hear so much these days about the cost of immigration in this county,''
Schwarzenegger said at San Francisco's Masonic Auditorium. ``Let's not forget
about all the great things that immigrants contribute to this country.''

Schwarzenegger was the keynote speaker at a naturalization ceremony for more
than 1,100 immigrants from about 100 countries who took the oath to become U.S.
citizens.

The Republican governor did not comment on President Bush's plan to send 6,000
National Guard troops to secure the U.S.-Mexico border or weigh in on the heated
debate over federal immigration legislation.

Schwarzenegger recalled how excited he was the day he took the citizenship oath
in October 1983, 15 years after he arrived from Austria ``with my gym bag and
with twenty dollars in my pocket.''

``After that ceremony, I went home and I wrapped myself in the American flag,''
the governor said. ``I was smiling from ear to ear because I was so excited
about now being officially called an American.''

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              367 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration report shakes up D.C. debate;
IT ESTIMATES 103 MILLION PEOPLE WOULD ENTER U.S.

BYLINE: William Douglas, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words


It caught Vice President Dick Cheney off guard, emboldened the conservative
opposition and has become one of the most talked about ``talking points'' in the
battle over the Senate's sweeping immigration bill.

A study by the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy-research center, said
the Senate bill would allow a staggering 103 million immigrants to enter the
United States over the next 20 years. The report instantly became the weapon of
choice for the bill's opponents in Washington, on talk radio and across the
country.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., cited the report Tuesday when voicing opposition to
the legislation, which he said would explode America's population and bust the
federal budget because its increase of low-skilled, undereducated immigrants
would tax the welfare system.

``As the facts become more clear, I think there's more unease,'' Sessions said
as he sat beside Robert Rector, the author of the Heritage study. ``I heard a
senator tell me not long ago, `The more I learn about this bill, the worse I
think it is.' And I think there's some concern growing in this regard.''

But independent analysts and supporters of the immigration measure say the
Heritage report's numbers do not add up.

A Congressional Budget Office study released last week estimates that the Senate
bill would increase the U.S. population by 8 million residents by 2016.

To reach 103 million, Rector ``assumes the maximums, pulls out all the stops for
every loophole, possibility, and makes some assumptions -- some unrealistic --
about how many family members will be brought in,'' said William Frey, a
demographer for the Brookings Institution, a center-left policy-research center.
``It's widely unrealistic. You cannot assume the maximum numbers for some of the
provisions. He is pushing it to the extremes.''

Still, the Heritage study has influenced the Senate debate. It helped persuade a
large Senate majority last week to approve a proposal by Sen. Jeff Bingaman,
D-N.M., to cut the bill's number of guest-worker visas from 350,000 to 200,000.
After the 80-17 vote, some senators said the reduction reflected concern that
the United States cannot absorb so many guest workers.

Bingaman's amendment forced Rector to lower his projection of the immigration
bill's impact. He cut his forecast of how many new immigrants it would admit to
this country over 20 years to 66 million.

But Rector says the Senate measure remains a bad bill. He challenged the CBO's
assertions, saying the budget office underestimates the number of illegal
immigrants who had become legal and the number of dependents who had come to the
United States once a relative becomes legal.

Talk radio host Rush Limbaugh seemed to catch Cheney off guard last week when he
pressed him on the Heritage report.

``I haven't seen their analysis, Rush,'' Cheney said. ``If that's the case, I
would hope that would inform the debate and that Congress will consider those
kinds of impacts very carefully before they finally pass something.''

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              368 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 24, 2006 Wednesday

Governor avoids controversy during citizenship ceremony

BYLINE: Mary Anne Ostrom, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words


With controversial immigration issues swirling nationwide, Gov. Arnold
Schwarzenegger told 1,150 new citizens in San Francisco on Tuesday that they
should ``give back'' to America and suggested they learn English, as he did, to
become ``part of the American fabric.''

The governor, an Austrian native who became a U.S. citizen in 1983, also
reminded Americans not to overlook the contributions of immigrants, but did not
address border or legislation issues.

``When you hear today so much about the cost of immigrants in this country,
let's not forget about all the great things immigrants contribute to this
country,'' Schwarzenegger said in a short speech during a regularly planned
naturalization ceremony. Among a list of prominent immigrants to America, he
mentioned Intel co-founder Andy Grove, a Hungarian native.

The governor, who has been trying hard to steer a moderate course on immigration
issues, told the new citizens, who came from 101 nations: ``You all worked hard.
You obeyed the law and followed the rules. Today you are rewarded.''

In the past, Schwarzenegger has said he supports a guest-worker program and does
not believe illegal immigrants should be considered felons, as House legislation
has called for.

Even as he prepares to meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox in Sacramento on
Thursday, Schwarzenegger did not say if he will approve President Bush's call to
place National Guard troops at the California-Mexico border. His office said he
is waiting to hear from the Department of Homeland Security on several issues,
including whether the state will be liable for any of the cost.

Instead, the governor used Tuesday's event to deliver an inspirational speech,
in which he briefly described his rags-to-riches story -- arriving with $20 and
a gym bag.

After the speech, the governor came down to join the audience and handed out
more than a dozen citizen certificates. For more than 15 minutes he shook hands,
posed for photos and signed autographs as he was mobbed by dozens of new
citizens. The scene was captured by more than a dozen television and still
cameras, and a large contingent of local and national reporters.

Schwarzenegger representative Sabrina Demayo Lockhart said the governor has had
an open invitation for a month from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services to speak at one of the federal agency's naturalization ceremonies, and
Tuesday's event fit his schedule. An immigration service representative said the
governor's office expressed interest about two weeks ago.

``The main reason why the governor appeared,'' Lockhart said, ``is he is an
immigrant and he wants to share his experiences with other new immigrants and
congratulate them.''

Tuesday's event marked Schwarzenegger's second appearance at a naturalization
ceremony as governor. In 2004, he attended a naturalization service for soldiers
at Camp Pendleton.

The Masonic Auditorium crowd grew antsy while awaiting Schwarzenegger's arrival,
and though a few booed when he finally appeared on stage, overall he received an
enthusiastic reception. He got one of his biggest laughs when he explained that
after he arrived in the United States he found it important to learn English to
take advantage of opportunities.

``I studied English. Not that I am perfect yet, but I studied English,
nevertheless,'' the governor said.

Sachin Rohatgi, who immigrated to the United States in 1997 from India and
became a citizen Tuesday, watched the autograph-signing frenzy from the
sidelines. The San Mateo man found the speech inspirational, but added of the
governor's appearance, ``I think it has to be political.''

Through an interpreter, Rafael Vasquez, a former Mexican resident now living
near Santa Rosa, also gained citizenship Tuesday. Although he appreciated the
governor coming, he added that ``it would be a bad thing'' for the governor to
agree with the president's directive to place National Guard troops at the
border.

Contact Mary Anne Ostrom at mostrom@mercurynews.com or (415) 477-3794.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              369 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Re-activating visa process for brother possible

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 566 words


Q I sponsored my brother for permanent residence in the late '80s. His petition
was approved, but he did not go to the consulate for the required visa interview
and never got a green card.

Is it possible to re-activate his application? Does he need to wait in line to
get his green card, which may take years? Also, could this pending status cause
him to be denied a visitor's visa to the United States?

Ramaswamy RamanSanta Clara

A Based on the latest visa bulletin, your brother likely became eligible to
immigrate to the United States several years ago, according to Amie D. Miller,
an immigration lawyer from San Francisco.

If the consulate or National Visa Center never sent him paperwork to begin
consular processing, then it may be possible to activate his petition, Miller
said, and start the visa process for him. Miller said she was recently able to
do that in two similar cases.

However, if the consulate or National Visa Center did send the paperwork and he
never got it or never replied -- for example, if he did not notify them of a new
address -- then the case would have been closed, considered abandoned, after one
year.

This would mean he would have to start the process from the beginning. It would
make the process of tracking what happened to the case easier if you have the
original approval notice, Miller said.

Q Is there any way to legally employ someone here on a tourist visa? Our company
is interested in hiring someone with very specialized skills, who is here on a
tourist visa.

Apparently there are no new H1-B visas being issued. . This individual does have
a valid California driver's license and a Social Security card as a result of
working legally here many years ago.

Ayesha Pai TiscarenoSan Jose

A Visitors to the United States on tourist visas are not allowed to work,
according to San Francisco immigration attorney Randall Caudle.

The simple answer to your question and the matter of tourist visas is, ``99.9
percent no,'' Caudle said.

There are exceptions: Those that apply to nannies or caretakers of U.S. workers
who have been stationed abroad for at least two years.

Technically, the nannies or caretakers are coming on tourist visas, Caudle said,
but they are allowed to work because they've been employed abroad by U.S.
citizens working at U.S. stations such as a military base or an embassy.

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled a workshop on citizenship in San Jose called, ``Overview
of Naturalization.''

It will be from 9:30 to 11 a.m. June 5 at the St. James Senior Center, 199 N.
Third St., San Jose. The session will be presented in English, with Chinese
translation.

The workshop is free, but the public is asked to confirm attendance by calling
the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              370 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 28, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Re-activating visa process for brother may be possible

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 571 words


Q I sponsored my brother for permanent residence in the late '80s. His petition
was approved, but he did not go to the consulate for the required visa interview
and never got a green card.

Is it possible to re-activate his application? Does he need to wait in line to
get his green card, which may take years? Also, could this pending status cause
him to be denied a visitor's visa to the United States?

Ramaswamy RamanSanta Clara

A Based on the latest visa bulletin, your brother likely became eligible to
immigrate to the United States several years ago, according to Amie D. Miller,
an immigration lawyer from San Francisco.

If the consulate or National Visa Center never sent him paperwork to begin
consular processing, then it may be possible to activate his petition, Miller
said, and start the visa process for him. Miller said she was recently able to
do that in two similar cases.

However, if the consulate or National Visa Center did send the paperwork and he
never got it or never replied -- for example, if he did not notify them of a new
address -- then the case would have been closed, considered abandoned, after one
year, Miller said.

This would mean he would have to start the process from the beginning. It would
make the process of tracking what happened to the case easier if you have the
original approval notice, Miller said.

Q Is there any way to legally employ someone here on a tourist visa? Our company
is interested in hiring someone with very specialized skills, who is here on a
tourist visa.

Apparently there are no new H1-B visas being issued. . This individual does have
a valid California driver's license and a Social Security card as a result of
working legally in the United States many years ago.

Ayesha Pai TiscarenoSan Jose

A Visitors to the United States on tourist visas are not allowed to work,
according to San Francisco immigration attorney Randall Caudle.

The simple answer to your question and the matter of tourist visas is, ``99.9
percent no,'' Caudle said.

There are exceptions: Those that apply to nannies or caretakers of U.S. workers
who have been stationed abroad for at least two years.

Technically, the nannies or caretakers are coming on tourist visas, Caudle said,
but they are allowed to work because they've been employed abroad by U.S.
citizens working at U.S. stations such as a military base or an embassy.

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services has scheduled a workshop on citizenship in San Jose called, ``Overview
of Naturalization.''

It will be from 9:30 to 11 a.m. June 5 at the St. James Senior Center, 199 N.
Third St., San Jose. The session will be presented in English, with Chinese
translation.

The workshop is free, but the public is asked to confirm attendance by calling
the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              371 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              May 29, 2006 Monday

For border issues, learn from history

BYLINE: Mae M. Ngai

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 939 words


``Made in America -- by immigrants'' and ``We too have a dream'' read signs at
the May 1 marches across the country. By invoking an American ideal, today's
newcomers are staking their claim as the latest generation of nation-builders.
But their critics object to this appeal to history; they resent comparisons to
previous generations of immigrants, who were legal.

Sen. Jon Kyl, R-Ariz., for example, says his grandparents -- Dutch immigrants
who settled in Nebraska -- didn't try to get ahead by breaking the law. Rather,
they made it through ``frugality . . . hard work, grit, honesty,'' he says.
``They would be very upset about people who didn't do it the right way.''

Such comparisons between past and present miss a crucial point. There were so
few restrictions on immigration in the 19th and early 20th centuries that there
was no such thing as ``illegal immigration.'' The government excluded a mere 1
percent of the 25 million immigrants who landed at New York's Ellis Island
before World War I, mostly for health reasons. (Chinese were the exception,
excluded on grounds of ``racial unassimilability.'')

What's more, statutes of limitations of one to five years meant even those here
unlawfully did not live forever with the specter of deportation.

In the early 1900s, immigrants from Europe provided cheap, unskilled labor that
made possible the nation's industrial and urban expansion. They shoveled pig
iron, dug sewers and subway tunnels and sewed shirtwaists. Even then, people
born in the United States complained that newcomers stole jobs, were ignorant
and criminal, and showed no desire to become citizens. The rhetoric often was
unabashedly prejudiced against Italians, Jews, Poles and other ``degraded races
of Europe.''

In the conservative climate after World War I, Congress slammed shut the golden
door. For the first time, the United States imposed numerical limits on
immigration. Congress gave the smallest quotas to Eastern and Southern European
countries and excluded all Asians; it also created the U.S. Border Patrol and
eliminated statutes of limitations on deportation. It exempted countries of the
Western Hemisphere, however, in deference to agricultural labor needs and the
State Department's tradition of pan-Americanism.

These quotas created illegal immigration as a mass phenomenon. And since that
time, Americans have been of two minds about the problem. We want restrictions
on immigration, but we hesitate to execute mass deportations. Congress has
pursued border control, on the one hand and legalization of the undocumented on
the other.

Our legalization policies recognized that once a person settled here and had a
family, a job and a home, he or she became a part of society. Separating
families was seen as detrimental to individuals and society, and deportation was
likened to banishment.

Here's how hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants -- mostly Europeans --
became legal:

The Registry Act of 1929 allowed immigrants who arrived before 1921 but had no
record of their admission to register retroactively, for a $20 fee.

From 1935 to the late 1950s, to keep families together, tens of thousands of
Europeans unlawfully in the United States were temporarily allowed to go to
Canada and legally re-enter the States as permanent residents.

In 1940, Congress authorized the suspension of orders of deportation in cases of
hardship, which it defined as ``serious economic detriment'' to the immigrant's
immediate family. The guidelines have become less generous, but the principle
remains in the law.

In 1965, the United States repealed racial restrictions against Southern and
Eastern Europeans and Asians, but the 1965 law also imposed quotas for the first
time on Western Hemisphere countries. That created illegal immigration from
Mexico and Central America.

The 1986 immigration reforms addressed the problem by legalizing nearly 3
million undocumented workers. It also called for increased enforcement -- which
didn't stop illegal immigration; it just made it more dangerous.

President Bush wants Congress to provide today's undocumented immigrants with a
pathway to citizenship, to establish a guest-worker program and to add the
National Guard to police efforts at the border. History is only partly on his
side.

Providing a route to legalization -- even one that is much less generous than
we've offered in the past -- at least adheres to precedent. But history shows
that as long as we restrict the number of legal entries, there will be a
parallel stream of unauthorized ones, even with tough enforcement laws. And the
European experience with guest-worker programs should warn us that guests don't
always go home when they are supposed to.

To really tackle the problem, we might consider updating other policies from the
nation's past. Reinstituting a statute of limitations on deportation would limit
the numbers of undocumented people in the country. We also could raise the
ceiling on legal admissions -- or eliminate it, especially for neighboring
countries. This is not such a radical idea: The North American Free Trade
Agreement already has lowered barriers to the movement of capital and products,
while citizens of European Union states have free movement within the EU.

Legalizing the undocumented is just and humane. But unless we address the
restrictions on legal admission that do so much to cause illegal entries, the
cycle of enforcement and legalization will continue.

MAE N. NGAI is a history professor at the University of Chicago and author of
``Impossible Subjects: Illegal Aliens and the Making of Modern America.'' She
wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              372 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             May 31, 2006 Wednesday

Immigration vote will define House, GOP

BYLINE: Patrick J. Buchanan

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 782 words


``Our Enemy, the State'' was a minor classic by Albert Jay Nock that young
conservatives consumed in the Goldwater days of long ago.

In the 1970s, however, ``conservatives'' tasted power under Nixon. In 1980, they
captured the White House. Today they control the government. But along that long
road to power, many shed principles and convictions as they came to relish the
wielding of power for its own sake no less than the liberals of the New Deal and
Great Society.

Many now in power are in reality conservative impersonators, the sort of people
the conservative movement was first mounted to run out of town. Indeed, under
George W. Bush, the party of Goldwater and Reagan has become a second party of
government. Social spending has soared as rapidly as it did in the salad days of
LBJ.

Last week, the title of Nock's classic came again to mind. For ``Our Enemy, the
State'' is an exact description of a regime that seeks to convert into law a
Senate amnesty for millions of illegal aliens, while authorizing transnational
companies to go abroad to bring hundreds of thousands of foreign workers here
every year to displace Americans.

Three in five Republican senators voted ``no'' to amnesty. It sped to passage,
however, with the backing of President George W. Bush, Sen. John McCain, Sen.
Bill Frist and nine of every 10 Senate Democrats.

That proposed amnesty, and the bipartisan support it won, is a textbook example
of an establishment against the people, and a state at war with the nation. For
that bill would alter the face, fate and future of America against the expressed
will of the nation.

Rather than stand with the people who put them in office, Bush, Frist, McCain
and 21 GOP senators, in the defining collision between K Street values and Main
Street values, went with K Street.

Since the Immigration Act of 1965, Americans, in every poll and referendum, have
demanded reductions in immigration, an end to the invasion through Mexico, no
amnesty, a resolute defense of America's borders. Yet, not until a firestorm of
protest erupted after he called the Minutemen ``vigilantes'' did Bush begin to
speak up for border security.

Given the collapse in enforcement of U.S. immigration laws in his first five
years in office, it calls for a great leap of faith to credit Bush's sincerity
now. One senses the president is tossing pennies to the House to buy their
support of the amnesty-guest worker plan on which he and Vicente Fox have been
colluding for years.

Now it comes down to the people's House. And the question is a simple one: Will
the House that, last December, voted for the toughest border security and
enforcement bill in our lifetime capitulate to the president and his allies from
Harry Reid to the New York Times to La Raza?

But this is not only a test of the House. It is an opportunity for the House. It
is a chance for the House to declare its independence of the national
establishment. If the House will say to the Senate and Bush, ``No amnesty, no
deal!'' it will have not only done its duty by the people who elected it, it
will have rejected dishonorable compromise in favor of what is right for
America.

But if the House goes along with a Senate bill with which, by its own December
vote, it disagrees, a bill that will break the hearts of people who put it in
power, what will be the remaining argument for keeping the House Republican?

Answer: There is none. This immigration bill is not only about America's future,
but the continued relevance of the Republican Party as the party to rule and run
the nation.

The Senate, by opening the door to U.S. citizenship for millions of illegal
aliens, has cheapened something Americans used to consider priceless. That the
Senate would put on a path to U.S. citizenship people who, only a month ago,
were marching under Mexican flags is a manifestation of national decline.

In 1963, as Churchill was approaching death, a debate was held in our country
and Congress on whether that friend and ally in World War II should be granted
U.S. citizenship, an honor previously accorded only to the French hero of the
American Revolution, Lafayette.

That is how we treasured citizenship then. But like the dollar and much else, it
has been badly depreciated under this generation.

In its decision whether to accept or reject the Senate amnesty-guest worker
plan, the Republican House -- which rejected that course last December -- will
define itself and the GOP. To the nation, it will be seen as either an
independent House to be respected and re-elected as the only people's House in
this capital city, or it will be seen as but a tool and rubber stamp of the
White House and Senate.

PATRICK J. BUCHANAN is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              373 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 2, 2006 Friday

Additional `Letters to the Editor'

LENGTH: 3354 words


NOTE: The following letters are unedited and reflect only the views of the
author.

Congressman Richard Pombo should be resoundly defeated as the Republican
candidate for the House of Representatives in the 11th District of California.
Since 1992 he has ill served our district.

His anti immigrant stance in a community with a large migrant population is
atrocious. (Imagine, voting for the House Immigration Bill that partly states if
you give aid and comfort to an immigrant that is ill or injured you could be
subject to a felony conviction.) His connections to the crook Abrmoff and the
taking of his gambling connection blood money are astounding. His linkage with
Indian Gambling connections and money to buy his votes and influence (in a
district that has no Indian Gambling) is damnable. His anti environmental
postures and his policies to weaken environmental laws are scandalous. His
connections with the Tom Delay greedy gang of thieves are incontrovertible. His
being deemed "one of the ten most corrupt members of the House of
Representatives" by the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics is blemish that
won't wash out.

And there is much more that is too putrid for this family paper. Mr. Pombo is a
bad apple that is corrupt to the core. How can anyone with an ounce of humanity
and judicial thinking possibility consider voting for him? Please, retire him
back to his Tracy ranch.

Roy Jimenez, San Jose

President Bush reportedly expressed support last week for a plan that would let
Israel draw borders for itself and a Palestinian State if the Middle East peace
talks remain stalled. Such an action is clearly intended to allow Israel to
annex large chunks of Palestine. Our president's action is illegal and is
morally wrong.

No people on earth would accept such a fragmentation and effective disappearance
of their own country, and neither will the Palestinians. Like other nations,
Palestinians have a right to freedom and independence, including the land on
which to exercise these rights, all of which have long been recognized by the
international community.

When and how a negotiated peace can be attained in the current political climate
in Palestine? The answer: NOW is the time to talk peace with the United States
serving as an EVEN-HANDED partner. The Palestinian government repeatedly asked
that peace talks be resumed with both Israel and Palestine recognizing each
other simultaneously, and that peace talks be founded on the principles of
international law, and aimed at finding a solution that is fair, just and
acceptable to both groups.

The Palestinian people freely and democratically elected the Hamas Palestinian
government, and this government has proved that it is not corrupt and that it
can govern democratically if we just let it. Our government should be a catalyst
helping both sides achieve a just solution. We should stop being a "cheer
leader" for Israel's illegal policy of forever forcibly seizing Palestinian land
and rendering the creation of a Palestinian State a mere empty gesture.

A just solution is not a "utopia;" it is actually attainable once Israel
abandons its expansionist policy. Such a solution must have the basic
requirements both sides want:

A two-state solution, Israel and Palestine, are to live side by side and as
neighbors in peace, to normalize human life in the region, and to fully
cooperate in economic and cultural domains. Doing so will help Israel and
Palestine realize their potential to be a gateway between Western and Arab
economies for economic and business development, global trade and exchange.

A free, viable and democratic Palestinian State is to be established in the West
Bank and Gaza. Any adjustment of the borders to annex some settlements to
Israel, including those in the Jerusalem area, shall be minimal and shall be
based on fair exchange of land by both sides, Israel and Palestine.

The two states are to start negotiations on the fate of the Palestinian refugees
and their properties in Israel. The Palestinian refugees should be encouraged to
accept fair compensation, settle in the Palestinian State with the vacated
settlements be used as a part of a compensation package Israel is to pay the
Palestinians for the forcible seizure of their properties in Israel. A limited
number of the Palestinian refugees, the number to be decided by negotiations,
shall be allowed to go back to their properties in Israel.

Jerusalem is the Holy City for three faiths and is important historically,
nationally, and culturally for the two people. It can and should be the city of
peace. The political solution for Jerusalem should not lead to its physical
division. The city shall remain physically united. The 1967 West Jerusalem shall
be the capital of Israel. The pre 1967 East Jerusalem shall be the capital of
Palestine. All citizens of both States and visitors shall have unlimited and
unhindered freedom of access and worship at all the Holy Sites.

Upon the implementation of the above points, both the Israeli and Palestinian
electorate will be asked to vote on acceptance of the agreement.

The majority of the Israeli and Palestinian people are weary of conflict, and
will vote "Yes" on the above recommendations. Both people will, in due time,
start to live their lives as neighbors and as friends.

Vic Zikoor, San Jose

In response to Mr. Zeid's opinion piece I should like to suggest I agree in
principle the Israelis and Palestinians should work toward a two state solution.

However given the turmoil between Abbas, Fatah and Hamas it's clearly premature
and naive to suggest negotiations should commence now. There is no one among the
Palestinians able to deliver an agreement.

Hamas while democratically elected has repeatedly stated it will never recognize
Israel, nor it's right to exist, even if Israel returns to pre-'67 borders.
Indeed Hamas, along with the PLO, maintains a charter calling for the
destruction of Israel. Let's not forget this is the very reason the US and EU
cut off aid to the Palestinians

Until they alter their charter and publicly proclaim a willingness to accept
Israel's right to exist, they cannot be seen as a genuine peace partner.

While I agree Israel shouldn't be constructing the separation wall east of the
green line, let us not forget what the central issue is and has always been -
the security of Israel.

As one diplomat once said "...if the Arabs laid down their weapons, there would
be no more violence. If Israel laid down their weapons, there would be no more
Israel."

Dan Calic, Menlo Park

Karyn Sinunu was an honor student at Aragon High School when I was a teacher
there.

Later she was graduated from Mills College in Oakland. My wife and two of my
daughters attended Mills College, and I know that Mills College is a special
place that imbues its graduates with a sense of purpose to make the world a
better place, and to do so with the highest principles and integrity.

Karyn Sinunu and I both went on to different evening law schools at different
times after Aragon High School, one of the top acdemic high schools in the
state. (One year that I was there, Aragon High School had the top male and the
top female graduate in the state of California.) Both Karyn Sinunu and I know
the additional desire and dedication needed to attend evening law school, while
working full time, raising a family, studying for, and passing the California
Bar Exam (which Karyn did on her first attempt).

Karyn Sinunu's campaign literature states that she is "tough but fair." I know
that she goes beyond that. She is inner-directed to see that justice is done.
She is thoughtful. She is determined to be fair at all costs. She has been
cooperative and non-defensive with the reporters that have contributed to the
San Jose Mercury New articles that have been written about the District Attorney
3/8s Office.

The other candidates may be qualified, but their qualifications pale in
comparison to Karyn Sinunu's qualifications, her 20 years of Deputy and
Assistant District Attorney experience and her demonstrated ability as the Chief
Assistant District Attorney in which she supervises 187 assistant and deputy
district attorneys and the bureau of investigations. Chief Assistant District
Attorney Karyn Sinunu is a very, very special person and is by far the strongest
candidate.

We need Karyn Sinunu's leadership as the District Attorney of Santa Clara
County.

Tom Harney, San Jose

The article of 31st May, 2006 on Earth Warming by Paul Krugman is a masterpiece
of half-truths.

Yes, the earth is warming; it has been warming gradually over the last 5000
years. Thank goodness it has been warming, or we in Santa Clara County would be
living on ice fields and those verdant acres of agriculture in this valley would
be non-existent; buried under shields of ice.

During the last ice age, massive mountains of ice covered both the North Pole
and South Pole; with footlings of ice spreading out over what is today the
United States. These ice footlings extended as far south as Iowa. In California,
glaciers reached as far south as Yosemite National Park.

The earth warming [solar energy] melted the glaciers without help of greenhouse
gases from the exhaust of automobiles.

About 1975, U.S. News and World Reports and Time Magazine were running articles
about evidence for the coming ice age.

If you would solve the greenhouse earth-warming problem, just cancel all federal
research grants on this subject. No scientist, on a federal grant to research
global warming, is going to submit evidence that there is no global warming. He
would soon be out of a job.

All in all, be thankful there is, and has been, global warming! Otherwise we'd
be living on glacial ice; uncomfortably cold and food very scarce.

Joseph G. McCormack, Gilroy

Wow. Unless she has some secret plan I don't yet understand, Condi bit and the
Iranian people are the worse off for it.

Mr. Ahmadinejad finds Western Civilization "arrogant" because we believe that
humans are capable of living their lives morally without the benefit of living
under shar'ia law. Further, he thinks we're losing against a resurgent Islam
(with him as the Caliph), which is why he thinks he can get away with
foreshadowing the end of the "Zionist entity."

There is no way he will negotiate with us in good faith, he is commanded by his
"faith" (and his "faith" is his primary reference in life) to offer us Islam and
then, should we reject it, to battle us until we acquiesce. To his eyes, the
EU3's fecklessness is seen as decay and corruption, inviting only more
aggressive behavior. There is, in his mind, no downside to ignoring the UN and
the IAEA.

I appreciate that the world is at a point where defiance from tyrants motivates
all kinds of untoward behavior from our "friends," but our joining the 3 prior
years of pointless jawing will not change the outcome an iota. We're all just
going through the motions, and the only questions left will come to this: will
the US bomb the Iranian nukes once all this window dressing is proven to be a
chimera? And will the rest of the world (including our State Department but
excluding Israel) rise up in rightous indignation at the violation of the
`soverignity` of the Iranian mullahs?

Ron Berti, Cupertino

I'm tired of the Mercury News, and every other news organization in the U.S.
publishing the incorrect argument by immigration rights activists that, "We are
a nation of immigrants." The correct terminology should be stated that we WERE a
nation of immigrants. It's true that this country was founded by immigrants from
all over the world from the arrival of Columbus in 1492, the pilgrims in 1620 on
the Mayflower, and all those who came after them until it was decided that we
needed a country of our own with laws of our own. Those immigrants called
themselves Americans and set forth policies and laws regarding those who would
be allowed to come here and call themselves Americans. Just because we WERE
founded by immigrants, does not mean this country is an open door looking for
more immigrants to openly come and call this country home by whatever means they
see necessary. The immigrants who came here until laws were established, and
those who legally came after have set forth a set of laws for those that follow.
Obviously immigration rights activists and the invaders who they protect have
trouble seeing this and want to justify their hostile assault on our country
with the soft argument that, "We are a nation of immigrants" have it wrong. We
WERE a nation of immigrants, now we're a nation of Americans; Americans who have
set laws and rules for those who wish for the privilege of becoming an American
to follow.

Jonathan Thomson, Morgan Hill

As a resident physician who is on the front lines of taking care of patients at
Santa Clara Valley Medical Center every day, we must have the passage of Measure
A in order to continue our basic services. Thousands of patients depend on the
care we provide and Measure A would assist us greatly. Without it, we are at
risk of providing sub-standard care and not having the necessary resources to
care for our county's residents.

Aman Kaur, San Jose

I work as a resident physician at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, and am
writing to provide support for how important Measure A is. Our job profile
describes working for the poor and uninsured. That is to say, we provide basic
health care to the people who need it most. Despite its altruism, this
description avoids how hard we actually work, and how overworked we are. On top
of that, budget cuts force us to work even longer hours. This has lead to
patient wait times of many hours due to low staffing and inadequate resources.
Pending budget cuts will only make the situation worse. Measure A is a critical
step in keeping SCVMC healthy.

Sonal Jain, San Jose

As a resident physician at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, I support Measure
A. People need better health care 7/8 especially those who cannot afford it.
SCVMC is the only service station for a population of more than two million. The
hospital needs to grow with this population.

Viswan S. Nacu, San Jose

I am a resident physician at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center. Working at the
hospital, with excellent staff and patients who are truly in need, is the most
important work of my life. Frequent problems that impact patient care and
ultimately the health of the entire county community occur because of an already
tight budget. Pending budget cuts threaten a precarious balance between "the
bottom line" and providing high-quality medical care to our most needy county
residents. Passing Measure A will be a critical step in keeping all of Santa
Clara County healthy and productive.

Jessica Nijmeh, San Jose

I am voting for Measure A for 3 reasons:

1) The County's urgent health, social services and transportation problems can
be greatly aided by an additional half cent county sales tax provided by Measure
A.

2) My confidence in our Board of Supervisors, particularly Supervisor Kniss, to
supervise the funding. Supervisor Kniss's experience and historic commitment to
medical and social services is noteworthy. Presently, she chairs the Health and
Hospital System Committee and oversees health care for the uninsured and
indigent. She is a strong supporter of health clinics, the mobile mammogram
program and dental vans.

Kniss has also actively supported programs dealing with transportation issues.
She successfully oversaw spending of the County's 1996 half cent sales tax for
traffic congestion relief and participated in the realization of the Highway
85/101 North interchange and the pavement management fund to repair streets and
potholes in Santa Clara County cities.

3) The third reason for my support is the inclusion of safeguards such as the
Citizen's Oversight Committee and annual audits to be prepared for the public.

Measure A is the product of 2 years of open discussions with the public,
compromise among community leadership and understanding of the urgent needs by
the County's medical institutions, social services and transportation
infrastructure.

Measure A's clear benefits deserve a "yes" vote on June 6!

Betty Meltzer, Palo Alto

Whoever said the news is always so tragic must not have read the news this week;
it is so comical. To encourage state election participation, an un-name Arizona
organization proposed entering people who voted in a state-wide one million
dollar lottery funded by unclaimed lottery winning. After tax, it is only five
hundred thousand, and the state put another five hundred thousand in its coffer.
This sounds like a win-win proposition; however, the legislator is still mum on
this. I know this sounded ludicrous, stay tune. There must be some reason for
this proposal; who can make it up?

Is our democracy getting stale that we have to bribe voters? We watched Iraqi
gleefully going to the poll. Sure, they don't have to weight through the voter
information package or get through our painful registration process. Be honest
to yourself, when was the last time you read through that package of information
in the mail? Furthermore, do you understand what you read, then make an informed
decision? The answer is scary; the future of our country is in your hand. It
takes a lot of time and effort to go through those information, and I wonder
even lawyers who wrote them truly understand them. I am encroaching on the
American Education System, so I should stop now. We are going to court to decide
whether to let students who failed the high school exit exam to graduate. This
is why we vote on the packaging and not the issues, that is if we bother to
registered. The government cannot make it less inconvenience for us to get
registered. Politicians pay more attention on their image than their content.
With all the government is doing to us, Americans are getting cynical.

On a lighter side of the news, Nike is teaming with Apple iPod to connect
microprocessors in shoes to communicate with iPods. Fitness information can be
uploaded, so you and your trainer can keep track of your progress plus a myriad
of other functions. Technology is so wonderful This happens when the government
is monitoring citizens' communication to fight terrorism. Is the government
going to monitor those communication too? NSA is getting too busy; they need a
more powerful computer.

While we are on the subject of voting, American just voted for its "American
Idol," a television show where contestants showcase their talents and American
vote for their favorite contestant via Internet or phone. Over 63 million votes
were cast, more than any president in history of our country has received. I
took a double take to digest this convoluted sensational statistic. Rather than
doing an in depth data analysis, which I do not want to put in the effort; I
tried to conjecture the message whoever dug up this statistic is trying to tell
us. We are more concerned who is a better singer than who would be a better
president? This explains why all our presidents try to entertain us and most
politicians are show-person.

Consider the demographic, teenagers may not be mature enough to know the issues
that they are voting, but at least they vote; a vote for lowering the voting
age. But, do we, mature American fully understand the issues or vote or bother
to register to vote? Idol voters voted via phone line and the Internet;
electronic mediums are not secure. Remember Florida? If American Idol voting
system is tainted, I foresee bigger upheaval in this country. Registrars across
the county are working hard on securing the voting system; technology to the
rescue again. Soon we will be able to vote at the convenient of our schedule.
People tune in to see American Idol, then voted, so networking programming
schedule is convenience? If that were the case, time-shifting technologies would
be deemed obsolete. The show has a several hour window to tabulate the vote, but
we have a whole day to go to the poll. Do what I do, get permanent absentee
ballot; I vote when I was XXXYYY, then put it in the mail.

On and all, American Democracy, government, and voting is such a comedy, and
this is truly a tragedy.

Kin Allen, San Bruno

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              374 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 3, 2006 Saturday

Big rise in arrests of immigrants

BYLINE: Marisa Taylor, Knight Ridder

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 222 words


In recent months, newly created teams of federal agents have arrested thousands
of illegal immigrants who have lived and worked in the United States for years
without interference. Most have been deported immediately.

Since October, 13,089 immigrants have been detained, a more than 60 percent
increase from the same period in 2004.

Immigrant advocates called the sweeps excessive and heavy-handed, while
supporters of tougher enforcement said that even more must to be done.

``Whenever we do any sort of enforcement action, we get praise and criticism,''
said Dean Boyd of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

Since October, the number of fugitive-search teams assigned to finding
immigrants where they live has increased from 18 to 38. The agency plans 14 more
teams by the end of September.

``It's a higher priority,'' said John Torres, the director of ICE's detention
and removal operations.

Between October and mid-February, ICE agents arrested 620 people in Northern
California and Bakersfield. Of them, 400 had criminal records, according to
Virginia Kice, an ICE official in Laguna Niguel.

Torres said officers were not arbitrarily arresting people off the streets, but
were targeting immigrants who had been ordered deported after exhausting all
appeals.

Mercury News Staff Writer Jesse Mangaliman contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              375 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

Which Colbert for commencement? Both

LENGTH: 1763 words


Comedian Stephen Colbert said he wasn't sure whether Knox College wanted the
real person or his satirical television persona when he was booked to deliver
the 2006 commencement address.

The host of Comedy Central's ``The Colbert Report'' decided to address the 250
graduates Saturday with a bit of his TV character -- a pompous, clueless
commentator -- ``who says things with a straight face that he doesn't mean,''
Colbert said.

He went straight for the hot-button issue of illegal immigrants, telling the
crowd of about 4,500 he knew what people would say.

`` `Steve, Steve, immigrants built America.' But here's the thing, it's built
now,'' Colbert said.

The commentator's suggestions for securing the U.S.-Mexico border began with
fences. He quickly upped effectiveness of his security plan with moats, fiery
moats and fiery moats with fire-proof crocodiles.

Colbert said the border with Canada also has to be secure so Canadians cannot
bring their ``skunky beer'' into the country.

He said even the East and West coasts aren't safe because immigrants can swim,
but he offered a plan: a dome built over the entire United States.

At the end of his speech, the real Colbert offered a bit of wisdom. He told the
graduates to say ``yes'' whenever they can.

``Cynics always say no,'' he said. ``Saying yes leads to knowledge. So as long
as you are able, say yes.''

`The Break-Up' kicks out `X-Men'

Supported by real-life romantic splits and hookups, Jennifer Aniston and Vince
Vaughn's ``The Break-Up'' pulled an upset over the mutant world of the
``X-Men.''

``The Break-Up'' debuted more strongly than expected with $38.1 million to take
over as the No. 1 weekend movie from ``X-Men: The Last Stand,'' which slipped to
second place with $34.35 million, according to studio estimates Sunday.

Aniston's split from Brad Pitt last year and her reported romance that began
with Vaughn while filming ``The Break-Up'' helped keep the movie in the public
eye.

``They're always in the press,'' said Nikki Rocco, head of distribution for
Universal, which released ``The Break-Up.'' ``Every time you turn around,
somebody's talking about Jennifer, or Jennifer and Brad, or Jennifer and Vince.
It's not why we made the movie, though.''

``The Break-Up'' pulled in about $10 million more than Rocco had expected.

After putting in a record four-day debut of $122.9 million over Memorial Day
weekend, 20th Century Fox's third ``X-Men'' movie tumbled. The movie's domestic
gross dropped a steep 67 percent from its Friday-Sunday haul the first weekend.

Still, ``X-Men'' raised its total to a whopping $175.7 million in just 10 days,
a mark it took ``X2: X-Men United'' 18 days to reach. Bruce Snyder, head of
distribution for Fox, said the film should top out at $240 million to $250
million, beating the $157 million take for the first ``X-Men'' and the $215
million return for ``X2.''

The huge decline in the second weekend was typical given how many people saw the
movie over the holiday weekend, Snyder said.

``I'm not shocked at that drop,'' Snyder said.

DreamWorks Animation's cartoon comedy ``Over the Hedge'' held up well, placing
third with $20.6 million for a three-week total of $112.4 million.

Sony's ``The Da Vinci Code'' was No. 4 with $19.3 million, lifting its
three-week domestic gross to $172.7 million. Worldwide, the Tom Hanks film
adapted from Dan Brown's best-seller has grossed $581 million and should hit at
least $750 million globally, said Rory Bruer, Sony head of distribution.

In its second weekend, the Al Gore documentary ``An Inconvenient Truth'' went
into wider release and broke into the top 10 with $1.33 million, even though it
was playing in just 77 theaters.

Released by Paramount Classics, the film averaged an impressive $17,292 a
theater, compared to $12,410 in 3,070 cinemas for ``The Break-Up.''

Chronicling the former vice president's campaign to educate people about the
perils of global warming, ``An Inconvenient Truth'' expands to more theaters
over the next two weekends.

``It's breakups and global warming that I think really are interesting people
now,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Exhibitor
Relations.

Overall business rose slightly, with the top 12 movies taking in $128.9 million,
up 1.6 percent from the same weekend last year.

After an 8 percent drop in movie attendance last year, Hollywood is positioned
for a solid summer. Attendance is running about 1 percent ahead of last year's,
with what looks like a solid crop of blockbusters still to come, including this
Friday's animated comedy ``Cars,'' from Disney and Pixar, and the Warner Bros.
adventure ``Superman Returns'' on June 30.

Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters,
according to Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. Final figures will be released Monday.

1. ``The Break-Up,'' $38.1 million.

2. ``X-Men: The Last Stand,'' $34.35 million.

3. ``Over the Hedge,'' $20.6 million.

4. ``The Da Vinci Code,'' $19.3 million.

5. ``Mission: Impossible III,'' $4.67 million.

6. ``Poseidon,'' $3.4 million.

7. ``RV,'' $3.3 million.

8. ``See No Evil,'' $2 million.

9. ``An Inconvenient Truth,'' $1.33 million.

10. ``Just My Luck,'' $825,000.

A whole lot of Stoppard at Lincoln Center

It's a theater event of epic proportions: a trilogy of plays by Tom Stoppard
featuring 30 actors portraying more than 70 characters and lasting more than
nine hours.

Lincoln Center Theater will devote much of its 2006-2007 season to ``The Coast
of Utopia,'' the collective title for a trio of plays by the author of ``The
Real Thing'' and ``Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.'' ``Utopia'' focuses
on a group of 19th century Russian intellectuals, including novelist Ivan
Turgenev and radical theorist Alexander Herzen, over a turbulent 30-year period.

The mammoth production, directed by Jack O'Brien, starts with ``Voyage,''
opening Nov. 5; moves on to ``Shipwreck,'' Dec. 21, and finishes with
``Salvage,'' opening Feb. 15. The engagement at the Vivian Beaumont Theater ends
March 11.

Casting will be announced later, Philip Rinaldi, a spokesman for the non-profit
Lincoln Center Theater, said Sunday.

During the final three-and-a-half weeks of the run, theatergoers will be able to
see the plays in succession -- including three dates (Feb. 24, March 3 and March
10) when all three can be viewed in one day.

``The Coast of Utopia'' had its world premiere at the National Theatre in London
in 2002.

Uecker seeks protection from woman

Hall of Fame announcer Bob Uecker filed a restraining order against a woman he
contends has been harassing him for years and last week confronted him at a
hotel pool over his refusal to assist her charity work.

A hearing is scheduled June 15, according to the Wisconsin Circuit Court Web
site. Uecker, the voice of the Milwaukee Brewers for more than 35 years, filed a
harassment injunction against Ann E. Ladd on Thursday, as first reported by the
investigative Web site The Smoking Gun.

In court filings, the 71-year-old former player said Ladd has been bothering him
for six or seven years by sending unsolicited gifts, driving around his home in
Wisconsin and contacting him in various cities.

``In the past year, however, Ladd's pattern of harassment has escalated in
frequency and intensity, and has resulted in repeated and serious invasions of
my personal privacy,'' he said.

A message left at Ladd's home on Sunday was not immediately returned. Uecker was
announcing the Brewers' game against Washington and was unavailable for comment.

He said the 45-year-old woman from Prospect Heights, Ill., recently approached
him on what she said was a charity project involving a manuscript about him.

She persisted, and he said he asked her to leave him alone. The next night at
the stadium, Uecker said members of Major League Baseball security and the
Pittsburgh police told her not to contact him. She said she didn't realize there
was a problem and would stop.

In April, Uecker said Ladd appeared at his autograph session in Milwaukee. She
eventually was led away by Miller Park security, documents said. Several weeks
later, she accused Uecker in a letter of having a ``sneering dislike towards
me.''

``Both in your broadcast position and somewhat ambassador role, you interact
publicly with many people, yet disdainfully I am met with your recurrent
coldness,'' the letter said.

Uecker contends she has made reservations at hotels he has previously used when
the Brewers travel to Texas, Chicago and Pittsburgh in the coming months.

Uecker won a World Series ring with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1964 and played
in Philadelphia and Atlanta before retiring in 1967. He starred in commercials
and the television sitcom ``Mr. Belvedere.''

`Survivor' winner suspended from job

A former winner on ``Survivor'' has been suspended from his job at the Ohio
transportation department after an investigation concluded he took an
unauthorized leave of absence.

The agency suspended Chris Daugherty of South Vienna for 20 days without pay
Friday. Investigators said he used a bogus medical excuse to leave work for a
month last fall to attend a promotional tour for the CBS reality TV show in
Europe.

Daugherty, 35, initially requested leave to go on the trip but was repeatedly
denied because he had used all but 29 hours of his vacation days, sick leave and
personal time, officials said.

A message seeking comment was left at Daugherty's home Sunday afternoon. Last
month, he said stress from his job and his contract with CBS made the time off
necessary and that the leave of absence was unpaid.

Daugherty won $1 million in 2004 for ``Survivor: Vanuatu -- Islands of Fire,''
but returned to his $34,000-a-year job, working roads in central Ohio for the
steady paycheck and benefits.

Oprah really becoming member of jet set

Oprah Winfrey is about to receive the custom-built, $42 million executive jet
she ordered from Bombardier Aerospace, a Canadian newspaper reported.

The talk-show host's production company, Harpo, is paying for the Global Express
XRS jet, which will have seating for about 10 passengers, the Montreal newspaper
La Presse reported.

A spokesman for Bombardier told the French-language daily that Winfrey's plane
would be ``typically equipped'' for a jet with such a price tag.

The plane will have leather interior and designer fixtures for the bathroom and
galley, among other high-end trimmings.

Bombardier's line of executive jets have proved popular with the rich and
famous. Director Steven Spielberg, computer mogul Bill Gates and Cirque du
Soleil founder Guy Laliberte all reportedly have models of the Global Express
jet.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              376 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

Advertising for dialogue;
CAMPAIGN AIMS TO GET PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT RELATIONS BETWEEN U.S. AND MEXICO

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 901 words


A provocative, bilingual advertising campaign, seen recently on billboards,
buses and bus shelters around San Jose and Gilroy, is urging South Bay residents
to ponder simply: Mexicans & Americans Thinking Together. Mexicanos y Americanos
Pensando Juntos.

The spare blue-and-white posters, also seen in black-and-white dioramas at
Mineta San Jose International Airport, are the latest fodder in the raging
national debate about immigration reform.

Instead of focusing on National Guard soldiers amassing at border walls, the
advertisement blitz is asking people to participate in an online dialogue about
relations between Mexico and the United States. The goal is to shift the
conversation to ways the two countries may help the other solve their mutual
problems -- rather than focusing on the unknown future of an estimated 12
million undocumented immigrants in the United States.

``This whole immigration issue is really about how we don't really understand
each other,'' said Lionel Sosa, the retired advertising guru from Texas who is
spearheading the project, ``and how we need to work together as citizens of two
countries.'' Since its launch on Cinco de Mayo, www.matt.org, a non-profit,
non-partisan group based in Texas, has logged a half-million visits and
registered 30,000 members, Sosa said. Most of the traffic is in the discussion
forum, where people vent, Sosa said, taking on a wide range of topics about
Mexico and the United States.

Immigration is the topic of the moment, but the site's goal is to tackle other
matters critical to both countries -- trade and the economy, the environment,
society and culture -- issues, he said, at the heart of the current immigration
debate.

``Let's do a think-tank for the common people, not just for academics and
philosophers, where people can put their ideas on the table, where they can make
a difference,'' Sosa said.

But opponents of illegal immigration, like San Jose small-business owner Roberta
Allen, said the present issue with Mexico is clear-cut.

``The reason we have a problem with Mexico right now is they're sending so many
illegals here,'' said Allen, the San Jose organizer of a counter-protest to the
May 1 ``Day Without Immigrants'' national rally. She has not seen the ads.

``As far as legal immigrants, there's no problem,'' Allen said.

The Web site and the advertising blitz are the brainchild of a half-dozen
wealthy businessmen from San Antonio, Mexicans and Americans, who felt that in
the current political climate, there was little discussion about cross-border
relations. For now, the backers of matt.org have declined to be identified or be
interviewed.

The advertising campaign in English and Spanish, which includes the posters and
billboards, and radio and TV spots, has been the vehicle to draw people to the
Web site.

In all, the ads are placed in 18 bus shelters in San Jose and on 40 buses, 15
billboards and three airport dioramas.

San Jose delivery truck driver Jose Renteriah, 50, who sat recently under a bus
shelter on Santa Clara Street near 20th Street, eye-level with one of the
outdoor posters, praised the campaign's goal of a dialogue, but was skeptical of
its impact.

``Yeah, talking about this is good,'' said Renteriah, who has not visited the
Web site. ``But there will always be racism. To me that's the problem.''

Sosa said ideas gleaned from matt.org would be converted into policy proposals,
academic papers or perhaps the seeds of congressional legislation. For example,
one member suggested car passports to simplify the process of legal crossings
for people doing business and residents of both countries. Another idea that
emerged from the online discussion was development of senior homes in Mexico
catering to American retirees.

``It's a forum only for solutions,'' said the 67-year-old Sosa, who founded the
country's largest Latino advertising agency.

The founders of matt.org also hope to launch a for-profit component,
mattbiz.com, catering to business and trade between the U.S. and Mexico, Sosa
said. Details of this venture are still being worked out.

The three-city $3 million advertising campaign was launched on Cinco de Mayo and
will continue to July 4 in San Jose, San Antonio and Chicago. The cities were
chosen for their large populations of Mexican-Americans. In San Jose, almost
one-third of the city's population is Latino, a large majority of which, 84
percent, is Mexican, according to the U.S. Census.

``It makes sense that Mexican-Americans would want to be a part of this
conversation in a different way, that they'd feel the need for separate space,''
said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network in San Jose. ``Because so much of the rhetoric is directed at
Mexico.''

Casillas said she heard one of the radio spots last week, and thought that
``it's exciting to see something being done, that there's a group working on
this particular issue.''

Bruno Figueroa, consul general of the Mexican Consulate in San Jose, said a few
weeks ago he saw the ads in the San Jose Mercury News and a few Spanish-language
newspapers. He said he also saw the billboards.

``I was positively surprised,'' Figueroa said. ``The kind of dialogue that this
association is promoting does not exist. It's very different from all the talk
about building walls and having troops at the border.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              377 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 5, 2006 Monday

Advertising for dialogue;
CAMPAIGN AIMS TO GET PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT RELATIONS BETWEEN U.S. AND MEXICO

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


A provocative, bilingual advertising campaign, seen recently on billboards,
buses and bus shelters around San Jose and Gilroy, is urging South Bay residents
to ponder simply: Mexicans & Americans Thinking Together. Mexicanos y Americanos
Pensando Juntos.

The spare blue-and-white posters, also seen in black-and-white dioramas at
Mineta San Jose International Airport, are the latest fodder in the raging
national debate about immigration reform.

Instead of focusing on National Guard soldiers amassing at border walls, the
advertisement blitz is asking people to participate in an online dialogue about
relations between Mexico and the United States. The goal is to shift the
conversation to ways the two countries may help the other solve their mutual
problems -- rather than focusing on the unknown future of an estimated 12
million undocumented immigrants in the United States.

``This whole immigration issue is really about how we don't really understand
each other,'' said Lionel Sosa, the retired advertising guru from Texas who is
spearheading the project, ``and how we need to work together as citizens of two
countries.'' Since its launch on Cinco de Mayo, www.matt.org, a non-profit,
non-partisan group based in Texas, has logged a half-million visits and
registered 30,000 members, Sosa said. Most of the traffic is in the discussion
forum, where people vent, Sosa said, taking on a wide range of topics about
Mexico and the United States.

Immigration is the topic of the moment, but the site's goal is to tackle other
matters critical to both countries -- trade and the economy, the environment,
society and culture -- issues, he said, at the heart of the current immigration
debate.

``Let's do a think-tank for the common people, not just for academics and
philosophers, where people can put their ideas on the table, where they can make
a difference,'' Sosa said.

But opponents of illegal immigration, like San Jose small-business owner Roberta
Allen, said the present issue with Mexico is clear-cut.

``The reason we have a problem with Mexico right now is they're sending so many
illegals here,'' said Allen, the San Jose organizer of a counter-protest to the
May 1 ``Day Without Immigrants'' national rally. She has not seen the ads.

``As far as legal immigrants, there's no problem,'' Allen said.

The Web site and the advertising blitz are the brainchild of a half-dozen
wealthy businessmen from San Antonio, Mexicans and Americans, who felt that in
the current political climate, there was little discussion about cross-border
relations. For now, the backers of matt.org have declined to be identified or be
interviewed.

The advertising campaign in English and Spanish, which includes the posters and
billboards, and radio and TV spots, has been the vehicle to draw people to the
Web site.

In all, the ads are placed in 18 bus shelters in San Jose and on 40 buses, 15
billboards and three airport dioramas.

San Jose delivery truck driver Jose Renteriah, 50, who sat recently under a bus
shelter on Santa Clara Street near 20th Street, eye-level with one of the
outdoor posters, praised the campaign's goal of a dialogue, but was skeptical of
its impact.

``Yeah, talking about this is good,'' said Renteriah, who has not visited the
Web site. ``But there will always be racism. To me that's the problem.''

Sosa said ideas gleaned from matt.org would be converted into policy proposals,
academic papers or perhaps the seeds of congressional legislation. For example,
one member suggested car passports to simplify the process of legal crossings
for people doing business and residents of both countries. Another idea that
emerged from the online discussion was development of senior homes in Mexico
catering to American retirees.

``It's a forum only for solutions,'' said the 67-year-old Sosa, who founded the
country's largest Latino advertising agency.

The founders of matt.org also hope to launch a for-profit component,
mattbiz.com, catering to business and trade between the U.S. and Mexico, Sosa
said. Details of this venture are still being worked out.

The three-city $3 million advertising campaign was launched on Cinco de Mayo and
will continue to July 4 in San Jose, San Antonio and Chicago. The cities were
chosen for their large populations of Mexican-Americans. In San Jose, almost
one-third of the city's population is Latino, a large majority of which, 84
percent, is Mexican, according to the U.S. Census.

``It makes sense that Mexican-Americans would want to be a part of this
conversation in a different way, that they'd feel the need for separate space,''
said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services, Immigrant Rights and
Education Network in San Jose. ``Because so much of the rhetoric is directed at
Mexico.''

Casillas said she heard one of the radio spots last week, and thought that
``it's exciting to see something being done, that there's a group working on
this particular issue.''

Bruno Figueroa, consul general of the Mexican Consulate in San Jose, said a few
weeks ago he saw the ads in the San Jose Mercury News and a few Spanish-language
newspapers. He said he also saw the billboards.

``I was positively surprised,'' Figueroa said. ``The kind of dialogue that this
association is promoting does not exist. It's very different from all the talk
about building walls and having troops at the border.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              378 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 8, 2006 Thursday

National and Washington news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 214 words

NEBRASKA

Bush urges immigrants to learn English, history

President Bush urged immigrants Wednesday to learn English and history and
civics with the goal of ``helping us remain one nation under God.''

On the second day of a trip to sell his immigration bill, Bush also ordered the
creation of a ``task force on new Americans'' to expand initiatives to help
immigrants integrate into U.S. society.

NEW YORK

Clinton blasts Coulter over attack on widows

New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton accused commentator Ann Coulter of making a
``vicious, mean-spirited attack'' on outspoken Sept. 11 widows whom the TV
pundit described as ``self-obsessed.''

Coulter writes in a new book, ``Godless: The Church of Liberalism,'' that a
group of New Jersey widows whose husbands died at the World Trade Center act
``as if the terrorist attacks happened only to them.''

She also wrote, ``I've never seen people enjoying their husbands' deaths so
much.''

Clinton, who has felt Coulter's criticism over the years, responded Wednesday.

``Perhaps her book should have been called `Heartless,' '' the senator said. ``I
know a lot of the widows and family members who lost loved ones on 9/11. They
never wanted to be a member of a group that is defined by the tragedy of what
happened.''

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              379 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 13, 2006 Tuesday

U.S. consensus welcomes immigrants but wants security, too

BYLINE: Alberto R. Gonzales

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 716 words


There is a broad consensus in America on the issue of immigration. Extreme
views, however, are polarizing the debate and preventing mainstream voices from
being heard.

The American consensus reflects our character as a welcoming and a law-abiding
nation. As the country's chief law enforcement officer and the grandson of
immigrants, my life reflects that character. I have seen the American Dream
become a reality in my extended family, and I look forward to seeing my sons
live the dream as well.

To preserve the American Dream, Congress must show leadership at this decisive
moment in our history. Congress should affirm both our nation's interests and
its values: interests in security and economic prosperity, and values of
generosity and equal opportunity. In the arena of extreme positions and
polarizing rhetoric, these interests and values seem incompatible. In reality,
they are not.

Few supporters of the enforcement-only approach believe that America would be
better off with fewer immigrants, and few who believe that America should be a
welcoming nation believe that it should have lawless, open borders --
particularly after Sept. 11.

A demand for vigorous enforcement of our laws is -- and should be -- the
foundation of our national consensus. That means committing more resources and
personnel to the Border Patrol and leveraging the efforts of local law
enforcement and the National Guard at the border. Because of the president's
leadership, we are doing this.

Since Sept. 11, 2001, immigration prosecutions are up more than 40 percent.
Prosecutions for immigration crimes, which accounted for 20 percent of all
federal criminal prosecutions in 2000, accounted for fully 25 percent of all
prosecutions in 2005.

There is still much we can and must do. We are strengthening illegal immigration
enforcement within our nation's interior as well as at our borders. We are
developing and deploying new technologies to detect border violations and
introducing a tamper-proof identity card. We will send back the illegal
immigrants we catch and deter still more from attempting to enter illegally.

What we must keep in mind is that an illegal immigrant population of more than
11 million people will not depart overnight. It simply is unrealistic to believe
that we could make it so. How then do we make a seemingly impossible task a
manageable problem? The administration's efforts over the last five years are a
start, but comprehensive immigration reform is needed.

A temporary-worker program that meets the needs of our economy would establish
meaningful and realistic rules in an area where the law now is too often
ignored. Immigration would be channeled and controlled, so that it continues to
energize our nation but does not overwhelm us.

With comprehensive reform, both employees and employers know that there are
rules that must be followed. Illegal immigrants should have to pay a meaningful
penalty for breaking the law, including paying their taxes.

If they want to work and reside in the United States, and enjoy the benefits of
our great nation, they should learn English -- the language of opportunity.
Those who qualify under the law should be allowed to apply for the privilege of
citizenship.

Comprehensive reform would enhance our nation's security. If otherwise
law-abiding workers are allowed to enter and to work within the parameters of
the law, then law enforcement can focus on those who are more likely to pose a
genuine danger. This is not a question of trading the possible admission of
terrorists on the one hand for a booming construction industry on the other. The
quiet national consensus rightly calls for both security and a flourishing
economy.

I appreciate the passionate arguments of those who oppose comprehensive
immigration reform. I would urge, however, that legislators be both principled
and practical, and recognize that, for all the interest-group rhetoric, we all
have more in common on these issues than we often recognize -- most Americans,
after all, want a secure, law-abiding society and a confident, welcoming,
economically prosperous one.

The arguments have been made. Let Congress now show leadership and act for the
national interest at this time of choosing.

ALBERTO R. GONZALES is U.S. attorney general. He wrote this article for Knight
Ridder.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              380 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday

Scam artists are promising to deliver legalization through programs that don't
exist

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words


One day in May while waiting at a bus stop in Gilroy, two neatly dressed men
carrying briefcases struck up a conversation in Spanish with Miguel Hernandez.

The pair showed the 28-year-old immigrant from Guanajuato a stack of forms
labeled ``immigration'' in English, and spoke with confidence.

``They said there's going to be a new law to legalize people,'' said Hernandez,
who came to the United States illegally more than two years ago.

``They told me that they could fill out my forms for $1,500 to $1,800,'' he said
through a translator, ``and I could be the first to get my documentation.''

Fortunately, an English teacher Hernandez consulted told him what he suspected
all along.

``It's a scam,'' said Ed Sanchez, the former executive director of the Gilroy
Citizenship and Educational Program. ``And it doesn't surprise me in the least
that this happened.''

The congressional debate on the future of Hernandez and 12 million undocumented
immigrants is far from settled, but already, scam artists are preying on
immigrant vulnerabilities by promising to deliver legalization through programs
that don't exist.

``Whenever there's uncertainty,'' Santa Clara County Deputy District Attorney
Martha Donohoe said, ``there's people waiting to profit.''

Congressional or regulatory change on immigration, draw out notarios,
self-described immigration consultants, and sometimes unscrupulous attorneys,
who exact thousands of dollars from unsuspecting immigrants by promising what
they want the most but cannot legally have -- a green card, or permanent
residence in the United States.

Last year, a San Jose couple was sentenced to state prison after being convicted
of fraud and other charges in one of the Bay Area's largest immigration fraud
schemes. Noel Ramayrat and Mercedes Alcantara were convicted of stealing more
than $500,000 from hundreds of undocumented immigrants from Mexico and the
Philippines. They falsely promised, according to court records, jobs and
legalization to undocumented immigrants.

No fraud schemes have been reported in the United States since Congress started
discussing immigration reform, said Sharon Rummery, San Francisco spokeswoman
for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS).

High alert

Still, in Santa Clara County -- known for being tough on immigration fraud --
Donohoe said the county's consumer protection unit is paying close attention.
Early warnings are useful to immigrants, but they also warn scam artists that
prosecutors are on high alert.

``Not everyone knows how the legislative process works,'' said Lynette Parker,
supervising attorney at the Katharine & George Alexander Community Law Center, a
legal clinic in San Jose that helps immigrants. ``People are calling us and
asking, `Am I going to be eligible?' ''

Hernandez, who worked in a shoe factory in Guanajuato, said he knew that
Congress was still debating reform. ``What I've heard is they may approve the
law,'' he said wistfully. ``Of course that's what I hope.''

Although no amnesty program is in place, inquiries from immigrants are beginning
to flow in to advocates and lawyers across the country about the unsettled
legislation.

``It's something that needs to be taken seriously,'' said Crystal Williams,
deputy director for programs at the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington, D.C. ``We're keeping our members well-informed of immigration law.
They should all be aware that there is no amnesty.''

Sanchez has received about a dozen calls in the last month. Adriana Gonzalez,
immigration and citizenship program director at the Center for Employment
Training in San Jose, has received queries about ``what kind of form'' to submit
for legalization.

``Unfortunately in times like these,'' Gonzalez said, ``many unscrupulous people
take advantage of uninformed immigrants.''

False rumor

Immigrants have also called Sanchez to inquire about something they've heard:
that if they called their congressman, they'll get an orange card and they'll
get residence status. It's false.

The orange card refers to a proposal introduced by U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., that would expand the pool of undocumented immigrants who could apply
for legalization, if such a program were approved by Congress.

``Immigrant communities want to believe there's going to be something. There are
a lot of rumor mills,'' said Nora Privitera, a lawyer with the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center in San Francisco. ``It's a golden opportunity. It's a complete
rip-off.''

In April, the CIS issued the first government warning, sending it to immigrant
organizations around the country.

``If there's something you want very badly, and you're willing to pay money to
get in line,'' said Rummery of CIS, ``you're ripe to be exploited.''

``We're telling immigrants and everyone who works with them, keep your money in
your pocket,'' she said.

The one-paragraph warning is posted on the CIS Web site (www.uscis.gov). Sanchez
made copies and distributed them to English and citizenship classes in Gilroy.
Gonzalez did the same in San Jose.

Privitera and other immigration lawyers at the ILRC distributed fliers warning
of fraud in Spanish and English to immigrant communities. The same warning was
sent by e-mail to clients and other immigrant advocacy groups.

The Senate and the House of Representatives have yet to call a conference
committee to work out the differences between the competing immigration reform
bills. Their differences could not be more stark in their proposed solutions to
solving illegal immigration. The House wants to make it a crime to be an
undocumented immigrant. The Senate wants a path to legalization and eventually
to citizenship.

``We don't know what the final version is going to be,'' Parker said. ``We're
all sitting tight; we're all watching and waiting.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@mercurynews. com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              381 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 16, 2006 Friday

Immigrants understand how land of plenty is perpetuated

BYLINE: Salvador Bustamante

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 595 words


It is hard to really understand the doomsayers. Border vigilante Jim Gilchrist
warns immigrants are ruining our economy. Harvard Professor Samuel Huntington
declares we are losing our sense of who we are as a nation.

Distance and time can provide perspective. Perhaps it is easier as an immigrant
to appreciate California's remarkable prosperity. And perhaps it is easier a
generation after coming here to understand how so many in this great state have
come to enjoy the good life.

I grew up in the 1950s in Mexico City. On Sunday nights, my older brother and I
marveled at ``The Wonderful World of Disney.'' But it wasn't just television. My
mother regaled us with her stories of her younger years, when her father had
worked the railroads in Kansas City and Chicago. They had tasted a better life.

In 1962, my brother uprooted himself in hopes of earning enough in the United
States to take care of us. I followed in 1967. I could not tolerate the poverty.
Though I enjoyed reading, I was ashamed to go to school with secondhand shoes. I
left home so my mother would not have to sacrifice for me.

My brother and I worked in the fields, backbreaking labor. But we could, to the
amazement of the Anglo waitress, afford a ``steak sandwich'' for all our
co-workers at Sambo's. We were no longer desperately poor.

In 1979, I left the fields for Silicon Valley. I sought steady employment, first
as a social advocate and then as an organizer with the union. Though I still
dream in Spanish, I now am more American than I could have imagined. I married
an American woman. We own a house together. Our kids attend college. I achieved
the better life.

When my brother and I came, we came so our family might prosper. But we didn't
then, as poor campesinos,understand this prosperity we have come to know. The
Republican Right's doomsayers think as I did then. They think poor. I thought
one more mouth to feed doomed my family. They think more immigrants mean less
for everyone else. But this isn't Mexico. They just don't get America, much less
California.

Here we don't have to live within our means; here we can live beyond our dreams.
California's prosperity has always been made possible by newcomers, from across
the country and around the globe.

After World War II, our prosperity was made possible in large part by the hard
work of African-American and other U.S. migrants. From Kaiser Shipbuilding to
Lockheed Aerospace, from corporate farming to Hollywood studios, California
became an economic giant.

And today, again our prosperity is made possible in large part by newcomers, now
from Latin America and Asia. From Google to Genentech, California's new creative
economy is reshaping the way we live our lives.

The question, then as now, is how to assure that our prosperity is fully shared
by those who make it possible. Not just for immigrants, not just for those who
despite their hard work have been left behind, nor even just for those
middle-class families now falling behind, but for everyone. We need a broader
reform agenda.

Reforming immigration can be a first step. In the weeks ahead, Congress needs to
unequivocally reject the punitive and unrealistic approach espoused by House
Republicans.

And with the leadership of the Senate, they need to find a means to assure
sensible comprehensive reform that protects working people, reunites families
and makes our country more secure.

SALVADOR BUSTAMANTE is the first vice president for Service Employees
International Union (SEIU) Local 1877, also known as the janitors union. He
wrote this article for the Mercury News.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              382 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday

Ill-advised court decision strips rights from many foreigners

BYLINE: David Cole

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 842 words


``What will they do to us if there is another attack? Will they intern us like
they interned the Japanese?''

That is the most common question I get when speaking about counterterrorism
policies and civil liberties to Arab and Muslim audiences. Until Wednesday, I
assured them that such a response was unthinkable. The Japanese internment
during World War II is so widely recognized as morally, legally and ethically
wrong, I told them, that it could not possibly be repeated.

But after a decision by a federal judge in New York, I'm no longer confident
that I can be so reassuring. Dismissing a case challenging the detention of Arab
and Muslim foreign nationals in the weeks after Sept. 11, U.S. District Judge
John Gleeson ruled that it is constitutionally permissible to round up foreign
nationals on immigration charges based solely on their race, religion or country
of origin. What's more, he said they can be detained indefinitely, even after
they have agreed to be removed to their home countries.

In essence, he authorized a repeat of the Japanese internment -- as long as the
internment is limited to foreign nationals charged with visa violations (a group
that at last count numbered about 11 million people).

The case, Turkmen vs. Ashcroft, was filed on behalf of Arab and Muslim foreign
nationals swept up on the pretext of immigration charges in the weeks after
Sept. 11. Many initially were arrested on no charges at all -- only to be served
with immigration papers days, weeks or sometimes months later. All were arrested
in secret and hundreds were tried in closed hearings that even their family
members were not allowed to attend.

They were picked up on the slightest of suspicions. In one representative case,
according to the Justice Department's inspector general, the FBI arrested
several men on a tip that ``too many'' Middle Eastern men worked at a
convenience store down the street.

Many of the people arrested admitted that they had violated their visas and
agreed to leave the country, but they were kept locked up for months so that the
FBI could investigate them. They were not allowed to go until they were
``cleared'' of any connection to terrorism. They were treated as guilty until
proved innocent.

In all, the government detained more than 5,000 foreign nationals in the two
years after Sept. 11. Yet as of today, not one of these persons stands convicted
of a terrorist crime.

In Turkmen vs. Ashcroft, the detainees argued that the government denied them
equal protection of the law when it rounded them up on the basis of their race
and religion, and violated their due-process rights when it kept them after
their immigration cases were resolved. The district court rejected both claims,
concluding that the government is free to detain deportable foreigners for as
long as it wants, as long as their ultimate removal is ``reasonably
foreseeable.''

And the judge concluded that using race or religion to select the foreign
nationals subject to such detention was neither ``irrational'' nor
``outrageous.'' because the Sept. 11 hijackers, after all, were Arab foreign
nationals belonging to an Islamist group, Al-Qaida.

In other words, the next time we are attacked, the government is free to round
up all foreign nationals with alleged visa violations who share the race or
religion of the attacker and to keep them behind bars as long as it wishes. If
the attack is perpetrated by an Arab Muslim, all Arab and Muslim immigrants are
vulnerable. If the attacker is a Hispanic Christian, the government could round
up all Hispanic Christians with alleged visa problems.

It's true that the World War II internment included citizens as well as foreign
nationals, and in many cases, it rounded up people who had done nothing wrong.
But what was most offensive about it was the fact that people were selected
based on their race.

When the Supreme Court in Korematsu vs. United States upheld the legality of the
Japanese internment, Justice Robert Jackson warned in his dissent that the
precedent would ``lie about like a loaded weapon ready for the hand of any
authority that can bring forward a plausible claim of an urgent need.''

Until Wednesday, I thought history had proved Jackson wrong. Virtually every
living Supreme Court justice has condemned Korematsu as wrongly decided. --
Justice Antonin Scalia has compared it to the Dred Scott decision of 1857, in
which the court refused to recognize that slaves were ``persons.'' Congress has
apologized to the survivors of the internment and paid reparations for their
injuries.

Yet the Turkmen decision has taken the loaded weapon out of the closet, dusted
it off and handed it to federal authorities, giving them explicit permission to
let prejudice and fear run roughshod over the most basic of human rights -- the
rights to equal treatment and liberty.

DAVID COLE, a law professor at Georgetown University and a volunteer attorney
with the Center for Constitutional Rights, was co-counsel to the plaintiffs in
Turkmen vs. Ashcroft. He wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              383 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              June 19, 2006 Monday

Program offers up-close lessons;
WORKING WITH IMMIGRANTS GIVES VOLUNTEERS INSIGHT

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words


Beads of sweat forming on their brows, Zane Pierce, 27, and Daniel Jaramillo,
28, dug up tall weeds under plum trees at San Jose's Guadalupe River Parks and
Gardens.

They chatted quietly about the World Cup. Jaramillo, a construction worker from
Mexico City learning English, is rooting for Mexico. Pierce, a real estate agent
from Mountain View, is rooting for the United States.

The Saturday morning chore was part of an immersion workshop for Zane and 11
other South Bay volunteers, who for the past three weeks have spent many
after-work and weekend hours in unpaid activities meant to deepen their
knowledge of immigration by putting them in direct contact with immigrants.

They have stuffed grocery bags for distribution to low-income immigrant families
in East San Jose. They've read with English-language learners. And they've
cleaned up after a picnic for ESL tutors to immigrant parents and their young
children.

``TeamWorks 201'' was assembled by Hands On Bay Area, a local non-profit that is
part of a national organization that teams up with and manages volunteers for
hundreds of non-profit organizations.

``My hope and intention was to get a personal awareness for what's going on,''
said Michael Cook, TeamWorks program coordinator for Hands On Bay Area. ``It's
easy to look at the issues from afar, but if you haven't met someone who's
affected directly by these issues, it's hard to understand them in context.''

Janel Lee, 30, a chemist from Santa Clara who has volunteered with Hands On for
the past year, said she felt lost in the national debate about immigration and
wanted knowledge that can only come from a project like TeamWorks 201.

Lee was born and raised in Hawaii to parents who emigrated from Korea in 1974.

``I wanted to understand,'' Lee said, acknowledging that her quest to learn more
could be seen as a personal one: to understand and appreciate her parents' life
as immigrants.

In conversations with immigrants learning English, Lee said she was reminded of
her parents' struggle. ``I know how hard it is because I saw my parents go
through it,'' she said.

The project was in the works long before the congressional debate on immigration
reform heated up, Cook said, but its timing is fortuitous. It will conclude at
the end of this month.

There are 12 on the team, a group diverse in age and occupation. The youngest is
Colin Hector, 22, a graduate of the University of California-Santa Cruz. The
oldest is Sarah Madden, 51, an accountant for a non-profit group.

There is a speech pathology student from San Jose State University, two Silicon
Valley engineers, a human relations worker, a marketing manager. There are
native Californians, immigrants from Vietnam and Canada, and the U.S.-born
children of Korean and Cuban immigrants.

``What we're gaining is personal experience related to the issue of
immigration,'' said team coach Maryanne McGlothlin, marketing manager for Family
& Children Services, a social service agency in Palo Alto, San Jose and
Campbell.

``As you talk with people, the issues get larger and more complex,'' she said.
``But that gives you a better grasp of the issues.''

Since the first weekend of June, the team members have participated in hands-on
volunteer work designed to connect them with the South Bay's immigrants.

``It's wonderful when you have individuals from the community who have full-time
jobs, take the pains to understand the issue firsthand,'' said Shanti Bhaskaran,
literacy program supervisor at the Santa Clara City Mission Library.

Earlier this month, team members helped prepare a picnic at the library, setting
up food tables, serving and, later, cleaning up. The event celebrated the work
of tutors teaching immigrant parents and children.

``We could not have done it without them,'' Bhaskaran said. ``But I also think
it gave many of them a chance to see how hard these families are working to get
a better life.''

For Jaramillo, the sweaty Saturday morning in an orchard was a way of
multi-tasking.

``I'm working and learning English at the same time,'' he said.

As he stood in the garden shoveling hard at the weeds, Pierce said he is
searching for an education, too.

``I haven't given immigration much thought, to be honest,'' he said. ``But doing
it like this is going to shed some light.''

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              384 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Latin America News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words

MEXICO

Officials arrest leader of document-forging ring

The fugitive leader of a major document-forging ring that allegedly supplied
bogus identity papers to millions of illegal immigrants over the past two
decades has been arrested in Mexico, federal officials announced Monday.

Pedro Castorena is accused of heading the family-run enterprise that's dominated
the document-forging industry in the United States since the late 1980s,
according to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

He was listed as one of ICE's most-wanted fugitives after a federal grand jury
in Denver indicted him nearly a year ago on charges of conspiracy, fraud, misuse
of visas and money laundering.

Mexican authorities arrested Castorena, who's also known as Castorena-Ibarra, on
Saturday night in Guadalajara without incident, ICE officials said. ICE agents
based at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City assisted in the arrest.

ST. KITTS AND NEVIS

Whaling support could hurt tourism, foes warn

Six Caribbean states that support Japan's drive to resume commercial whaling are
highly dependent on tourism and could suffer boycotts or lost business as a
result of their position, environmentalists and tourism promoters warned Monday.

A day after Japan mustered the first International Whaling Commission vote in
support of ending a 20-year moratorium on hunting, countries that oppose
whale-killing also cautioned the small islands that their most vital industry
could feel the sting of angry whale lovers.

The pro-whaling island states, beneficiaries of more than $100 million in
Japanese aid over the past eight years, have argued throughout this year's
annual meeting that whale hunting and whale watching can coexist. They express
little concern that backing Tokyo's campaign to overturn the whaling ban could
hurt their image as eco-tourist destinations.

All six Caribbean island members of IWC -- Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica,
Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines --
voted for a declaration Sunday deeming the whaling ban ``no longer necessary.''

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              385 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 3, 2006 Monday

Fremont man embraces his adopted homeland;
GARY YEAP 75 NEW CITIZENS AT CEREMONY ABOARD THE USS HORNET

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

LENGTH: 812 words


Gary Yeap, 44, of Fremont typically takes his wife and three boys to a parade on
the Fourth of July, or to see fireworks in San Jose. This year, those
festivities have a new meaning.

On Monday, Yeap took his family, including his 74-year-old mother, Hoon, who is
visiting from his home country of Malaysia, to watch him become a U.S. citizen
at the Bay Area's biggest Independence Day naturalization celebration.

``This is the land where I want to stay forever,'' said Yeap, a research and
development manager who designs software at Synopsis in Sunnyvale.

The topic of immigration has heated up in recent months, with the spotlight on
illegal immigrants from Mexico. Immigration also became of interest nationwide
following Sept. 11, 2001 when critics began worrying that legal foreigners and
non-citizens have more to fear when federal agents secretly monitor houses of
worship or troll through phone records in the nation's wide-reaching effort to
prevent terrorism.

At Monday's ceremony aboard the USS Hornet in Alameda, Yeap seemed proud as he
solemnly raised his right hand to pledge the oath of allegiance, an American
flag tucked in the left pocket of his green corduroy sports coat.

Regardless of whether it's a hot-button topic, immigration is a common
occurrence. Last year, about 600,000 people became citizens nationwide,
according to the department of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. In the
Bay Area, there are regular swearing-in ceremonies, including the monthly event
at the Campbell Heritage Theater or the weekly ceremony in San Francisco, said
Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the San Francisco office of the immigration
department.

But the week of July 4th is a special and symbolic time to become a citizen,
Rummery explained, which is why her agency chooses a different site each year to
hold a grand hoopla. This year, the USS Hornet, a former military aircraft
carrier that has since turned into a museum, was dubbed the site of honor.

Yeap was one of 75 people from 29 countries who became naturalized at the
ceremony.

``He's very well-accomplished,'' Rummery said of Yeap. ``People like him make an
important economic impact for our nation.''

On Monday, the newly sworn Americans wore red ribbons and clutched
red-white-and-blue flags during the chilly, fog-shrouded ceremony on the flight
deck of a massive former World War II ship. They smiled proudly and stood up
when their countries of origin were called: India, China, Guatemala, Iran,
Nigeria, Chile, Germany, Cambodia and so on.

According to the immigration department, Asia is the leading region of birth
among new citizens; in 2004, 40 percent of naturalized Americans were born in an
Asian country.

Yeap and others at Monday's ceremony said they wanted to become Americans
because they've spent most of their adult lives here, their children were born
here, and their friends and workplaces are here. This is the place they call
home.

```Sept. 11 affected me a little bit,'' Yeap said. ``I'd read the newspaper and
realize that you may have less rights here if you're not a citizen. But mostly,
I wanted to become a citizen because my whole life is here.''

Yeap came to the United States in 1989, when he was getting his PhD at
Northwestern University in Chicago in electrical engineering. He was born on the
island of Penang in Malaysia. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the
National Taiwan University, which is where he met his wife, Sue. The couple have
moved around the United States, and have three sons, Danny, 14, Kevin, 13, and
Nelson, 9, who were all born here. Sue Yeap had hoped to become a citizen on
Monday too. But her application was delayed, she believes, because of a
technical error involving her fingerprints. She expects to become naturalized in
August.

The couple have kept their legal status in this country by holding student
visas, high-tech H1-B visas, or Green Cards, since their arrival. Someone with a
Green Card must live in the United States five years before being eligible for
citizenship.

Yeap doesn't expect that life will change much for him as a citizen. He's always
paid taxes and contributed to his community. He is excited, however, to vote for
the first time in November.

As for his Fourth of July plans, Yeap still hopes to whisk the family away to a
vacation house near Mendocino this week, and maybe even the fireworks in San
Jose. He's not sure if his sons really understand what it means that he is now a
U.S. citizen. ``I think they're more interested in Nintendo,'' he joked.

But as their father pledged allegiance to the American flag, it was clear his
sons thought what he was doing was important. His oldest filmed the event with a
digital camcorder.

``I'm really proud of him,'' said Danny Yeap, 14. ``I'm going to save this and
store it away for memories.''

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews.com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              386 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday

Hearings begin on immigration;
GOP EVENT IN SAN DIEGO CALLED ONE-SIDED

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 403 words


The U.S. House of Representatives released the names of witnesses who will
testify Wednesday at the first in a series of immigration-reform hearings, and
immigrant advocates say the list is what they feared: All are proponents of
strict border control as the solution to illegal immigration.

Scheduled to testify at the Republican-sponsored event are U.S. Border Patrol
agents; California sheriffs who support tougher enforcement; Kris Kobach, an
adviser to former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft; and Andy Ramirez, a
representative of the Friends of the Border Patrol -- a California civilian
group that patrols the border with Mexico. The hearing will be held at the
Imperial Beach border station in San Diego, the country's busiest border
crossing station with Mexico.

There will be no witnesses proposing guest-worker status or amnesty. Rep. Edward
R. Royce (R-Fullerton), chair of the House subcommittee on international
terrorism, who is spearheading hearings, could not be reached for comment.

When the nationwide hearings were announced last month, House Speaker Dennis
Hastert told the New York Times, ``We are going to listen to the American
people, and we are going to get a bill that is right.''

The next hearing is scheduled Friday in Laredo, Texas. An Arizona hearing has
not been scheduled.

The San Diego hearing precedes yet to be scheduled negotiations between the
House and Senate on a compromise immigration reform bill. Democrats and
immigrant advocates slammed Republican congressional leaders for scheduling the
hearings to thwart a compromise bill.

``It's very one-sided,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a non-profit, advocacy group based in
San Jose.

``Clearly there's an agenda,'' she said. ``There's a desire to talk about border
security as the only way to look at reforming immigration policy and the system.
It's just disappointing.''

Dueling news conferences and hearings have been scheduled Wednesday by
Democratic congressional leaders in Washington and by immigrant advocates in the
Bay Area.

``It's an opportunity for the House Republicans to push forward a border
enforcement strategy that seems to be completely ineffective,'' said Sheila
Chung, executive director of the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, an
umbrella advocacy group based in Oakland.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman @mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              387 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday

75 immigrants naturalized in ceremony on USS Hornet;
RITES FULL OF SYMBOLISM IN ALAMEDA GIVE SPECIAL MEANING TO INDEPENDENCE HOLIDAY

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words


Gary Yeap typically takes his wife and three boys to a parade for the Fourth of
July, or to see fireworks in San Jose. This year, he added something special.

On Monday, Yeap took his family aboard a retired aircraft carrier to watch him
become a U.S. citizen. The Malaysian-born software designer was one of 75
immigrants from 29 countries who were naturalized on the USS Hornet in a
ceremony that gave new meaning to Independence Day.

``This is the land where I want to stay forever,'' said Yeap, 44, who works at
Synopsis in Sunnyvale.

Though the topic of immigration has heated up politically in recent months, the
debate wasn't foremost on the minds of Yeap and others Monday. For them, it was
about calling America home.

While a brass band played the national anthem, Victor Santos, 47, prayed
silently, he said, thanking God that he can now provide a better life for his
family, who looked on. He moved to Redwood City from Guatemala on a political
asylum visa to escape violence 16 years ago -- and recently bought a house in
Oakland.

Vikas Lodha, 38, and his wife, Ritu, 33, of Fremont, who came to work in the
high-tech industry from India a decade ago, hugged their elementary-school age
sons on their laps, protecting them from Monday morning's chilly winds, and
embracing them for the first time as an American family.

``This is so excellent,'' Vikas Lodha said. ``We feel more home here than we do
now in our own country.''

Ceremonies like Monday's are commonplace. Last year, about 600,000 people became
citizens nationwide, according to the department of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services. In the Bay Area, there are regular swearing-in ceremonies,
including the monthly event at the Campbell Heritage Theater or the weekly
ceremony in San Francisco. But the week of July 4th is a special and a symbolic
time to become a citizen.

Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the immigration department, said her agency
chooses a different place each year to hold a special event for the Fourth of
July.

On Monday, the newly sworn Americans wore red ribbons and clutched
red-white-and-blue flags during the fog-shrouded ceremony on the flight deck of
the massive retired World War II aircraft carrier docked in Alameda. They smiled
proudly and stood up when their countries of origin were called: India, China,
Guatemala, Iran, Nigeria, Chile, Germany, Cambodia and so on.

Asia is the leading region of birth among new citizens, according to the
immigration department; in 2004, 40 percent of naturalized Americans were born
in an Asian country. Rummery said that every week, when immigrants get
naturalized in San Francisco, the top five countries in order of origin are
China, Mexico, India, the Philippines and Vietnam.

Yeap and others said they wanted to become Americans because they've spent most
of their adult lives here, their children were born here, and their friends and
workplaces are here. This is the place they call home.

```Sept. 11 affected me a little bit,'' Yeap said. He came to the United States
in 1989 to earn his doctorate in electrical engineering at Northwestern
University. ``I'd read the newspaper and realize that you may have less rights
here if you're not a citizen. But mostly, I wanted to become a citizen because
my whole life is here.''

His wife, Sue Yeap, expects to become naturalized in August.

As for his Fourth of July plans, Yeap hopes to whisk the family away to a
vacation house near Mendocino this week, and maybe even take in the fireworks in
San Jose. His 74-year-old mother, Hoon, is visiting from Malaysia. He's not sure
if his sons -- Danny, 14, Kevin, 13, and Nelson, 9 -- understand what it means
that he is now a U.S. citizen. ``I think they're more interested in Nintendo,''
he joked.

But as their father pledged allegiance to the American flag, it was clear that
the Yeap boys thought he was doing something important. His oldest filmed the
event with a digital camcorder.

``I'm really proud of him,'' Danny said. ``I'm going to save this and store it
away for memories.''

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews. com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              388 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday

Hearings begin on immigration;
GOP EVENT IN SAN DIEGO CALLED ONE-SIDED

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 403 words


The U.S. House of Representatives released the names of witnesses who will
testify Wednesday at the first in a series of immigration-reform hearings, and
immigrant advocates say the list is what they feared: All are proponents of
strict border control as the solution to illegal immigration.

Scheduled to testify at the Republican-sponsored event are U.S. Border Patrol
agents; California sheriffs who support tougher enforcement; Kris Kobach, an
adviser to former U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft; and Andy Ramirez, a
representative of the Friends of the Border Patrol -- a California civilian
group that patrols the border with Mexico. The hearing will be held at the
Imperial Beach border station in San Diego, the country's busiest border
crossing station with Mexico.

There will be no witnesses proposing guest-worker status or amnesty. Rep. Edward
R. Royce (R-Fullerton), chair of the House subcommittee on international
terrorism, who is spearheading hearings, could not be reached for comment.

When the nationwide hearings were announced last month, House Speaker Dennis
Hastert told the New York Times, ``We are going to listen to the American
people, and we are going to get a bill that is right.''

The next hearing is scheduled Friday in Laredo, Texas. An Arizona hearing has
not been scheduled.

The San Diego hearing precedes yet to be scheduled negotiations between the
House and Senate on a compromise immigration reform bill. Democrats and
immigrant advocates slammed Republican congressional leaders for scheduling the
hearings to thwart a compromise bill.

``It's very one-sided,'' said Larisa Casillas, policy director for Services,
Immigrant Rights and Education Network, a non-profit, advocacy group based in
San Jose.

``Clearly there's an agenda,'' she said. ``There's a desire to talk about border
security as the only way to look at reforming immigration policy and the system.
It's just disappointing.''

Dueling news conferences and hearings have been scheduled Wednesday by
Democratic congressional leaders in Washington and by immigrant advocates in the
Bay Area.

``It's an opportunity for the House Republicans to push forward a border
enforcement strategy that seems to be completely ineffective,'' said Sheila
Chung, executive director of the Bay Area Immigrant Rights Coalition, an
umbrella advocacy group based in Oakland.

Contact Jessie Mangaliman at jmangaliman @mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5794.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              389 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 4, 2006 Tuesday

75 immigrants naturalized in ceremony on USS Hornet;
RITES FULL OF SYMBOLISM IN ALAMEDA GIVE SPECIAL MEANING TO INDEPENDENCE HOLIDAY

BYLINE: Lisa Fernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words


Gary Yeap typically takes his wife and three boys to a parade for the Fourth of
July, or to see fireworks in San Jose. This year, he added something special.

On Monday, Yeap took his family aboard a retired aircraft carrier to watch him
become a U.S. citizen. The Malaysian-born software designer was one of 75
immigrants from 29 countries who were naturalized on the USS Hornet in a
ceremony that gave new meaning to Independence Day.

``This is the land where I want to stay forever,'' said Yeap, 44, who works at
Synopsis in Sunnyvale.

Though the topic of immigration has heated up politically in recent months, the
debate wasn't foremost on the minds of Yeap and others Monday. For them, it was
about calling America home.

While a brass band played the national anthem, Victor Santos, 47, prayed
silently, he said, thanking God that he can now provide a better life for his
family, who looked on. He moved to Redwood City from Guatemala on a political
asylum visa to escape violence 16 years ago -- and recently bought a house in
Oakland.

Vikas Lodha, 38, and his wife, Ritu, 33, of Fremont, who came to work in the
high-tech industry from India a decade ago, hugged their elementary-school age
sons on their laps, protecting them from Monday morning's chilly winds, and
embracing them for the first time as an American family.

``This is so excellent,'' Vikas Lodha said. ``We feel more home here than we do
now in our own country.''

Ceremonies like Monday's are commonplace. Last year, about 600,000 people became
citizens nationwide, according to the department of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services. In the Bay Area, there are regular swearing-in ceremonies,
including the monthly event at the Campbell Heritage Theater or the weekly
ceremony in San Francisco. But the week of July 4th is a special and a symbolic
time to become a citizen.

Sharon Rummery, spokeswoman for the immigration department, said her agency
chooses a different place each year to hold a special event for the Fourth of
July.

On Monday, the newly sworn Americans wore red ribbons and clutched
red-white-and-blue flags during the fog-shrouded ceremony on the flight deck of
the massive retired World War II aircraft carrier docked in Alameda. They smiled
proudly and stood up when their countries of origin were called: India, China,
Guatemala, Iran, Nigeria, Chile, Germany, Cambodia and so on.

Asia is the leading region of birth among new citizens, according to the
immigration department; in 2004, 40 percent of naturalized Americans were born
in an Asian country. Rummery said that every week, when immigrants get
naturalized in San Francisco, the top five countries in order of origin are
China, Mexico, India, the Philippines and Vietnam.

Yeap and others said they wanted to become Americans because they've spent most
of their adult lives here, their children were born here, and their friends and
workplaces are here. This is the place they call home.

```Sept. 11 affected me a little bit,'' Yeap said. He came to the United States
in 1989 to earn his doctorate in electrical engineering at Northwestern
University. ``I'd read the newspaper and realize that you may have less rights
here if you're not a citizen. But mostly, I wanted to become a citizen because
my whole life is here.''

His wife, Sue Yeap, expects to become naturalized in August.

As for his Fourth of July plans, Yeap hopes to whisk the family away to a
vacation house near Mendocino this week, and maybe even take in the fireworks in
San Jose. His 74-year-old mother, Hoon, is visiting from Malaysia. He's not sure
if his sons -- Danny, 14, Kevin, 13, and Nelson, 9 -- understand what it means
that he is now a U.S. citizen. ``I think they're more interested in Nintendo,''
he joked.

But as their father pledged allegiance to the American flag, it was clear that
the Yeap boys thought he was doing something important. His oldest filmed the
event with a digital camcorder.

``I'm really proud of him,'' Danny said. ``I'm going to save this and store it
away for memories.''

Contact Lisa Fernandez at lfernandez@mercurynews. com or (510) 790-7313.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              390 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 8, 2006 Saturday

Calderón blasts proposal for wall between U.S., Mexico

BYLINE: Kevin G. Hall, McClatchy Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 580 words


Felipe Calderón on Friday took sides in the battle over immigration, blasting a
U.S. congressional plan to build a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border while
endorsing a U.S. Senate proposal that would offer a route to legal citizenship
for millions of Mexicans living illegally in the United States.

``The solution for migration is not to build walls,'' he said.

Calderón also called for a joint development fund among Mexico, the United
States and Canada that would finance public-works construction in poor areas of
Mexico.

``A kilometer of highway in Zacatecas or Michoacán can do more to reduce
migration than 10 kilometers of wall in Texas or Arizona,'' he said.

He also ruled out reopening the agriculture provisions of the North American
Free Trade Agreement, which took effect in 1994. Instead, he pledged a new
government program focused on helping farmers hurt by imported U.S. corn.

Calderón's comments to foreign reporters were his first since the completion
Thursday of the official ballot count that showed him the winner by a slim 0.58
percent. His leftist rival, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, has promised to
challenge the result. Calderón had met with Mexican reporters Wednesday.

But Calderón appeared as confident in his victory as if he had won the election
by a landslide. In addition to criticizing proposals for a wall on the
U.S.-Mexico border, he rapped China for its human rights record and promised an
aggressive foreign policy that would push Mexico into a leadership role in the
Western Hemisphere.

He said a ballot-by-ballot recount demanded by López Obrador was unnecessary and
predicted that the Federal Electoral Tribunal would quickly validate his win.

He made a point of bolstering his democratic credentials, pointing out that his
National Action Party, or PAN, fought for decades to make Mexico more democratic
when it was ruled for 71 years by the oft-corrupt Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI.

And he questioned his opponent's democratic pedigree, noting that López
Obrador's campaign coordinator, Manuel Camacho Solís, held the same job in 1988
for the PRI when it was largely seen as having stolen the presidential election
from the founder of López Obrador's Party of the Democratic Revolution, or PRD.

``Let me remind you that I was fighting for democracy when my political
adversaries were fighting against democracy,'' Calderón said.

Calderón will be only the second Mexican president not affiliated with the PRI
since the 1920s. In 2000, the current president, Vicente Fox, also a PAN member,
became the first. For the first time, the PAN will also control the largest
number of seats in Congress, though not a majority.

But Calderón said he would quickly reach out to small splinter parties and the
PRI to build a majority.

Calderón's apparent victory ends the streak of Latin American elections that put
left-leaning governments in office. Mexico joins Colombia as the only other
Latin nation with a conservative government, and Calderón said he would work
hard to bridge ideological differences and forge closer relations with neighbors
in the hemisphere.

A key reason for Calderón's apparent win was his attack ads on López Obrador,
which compared him to Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, a vocal U.S. critic.
Calderón smiled broadly when a Venezuelan TV correspondent asked about
Venezuela's vice president, José Vicente Rangel, who labeled Mexico's election
results ``suspicious.''

``I'm sorry to have disappointed them by winning,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              391 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 9, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Names causing confusion on citizenship application

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 628 words


Q My name is Lai Ching C. Leung. Very soon I'm going to file an N-400 form, an
application for citizenship. As my name doesn't appear the same in most of my
legal documents (a shortened form of my name was required at the time when I
applied) I don't know which name I should go by now when I apply for citizenship
to avoid unnecessary delay.

Here's how my name appears in various documents: passport -- Lai Ching Cassandra
Leung; resident alien card -- Lai Ching Leung; California driver's license --
Lai Ching C. Leung.

Cassandra LeungSan Jose

A You gave four different names here -- three for legal documents, and the name
you signed on your question -- and we can see how you'd think that you might
have a problem on your hands.

Curt Bui, an attorney with the Immigration Law Group in San Jose, said the
answer is simple and straightforward: The name on your green card, or resident
alien card, should be the same as the name on your application for citizenship.

Matching the names on these two documents is more important than matching it
with your driver's license or your passport, Bui said.

This will minimize confusion for the adjudication officer who's going to examine
your application, he said.

The best time to make name changes is before you apply for citizenship, he said.

Q My parents filed an immigration petition for my sister, who is in the
Philippines, sometime in 1985.

After more than 20 years of waiting, we recently received a notice from the U.S.
Department of State saying that their petition for my sister has been approved.

My parents died in 1995.

Is it true the petition dies when the petitioner has died? How can we let my
sister and her family join us here without going through a lengthy application
process and waiting for decades again?

My sister is now over 30 years old, married and has two children.

Sam FonteCupertino

A In general, when the visa petitioner dies, the approved I-130 is automatically
revoked, said Alicia Piva, a federally accredited immigration representative
with the Immigration Legal Services of Catholic Charities of Santa Clara County.

However, your sister may file for reinstatement as long as she can provide an
I-864 Affidavit of Support filed by a ``substitute sponsor,'' she said.

Visit www.uscis.gov/graphics/howdoi/affsupp.htm#death for additional
information.

From your question, it's not clear whether your parents were U.S. citizens or
permanent residents at the time they filed, Piva said. If they were permanent
residents, and your sister married while that application was pending, the I-130
would be considered automatically revoked, Piva said.

Piva suggests you consult an immigration attorney or an accredited
representative of the U.S. Bureau of Immigration Appeals.

Citizenship information workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
has scheduled a workshop in San Jose on how to apply for citizenship.

The workshop, ``Overview of Naturalization,'' will be held from 6 to 8 p.m. at
the Dr. Roberto Cruz Alum Rock Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave. The session will be
conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, call the reservation line to confirm attendance:
(408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercury news.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              392 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Several forms await son in quest to become legal

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words


Q We came to America and filed for amnesty in 1986. I filed for legalization of
my three sons via the Family Unity Act. When I finally became an American
citizen, my youngest son automatically became a citizen, too, because he was 17.

My second son, then 20, qualified to get a green card. However, my eldest son
was 22 by then, hence, he didn't have the qualifications to be a green card
holder or a citizen.

He completed his bachelor's degree from a private college in San Mateo County
and married a classmate who is a U.S. citizen. They now have a 3-year-old son.

What does my son need to file to get proper legalization documents, whether for
a green card or citizenship papers?

Amor CastilloSan Jose

A If you filed an I-130 for your eldest son before April 30, 2001, when you were
a lawful permanent resident, your son may apply to adjust his status by paying a
$1,000 fine under the Immigration and Naturalization Act provision called 241
(i), said Mary Dutcher, Immigration Program director for the Community Legal
Services in East Palo Alto.

If you didn't file an I-130, then your son will have to go to the U.S. consulate
in his country of origin and apply to become an LPR. Since he lost his Family
Unity status when he married, he has been unlawfully present in the United
States for more than one year. According to a law passed in 1997, because of the
unlawful presence, he will incur a 10-year bar to re-entry when he leaves the
United States, Dutcher said.

He may file a 601 form ($265), petitioning for a waiver of the 10-year bar,
based on the extreme hardship it would cause his wife.

Your citizen daughter-in-law should file an I-130 petition for her husband and
pay the $190 fee, Dutcher said. At the same time and in the same packet, he
should file an I-485 ($325 fee) to adjust his status to LPR. They both should
fill out G-325A forms (no fee) for biographical information. He should file an
I-765 ($180), an application for employment authorization, and include two
passport-style photos. She must file an I-864 (no fee), an Affidavit of Support,
including a copy of her most recent federal tax return. A $70 biometrics fee is
also required.

Citizenship workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has
scheduled a workshop in San Jose, an ``Overview of Naturalization.''

The workshop will be from 6 to 8 p.m. Monday, at the Dr. Roberto Cruz Alum Rock
Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave. The session will be conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              393 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                              July 23, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Several forms await son in quest to become legal

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words


Q We came to America and filed for amnesty in 1986. I filed for legalization of
my three sons via the Family Unity Act. When I finally became an American
citizen, my youngest son automatically became a citizen, too, because he was 17.

My second son, then 20, qualified to get a green card. However, my eldest son
was 22 by then, hence, he didn't have the qualifications to be a green card
holder or a citizen.

He completed his bachelor's degree from a private college in San Mateo County
and married a classmate who is a U.S. citizen. They now have a 3-year-old son.

What does my son need to file to get proper legalization documents, whether for
a green card or citizenship papers?

Amor CastilloSan Jose

A If you filed an I-130 for your eldest son before April 30, 2001, when you were
a lawful permanent resident, your son may apply to adjust his status by paying a
$1,000 fine under the Immigration and Naturalization Act provision called 241
(i), said Mary Dutcher, Immigration Program director for the Community Legal
Services in East Palo Alto.

If you didn't file an I-130, then your son will have to go to the U.S. consulate
in his country of origin and apply to become an LPR. Since he lost his Family
Unity status when he married, he has been unlawfully present in the United
States for more than one year. According to a law passed in 1997, because of the
unlawful presence, he will incur a 10-year bar to re-entry when he leaves the
United States, Dutcher said.

He may file a 601 form ($265), petitioning for a waiver of the 10-year bar,
based on the extreme hardship it would cause his wife.

Your citizen daughter-in-law should file an I-130 petition for her husband and
pay the $190 fee, Dutcher said. At the same time and in the same packet, he
should file an I-485 ($325 fee) to adjust his status to LPR. They both should
fill out G-325A forms (no fee) for biographical information. He should file an
I-765 ($180), an application for employment authorization, and include two
passport-style photos. She must file an I-864 (no fee), an Affidavit of Support,
including a copy of her most recent federal tax return. A $70 biometrics fee is
also required.

Citizenship workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has
scheduled a workshop in San Jose, an ``Overview of Naturalization.''

The workshop will be from 6 to 8 p.m. Monday, at the Dr. Roberto Cruz Alum Rock
Library, 3090 Alum Rock Ave. The session will be conducted in English.

Although the workshop is free, the public is asked to confirm attendance by
calling the reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              394 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

Schwarzenegger gets earful on immigration, crime

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

LENGTH: 692 words


A heavily Republican crowd grilled Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger during a campaign
appearance in Southern California today, barraging him with questions about
immigration and crime.

The same day a statewide poll showed Schwarzenegger leading Democrat Phil
Angelides by 8 percentage points, the governor started the day with a
question-and-answer session with 150 people at a park in the Republican
stronghold of San Diego County.

A cane-carrying woman who identified herself as only Kelly addressed the
governor first. She complained about police officers who ``battered me to a
pulp.'' Schwarzenegger listened attentively and said he would look into it.

``Come on up here. I will protect you. Trust me. I will protect you,'' the
governor told Kelly. ``It will never happen again. Give me a hug, give me a hug,
everything will be OK.''

A teenager told the governor he was attacked by a group of men and had concerns
about gang violence. The governor praised the boy for trying to avoid violence.

Things went downhill fast from there. Schwarzenegger told his first questioner
on immigration that the federal government is responsible for securing the
borders and should do a better job of it. And businesses should be able to hire
immigrants when they have exhausted attempts to hire native-born employees.

Then Sally, who later identified herself as a volunteer with the Minuteman
Project border patrol, stood up. She wanted to know where the National Guard
members were on the border.

``I voted for you,'' she said. ``And right now, I don't see much difference
between you and Phil Angelines,'' she said, mispronouncing the name of the
governor's Democratic challenger.

``I don't see that you're standing up for the citizens of California,'' she said
to scattered boos from Schwarzenegger fans and applause from those concerned
about illegal immigration. ``You're on a thin piece of wall if you don't start
changing your attitude,'' she said.

``Well, thank you for the compliment,'' the governor replied. National Guard
members are at the border. He ``can totally understand your frustration about
the immigration'' because the federal government has done a ``terrible job'' on
immigration.

``I'm going to try to represent you as well as possible and I will make sure
that you have confidence in me so that you will vote for me.''

Then came a question from a woman who likened Schwarzenegger to Ronald Reagan
and wanted to take a photograph with him. But she also wanted ``my country
back'' from illegal immigrants.

``I totally understand exactly what you're saying, and I think it's very
important to never get mad at anyone that is trying to come to this country,''
some of whom are fleeing economic ``misery,'' the governor said. ``What you
should be mad about -- what I'm mad about is -- for the federal government not
being able to secure the borders.''

As he answered, someone interjected. ``Please don't interrupt me when I talk,
thank you very much'' Schwarzenegger bristled. ``I let you talk also.''

``You can ask me all you want about immigration,'' he continued. But ``it's not
a state issue.''

So insurance agent and law-and-order activist Brad Boswell drilled in on another
topic -- the governor's parole policies. Boswell cited news reports about a
parolee who went on a drug-fueled crime spree in San Bernardino County.

``I'm very, very concerned about your record on crime,'' he said. ``You've let
out more murderers than Michael Dukakis,'' the former Massachusetts governor who
lost the 1988 presidential race amid allegations that he was soft on crime.

The governor thanked him and said he was ``very proud that we have been tough on
crime.'' And he urged passage of the anti-sex-offender Jessica's Law ballot
initiative in November.

``The governor said all along that he wants to have real questions, have real
questions from real people about what's important to them,'' said Katie
Levinson, a campaign spokeswoman for the governor. ``What you saw today was the
governor taking real questions from real people. They weren't scripted.

``He enjoys the back-and-forth. He enjoys being out with people who agree with
him and people who disagree with him alike.''

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              395 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

Schwarzenegger gets earful on immigration, crime

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

LENGTH: 691 words


A heavily Republican crowd grilled Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger during a campaign
appearance in Southern California Tuesday, barraging him with questions about
immigration and crime.

The same day a statewide poll showed Schwarzenegger leading Democrat Phil
Angelides by eight percentage points, the governor started the day with a
question-and-answer session with 150 people at a park in the Republican
stronghold of San Diego County.

A cane-carrying woman who identified herself as only Kelly addressed the
governor first. She complained about police officers who ``battered me to a
pulp.'' Schwarzenegger listened attentively and said he would look into it.

``Come on up here. I will protect you. Trust me. I will protect you,'' the
governor told Kelly. ``It will never happen again. Give me a hug, give me a hug,
everything will be ok.''

A teenager told the governor he was attacked by a group of men and had concerns
about gang violence. The governor praised the boy for trying to avoid violence.

Things went downhill fast from there. Schwarzenegger told his first questioner
on immigration that the federal government is responsible for securing the
borders and should do a better job of it. And businesses should be able to hire
immigrants when they have exhausted attempts to hire native-born employees.

Then Sally, who later identified herself as a volunteer with the Minuteman
Project border patrol, stood up. She wanted to know where the National Guard
members were on the border.

``I voted for you,'' she said. ``And right now, I don't see much difference
between you and Phil Angelines,'' she said, mispronouncing the name of the
governor's Democratic challenger.

``I don't see that you're standing up for the citizens of California,'' she said
to scattered boos from Schwarzenegger fans and applause from those concerned
about illegal immigration. ``You're on a thin piece of wall if you don't start
changing your attitude.

``Well, thank you for the compliment,'' the governor replied. National Guard
members are at the border. He ``can totally understand your frustration about
the immigration'' because the federal government has done a ``terrible job'' on
immigration.

``I'm going to try to represent you as well as possible and I will make sure
that you have confidence in me so that you will vote for me.''

Then came a question from a woman who likened Schwarzenegger to Ronald Reagan
and wanted to take a photograph with him. But she also wanted ``my country
back'' from illegal immigrants.

``I totally understand exactly what you're saying, and I think it's very
important to never get mad at anyone that is trying to come to this country,''
some of whom are fleeing economic ``misery,'' the governor said. ``What you
should be mad about -- what I'm mad about is -- for the federal government not
being able to secure the borders.''

As he answered, someone interjected. ``Please don't interrupt me when I talk,
thank you very much'' Schwarzenegger bristled. ``I let you talk also.''

``You can ask me all you want about immigration,'' he continued. But ``it's not
a state issue.''

So insurance agent and law-and-order activist Brad Boswell drilled in on another
topic -- the governor's parole policies. Boswell cited news reports about a
parolee who went on a drug-fueled crime spree in San Bernardino county.

``I'm very, very concerned about your record on crime,'' he said. ``You've let
out more murderers than Michael Dukakis,'' the former Massachusetts governor who
lost the 1988 presidential race amid allegations that he was soft on crime.

The governor thanked him and said he was ``very proud that we have been tough on
crime.'' And he urged passage of the anti-sex-offender Jessica's Law ballot
initiative in November.

``The governor said all along that he wants to have real questions, have real
questions from real people about what's important to them,'' said Katie
Levinson, a campaign spokeswoman for the governor. ``What you saw today was the
governor taking real questions from real people. They weren't scripted.

``He enjoys the back-and-forth. He enjoys being out with people who agree with
him and people who disagree with him alike.''

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              396 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            July 26, 2006 Wednesday

Schwarzenegger on hot seat;
VOTERS GRILL GOVERNOR ON IMMIGRATION AT Q&A

BYLINE: Kate Folmar, Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words


A heavily Republican crowd grilled Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger during a campaign
appearance in San Diego County on Tuesday, badgering the governor to justify his
position on immigration.

Typically, such sessions are a breeze for the gregarious governor, in part
because they are publicized among local Republicans to ensure a heavy partisan
turnout. Less so Tuesday, when Schwarzenegger, who is seeking a second term, saw
firsthand how incendiary an issue immigration still is for many Republicans.

Some political analysts believe the governor is pushing the boundaries of how
much he can woo Latinos before he risks alienating his party faithful.
Immigration ranked as the No. 1 concern among Republican voters in a major poll
released Tuesday.

During a question-and-answer session with 150 people at Harry Griffen Park in La
Mesa, the governor never lost his composure, but he did lose at least one vote.

Where precisely are the National Guard members now along the border with Mexico,
asked 66-year-old Sally Plata, who later identified herself as a volunteer with
the Minuteman Project border patrol.

``I voted for you. And right now, I don't see much difference between you and
Phil Angelines,'' Plata said, mispronouncing the name of the governor's
Democratic challenger. ``I don't see that you're standing up for the citizens of
California,'' she said to scattered boos and applause from different factions of
the audience.

``Well, thank you for the compliment,'' the governor joked. National Guard
members are indeed on duty at the border now. But he understands the
``frustration'' because the federal government has done a ``terrible job'' on
immigration.

Then came a question from a woman who likened Schwarzenegger to Ronald Reagan
and asked politely for a photograph with him. But she also quoted a local talk
radio host, saying she wanted ``my country back'' from illegal immigrants.

The governor was empathetic, but added, `I think it's very important to never
get mad at anyone that is trying to come to this country,'' some of whom are
fleeing economic ``misery,'' the governor said. Direct the anger at the federal
government.

As the governor spoke, Plata interjected from the crowd.

``Please don't interrupt me when I talk. Thank you very much,'' Schwarzenegger
bristled. ``I let you talk also.''

A Field Poll released Tuesday showed Schwarzenegger leading Phil Angelides by 8
percentage points. And he enjoys 85 percent support from the GOP.

Insurance agency owner Brad Boswell belongs to the other 15 percent of
Republicans. The self-described law-and-order activist drilled in on the
governor's parole policies.

Schwarzenegger has been far more receptive than his predecessor to the parole
pleas of murderers, kidnappers and others serving life terms in the state prison
system. As of this spring, the governor had permitted parole for 116 ``lifers,''
most of them convicted murderers, according to parole board data. That's only a
fraction of the people eligible for parole.

``I'm very, very concerned about your record on crime,'' Boswell said.

The governor said he was ``very proud that we have been tough on crime.'' And he
urged passage of the anti-sex-offender Jessica's Law ballot initiative in
November.

Later, Boswell said he would vote for a minor party candidate. ``I'm not
supporting this guy.''

The rest of the governor's day went smoothly. Adoring crowds greeted him at
Sweet Lumpy's BBQ in Temecula. He sampled homemade guacamole and bought $30.79
worth of grapes and strawberries at Tom's Farms in Corona. He posed for
countless photos at a Starbucks in the upscale Victoria Gardens mall in Rancho
Cucamonga.

Speaking to reporters who followed his green campaign bus all day,
Schwarzenegger said the vigorous give-and-take seen in La Mesa was ``terrific,''
because it lets him know what Californians care about. Still, he was startled by
``the intensity of prejudice,'' he heard, including the comment about taking
back California.

Schwarzenegger, who voted for the anti-illegal-immigrant Proposition 187 in
1994, also explained his recent statement to the Spanish-language newspaper La
Opinión that he was wrong to do so.

The governor has long said all kids deserve access to education, and more
recently, he also has piped up for health care for all kids -- flouting the
spirit of Proposition 187. Still, Angelides accused him of an ``election year
conversion'' on the matter.

Schwarzenegger said his philosophy had changed because of his experiences ``in
the trenches'' of youth sports and after-school programs. ``Maybe that will rub
some people the wrong way, so be it.''

Staff writers Howard Mintz and Edwin Garcia contributed to this report. Contact
Kate Folmar at kfolmar@mercurynews.com or (916) 441-4602 and read her at the
www.mercextra.com/politics blog.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              397 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 1, 2006 Tuesday

Radio personality seeks Latino vote;
SPANISH-SPEAKING CELEB LAUNCHES CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Javier C. Hernandez, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 420 words


They rallied by the thousands to protest immigration reforms in May, and now
political leaders want to bring those same Latino voices to the voting booths
come November.

Rock-star Spanish-language radio personality Renán Almendárez Coello -- known to
Spanish-speaking listeners as ``El Cucuy de la Mañana,'' the Spanish-language
equivalent of a ``morning bogeyman'' -- brought his act to town Monday,
launching an ambitious nationwide effort to register 1 million new voters before
Election Day.

``We are visible right now, but we are a silent mass,'' he said in Spanish.
``With the vote, we'll able to speak.''

Coello kicked off his ``Votos por América!'' tour to a cheering,
Latino-dominated crowd of nearly 1,000 adults and children gathered in front of
Mi Pueblo supermarket in East San Jose on Monday morning.

``There are no obstacles,'' he said in Spanish. ``You have to vote in order to
benefit our children, our grandchildren and the undocumented people in this
country.''

Coello hopes to convince immigrants to redirect the passion and energy aroused
during the contentious immigration debate earlier this year to the drive for
voting rights. He compared the push for voter registration to the struggles of
Martin Luther King Jr. and César Chavez.

Charo Martinez, a San Francisco news correspondent with radio station KRZZ, said
the immigration issue has served as a ``wake-up call'' to many longtime Bay Area
residents.

``After the march, the political transformation has been incredible,'' she said,
referring to the massive rallies May 1. ``Now, the community is proactive.''

Organizers said more than 400 people signed up to vote at the event, which also
included an appearance by state Lt. Gov. Cruz Bustamante.

Mercedes Ramirez, who helped register more than 100 new voters, said many
Latinos don't end up voting because they distrust the system. She said Coello's
appearance helped put some of those potential voters at ease.

``He's someone they can trust,'' she said. ``They feel secure when he comes
out.''

Coello, a native of Honduras, began his 10-city mission in San Jose and will end
the touring phase of his campaign in Washington, D.C., on Aug. 11.

While hundreds came to the event for civic reasons, others turned out for the
live mariachi music and the opportunity to snag an autograph from the radio
personality.

``I came for Cucuy,'' yelled one San Jose man, who asked not to be identified
because he is an undocumented immigrant.

Contact Javier C. Hernandez at jhernandez@ mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5411.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              398 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 6, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Couple want to bring niece over to help out

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 776 words


Q I am a U.S. citizen by birth. My wife is a legal resident. She has a ``green
card.'' We are both employed. We have two children, and my wife's daughter is
also living with us. My stepdaughter also has a green card. She is a full-time
college student who helps us with child care. We work during the day. She goes
to school at night and on weekends. This won't last forever, and my wife wants
to bring one of her nieces over here from the Philippines to help with child
care and cleaning the house. The niece from the Philippines is 21. I went to a
lawyer about getting the niece here on an employment-based visa. The lawyer
wants $4,000 to do the paperwork. Can I do the paperwork? Is there any other way
to bring the niece here? We would pay the niece for child care and her services.
The lawyer states it would take two to 2 1/2 years to come over.

D.B.Sunnyvale

A We asked Robert Yabes, director of the immigration program at Catholic
Charities in San Jose. Here's what he said:

``Employment-based immigration is a complicated process, and there have been
many recent changes in procedures and application processing. It would not be
advisable to do it on your own.

`` . . . It would be best for you to schedule another consultation with an
immigration attorney who is an expert in employment-based immigration.

``Prepare all your questions before you meet with the attorney and discuss
whether it is practical and realistic to go this route. If you wish, you can
consult the Yellow Pages or call the Santa Clara County Bar Association Lawyer
Referral Services at (408) 971-6822 or www.sccba.com.''

Immigrants and voting: A forum on the effect of November ballot initiatives on
immigrants will be presented Aug. 19 in Santa Clara.

The forum -- presented by the Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network
(SIREN) -- will be held at the Santa Clara County Office of Human Relations,
1880 Pruneridge Ave.

The forum will be presented in English. Interpretations in Spanish and
Vietnamese are available on request. Call (408) 453-3003, ext. 111 or 112, for
more information.

Ongoing workshops on citizenship SIREN regularly holds workshops for immigrants
interested in applying for citizenship. The workshops include orientation on the
citizenship application process and interview.

English-Vietnamese workshops are held on the first Saturday of the month at the
Tully Library, Family Learning Center, 880 Tully Road, San Jose. For additional
information, call (408) 453-3013.

Workshops in Spanish are held at different times and locations:

On the third Tuesday of the month at 6 p.m. at 880 Tully Road, San Jose.

On the second Tuesday of the month at 10 a.m. at SIREN's office, 1425 Koll
Circle, Suite 103, San Jose.

On the last Tuesday of the month at 6 p.m. at Alum Rock Library, Community Room,
1890 Alum Rock Ave., San Jose.

For additional information on Spanish-language workshops, call (408) 453-3017.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              399 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday

World news in brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 932 words

WEST BANK

Israelis storm home, seize Palestinian official

Israeli soldiers burst into the Ramallah home of the Palestinian deputy prime
minister before dawn Saturday and took him away for questioning, detaining the
highest-ranking Hamas official in a 7-week-old crackdown against the ruling
Islamist group.

Palestinian officials condemned the arrest of Nasser Shaer, a former university
professor known as a pragmatist in Hamas, and accused Israel of undermining
their efforts to form a broad government coalition.

Israel launched its latest crackdown against Hamas, which controls the
Palestinian legislature and Cabinet, shortly after Hamas-allied militants from
the Gaza Strip captured an Israeli soldier in a cross-border raid June 25.
Despite an ongoing Israeli military offensive in the coastal area, the soldier
has not been freed.

The Israelis have arrested eight Hamas Cabinet ministers and more than two dozen
lawmakers, including the speaker of parliament, since late June.

ITALY

Immigrants' boat sinks, killing 10; 40 missing

A boat loaded with illegal immigrants heading from North Africa to Italy sank
south of the Sicilian island of Lampedusa early Saturday, killing at least 10
people and leaving an additional 40 missing and presumed dead, officials said.

An Italian navy ship spotted the boat before dawn Saturday about 11 miles south
of Lampedusa, and sent rescue vessels, said port official Adm. Ferdinando
Lavaggi.

The craft overturned after the migrants -- mostly Moroccans and Egyptians --
moved to one side of the 33-foot boat, he said. The ship's country of origin was
not immediately known.

About 70 people were rescued and 10 bodies were recovered, Lavaggi said. The
rescued migrants told officials 120 people were on board.

VENEZUELA

President tells rally he caught 4 U.S. spies

President Hugo Chávez said Venezuela had caught four people spying for the U.S.
government, but a U.S. Embassy official said Saturday that he had ``no idea what
the president is talking about.''

Without offering specifics, Chávez said one woman was caught not long ago while
taking photos in the north-central city of Valencia.

``I've caught four of their spies, four, and I've put them back in their
hands,'' Chávez told a campaign rally in western Venezuela on Friday night.

CONGO

Historic election looks set for October runoff

President Joseph Kabila's lead Saturday in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo's historic presidential election was below the majority needed to avoid a
runoff, a day before the deadline for a preliminary tally of votes.

If none of the 33 presidential candidates wins an outright majority in Congo's
first multiparty elections in decades, the two front-runners will enter a second
round of voting, likely in October.

A preliminary countrywide tally was expected to be announced today and a final
tally Aug. 31. The government of the former Zaire has counted and verified 11.7
million ballots out of an estimated 20 million cast. It has not given a precise
number for voter turnout.

Kabila received only 48 percent of the counted and verified votes.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              400 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday

Spouse-sponsored resident qualifies to be citizen sooner

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words


Q  My wife, who is a U.S. citizen, sponsored me a year ago for a permanent
resident card. I had heard that it takes three years to apply for citizenship
when sponsored by one's spouse instead of five years like it is for all other
types of sponsorships. Is this true?

Darren MokoolSan Jose

A  To qualify to apply for U.S. citizenship, an immigrant must be a permanent
resident for at least five years, according to Adriana Gonzalez, immigration and
citizenship program director at the Center for Employment Training in San Jose.

You guessed right. The waiting period is, yes, only three years when your
application is sponsored by a spouse who is a U.S. citizen. The other
requirement is that you also must have been married to the U.S. citizen for
three years,  said Gonzalez, who is a federally accredited representative for
the Board of Immigration Appeals.

The other requirements -- good moral character, residency, language proficiency,
physical presence in the United States, knowledge of U.S. government and history
-- all apply, she said.

The employment center offers free individual appointments for immigrants who
have been legal permanent residents, or ``green card'' holders, for five years,
who are interested in applying for U.S. citizenship. For more information or to
sign up, call the center, in English/Spanish at (408) 534-5451, and in
Vietnamese (408) 534-5247.

Citizenship informational workshop: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services will present a workshop, ``Overview of Naturalization,'' on Tuesday,
Sept. 12, in San Jose.

It will be conducted in English from 6 to 8 p.m., at the Mexican American
Community Services Agency, San Jose Youth Center, 660 Sinclair Drive, San Jose.

It is free, but the public is asked to confirm attendance by calling the
reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

Ongoing workshops on citizenship:  Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education
Network in San Jose regularly holds workshops for immigrants interested in
applying for citizenship. The workshops include orientation on the citizenship
application process and interview.

For information on English-Vietnamese workshops, call (408) 453-3013.

For Spanish workshops, call (408) 453-3017.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif., 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              401 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             August 20, 2006 Sunday

Spouse-sponsored resident qualifies to be citizen sooner

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1023 words


Q My wife, who is a U.S. citizen, sponsored me a year ago for a permanent
resident card. I had heard that it takes three years to apply for citizenship
when sponsored by one's spouse instead of five years like it is for all other
types of sponsorships. Is this true?

Darren MokoolSan Jose

A To qualify to apply for U.S. citizenship, an immigrant must be a permanent
resident for at least five years, according to Adriana Gonzalez, immigration and
citizenship program director at the Center for Employment Training in San Jose.

You guessed right. The waiting period is, yes, only three years when your
application is sponsored by a spouse who is a U.S. citizen. The other
requirement is that you also must have been married to the U.S. citizen for
three years, said Gonzalez, who is a federally accredited representative for the
Board of Immigration Appeals.

The other requirements -- good moral character, residency, language proficiency,
physical presence in the United States, knowledge of U.S. government and history
-- all apply, she said.

The employment center offers free individual appointments for immigrants who
have been legal permanent residents, or ``green card'' holders, for five years,
who are interested in applying for U.S. citizenship. For more information or to
sign up, call the center, in English/Spanish at (408) 534-5451, and in
Vietnamese (408) 534-5247.

CITIZENSHIP INFORMATIONAL WORKSHOP: The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services will present a workshop, ``Overview of Naturalization,'' on Tuesday,
Sept. 12, in San Jose.

It will be conducted in English from 6 to 8 p.m., at the Mexican American
Community Services Agency, San Jose Youth Center, 660 Sinclair Drive, San Jose.

It is free, but the public is asked to confirm attendance by calling the
reservation line: (408) 918-3986.

ONGOING WORKSHOPS ON CITIZENSHIP: Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education
Network in San Jose regularly holds workshops for immigrants interested in
applying for citizenship. The workshops include orientation on the citizenship
application process and interview.

For information on English-Vietnamese workshops, call (408) 453-3013. For
Spanish workshops, call (408) 453-3017.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif., 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              402 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            August 24, 2006 Thursday

Is the West ready to face the hard facts about immigration?

BYLINE: Patrick J. Buchanan

SECTION: A; Pg. OP2

LENGTH: 852 words


In April 1968, only days after Dr. King had been assassinated and riots had
erupted in 100 American cities, there arose in England to raise the alarm on the
explosive issue of immigration from the Third World a hero of the war and
scholar of the classics, the Tory shadow minister of state for defense, Enoch
Powell.

``The supreme function of statesmanship,'' Powell began, ``is to provide against
preventable evils. . . . The discussion of future grave but, with effort now,
avoidable evils is the most unpopular and at the same time the most necessary
occupation for the politician.''

``Only resolute and urgent action,'' said Powell, could avert the ``horror''
unfolding on the far side of the Atlantic. As he spoke, the immigrant flow into
Britain from the Commonwealth nations of Africa, Asia and the Caribbean was
50,000 a year, a trickle compared with the 1.2 million legal and illegal
immigrants who have been entering the United States every year for a generation.

Powell warned that if stern action were not taken to stem the tide, by 2000, 5
million to 7 million Third World people would be there.

``It is like watching a nation busily engaged in heaping up its own funeral
pyre,'' Powell thundered. Then he spoke the words that ended his brilliant
career: ``As I look ahead, I am filled with foreboding; like the Roman, I seem
to see `the River Tiber foaming with much blood.' ''

Powell was instantly gone from the shadow cabinet, dropped by Edward Heath for
what that future prime minister called a speech ``racialist in tone, and liable
to exacerbate racial tensions.''

Five years after Powell's ``Rivers of Blood'' speech, French writer Jean Raspail
stunned Europe with his allegory, ``Le Camp Des Saints.''

Raspail described a ``Last Chance Armada'' of a million diseased and destitute
from the hellholes of Calcutta who embark aboard a fleet of leaky and decrepit
ships and steer round the Cape of Good Hope to Europe -- to be taken in, or die.
As the armada enters the Mediterranean and reaches the Riviera, the French
government, awash in humanitarian liberalism, refuses to repel the invaders and
invites them in. Around the world, the wretched of the earth watch the
television reports, and wait. When the Last Chance Armada triumphs, they emerge
in an orgy of looting, rape and pillage to overrun the fat rich lands of the
West, ``the Camp of the Saints.''

Though many reviewers were repelled, the novel was a smashing success, with some
comparing Raspail's work to Camus' ``The Plague'' and Swift's ``Gulliver's
Travels.'' ``One of the most chilling books of this generation,'' wrote James J.
Kilpatrick. ``Our children and grandchildren may soon discover that Jean Raspail
wrote not fiction, but fact.''

In 2004, Raspail surfaced in Le Figaro to accuse the French elite of treason.
``La Patrie Trahie par la Republique,'' the title of his essay, translates,
``The Fatherland Betrayed by the Republic.''

By ``the Republic,'' Raspail meant not just the Fifth Republic of Mitterand and
Chirac, but France's ideology of inclusiveness rooted in the Revolution's
ideology of ``liberté, egalité, fraternité.''Alluding to the waves of immigrants
from Africa, the Middle East, the Caribbean and Asia, Raspail grimly asserted:
``The deed is done. . . . All of Europe marches to its death.''

Raspail recalled the 1974 threat of Algerian President Houari Boumedienne: ``No
amount of atomic bombs will be able to dam up the tidal wave comprising human
beings in their millions which one day will leave the southernmost and poor part
of the world, to swamp the relatively open spaces of the wealthy northern
hemisphere, in search of survival.''

Europe denounced and dismissed both men as racists. Now we learn that 19 of
those captured plotting to blow up 10 airliners over the Atlantic were
British-born Pakistanis. The suicide bombers of the London subway were
British-born Asians. Richard Reid's father was Jamaican. Alienated, he was drawn
to an ultra-radical mosque, before attempting mass murder over the Atlantic.

Race riots have since plagued the industrial cities of northern England. In
France last summer, thousands of French citizens of north African descent rioted
and pillaged in the banlieus of Paris and 300 other cities, until President
Chirac, after 12 days, finally declared a national emergency. Zacarias
Moussaoui, the ``20th hijacker,'' was a French citizen. The Madrid bombers were
immigrants or the children of immigrants, as was the daylight murderer of Dutch
filmmaker Theo van Gogh.

The Sept. 11 terrorists plotted mass murders in Munich, Arizona and Delray
Beach, Fla. President Bush says they hate democracy.

No, Mr. President, they hate us.

Powell and Raspail were ostracized for what they said and wrote. Their stories
are related in my new book, ``State of Emergency: The Third World Invasion and
Conquest of America.'' Time to revisit the question: Were these men false
prophets rightly reviled, or prophets without honor in their own countries?

PATRICK J. BUCHANAN, author of the new book ``State of Emergency: The Third
World Invasion and Conquest of America,'' is a syndicated columnist.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              403 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 5, 2006 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Low tally at immigration rally;
COMPLACENCY HIGH, TURNOUT LOW AS CONGRESS STALLED ON BILL

BYLINE: Joe Rodriguez, Mercury News

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 995 words


More like a steady stream than a throbbing ocean this time, several thousand
immigrant-rights supporters in the Bay Area marched under a brilliant sun and
blue skies to celebrate the value of undocumented labor on Labor Day.

Martin Iniquez knew as soon as he arrived at King and Story roads in East San
Jose that Monday's turnout of at least 8,000 would fall far short of the 135,000
who gathered in the same spot this past spring.

``I think the people are too confident,'' said the undocumented maintenance man
from Salida, a small town near Modesto. Wearing white, the official color of the
fledgling immigrant rights movement, the 42-year-old Mexican native lifted an
8-foot flag pole with one hand.

``You should never let your guard down,'' he said before unfurling the Stars and
Stripes.

Like other marchers, Iniquez thought Monday's turnout was respectable but
suffered from a widespread complacency that Congress would not revisit the
stalemated debate over illegal immigration before the November election. That
contest pitched a punitive House Republican bill against a lenient Senate bill
offering some form of amnesty and a path to U.S. citizenship.

And with Congress apparently taking a breather on immigration, large labor
unions that organized last spring's national marches and Spanish-language talk
show hosts who zealously endorsed the demonstrations also took a break.

In San Jose, a starting crowd estimated by San Jose police at 4,000 people grew
to 8,000 or 10,000 when it arrived at City Hall four miles away. Police reported
no arrests, but escorted away two anti-illegal-immigrant demonstrators after a
tense confrontation at City Hall where the two-hour long march ended.

Crowds were much smaller across the Bay Area as well. San Francisco reported
3,000 marchers and Oakland, 2,500.

In East San Jose, the mood was festive, upbeat, optimistic and family-oriented.

The sights and sounds were familiar: a continual chant of slogans and marching
drums, the jingle of ice-cream vendors, a sea of sombreros and pink and yellow
parasols, mothers strolling babies, kids skipping along in the streets, and an
encyclopedic collection of T-shirt slogans such as ``We are America,'' ``Si Se
Puede'' and ``United We Stand.''

A young Mexican couple, Alfredo and Marta Sanchez, brought their young sons
rather than attend a picnic.

``Going to the park today wasn't going to get us anywhere, but coming here
will,'' said Alfredo, 31, a drywaller. ``We just want people to know that we're
not thieves. We're workers and we're honest people.''

That sentiment prevailed at other rallies across the country Monday: About 3,000
immigrant-rights supporters gathered for a rally in Chicago; about 900 assembled
in Phoenix; 500 in Dallas; and 400 showed up in a Los Angeles suburb not far
from where 400,000 marched last spring.

Even the counter-marches by anti-illegal-immigration groups drew fewer people.

In San Jose, about two dozen protesters gathered on the Cypress Street overpass
on Highway 280 waving American flags and speaking out against any reforms that
permit illegal immigrants to remain in the United States.

Roberta Allen, who organized the demonstration, showed up in red, white and blue
garb, even wearing contact lenses tinted with the stars and stripes.

Linda Jurickovich of Santa Clara was typical of those who attended the rally,
saying she'd finally reached a ``boiling point'' over the consequences of a
porous border. She also wanted to honor her grandparents, legal immigrants from
Yugoslavia, and to send a message to her 9-year-old son.

``I'm not anti-immigration at all,'' Jurickovich said. ``I'm anti-illegal
immigration.''

Meanwhile in San Francisco, some labor and anti-Bush groups joined immigrants in
a boisterous march of more than 2,000 in downtown, beating drums and singing in
the streets.

``We are people. We are humans. We came here to work, not to steal anything,''
said Carlos Rosales, 35, of San Leandro, a legal U.S. resident who arrived from
Mexico City in 1990 and runs a trucking business.

A goal of the immigrant-rights movement is to draw in newcomers and supporters
who hail from other nations, not just from Mexico. As with this past spring, the
crowd in East San Jose was predominantly Mexican and Mexican-American, but there
were visible smatterings of Central Americans, white, black, Filipinos and other
Asian Americans.

Masao Suzuki and Jiro Saito showed up with a huge white-and-black banner
inscribed in Japanese: ``Asians for Immigrant Rights.''

A leader with the Nihonmachi Outreach Committee in San Jose, Suzuki said
Japanese-Americans and today's Mexican immigrants share more than a little in
common.

``Personally, I'm here because my grandfather was undocumented,'' Suzuki said.
``He jumped off a boat in San Francisco and swam ashore.''

He noted the similarity between attitudes about Asians then and Latinos now --
``that they won't speak English, can't assimilate, depress wages, cost a lot in
welfare -- they said that about Asians a long time ago.''

Chester Toney, 64, a retired chef in San Jose, volunteers with Community
Ministry Homeless Alliance.

``Shelters are for women and children,'' he said. ``Homeless people aren't just
drunks. A lot are immigrants.''

Sam McCauslin, a 64-year-old white American from San Jose, teaches English to
Asian kids at a private school. He was there to ``show support for people who
work hard and get paid low wages. All Americans are working harder and making
less money. We're all in the same boat.''

Perhaps the last word of the day went Juan Guevara, a flag vendor with an
entrepreneurial spirit. Asked which flags were selling best, he said, ``Way more
American flags!''

CorrectionA Page One story Tuesday about the Labor Day immigration-rights march
in San Jose carried the wrong first name of a local man. His correct name is Dan
McCauslin.

Staff Writers Lisa Fernandez and Howard Mintz contributed to this report.
Contact Joe Rodriguez at (408) 920-5767 or jrodriguez@mercurynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2006



CORRECTION: A Page One story Tuesday about the  Labor Day immigration-rights
march in  San Jose carried the wrong first name of a local man. His correct name
is Dan McCauslin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              404 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 10, 2006 Sunday

Mexican immigrants caught in backlash of terror anxiety

BYLINE: Katherine Corcoran, Mercury News

SECTION: S; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words


Pedro Hernandez came from Mexico with a sixth-grade education and not a word of
English. Ten years later, he is completing his business degree at San Jose State
after mastering a new language, earning a GED and getting his associate's degree
at DeAnza College -- all while working full time.

With drive and ambition that mirror countless immigrants', Hernandez wonders why
he now is linked in the public discourse with the so-called war on terror.

``For some crazy reason this thing is focused on people from Latin America,''
the 26-year-old San Jose man said. ``I'm being seen like an enemy.''

The attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, had an outsize effect on the longstanding
immigration debate in America. Literally the day before Sept. 11, the news was
full of accounts of President Bush and his Mexican counterpart, Vicente Fox,
drafting an amnesty plan for Mexicans already in the United States.

When the World Trade Center towers fell, talk of an immigration plan ceased this
side of the border, only to re-emerge four years later in the form of a
congressional bill aimed at blocking and deporting undocumented workers.

It was drafted in part in the name of fighting terror, despite the fact that the
Sept. 11 terrorists were from Arab countries and entered the United States for
the most part legally. And to date, not a single terror act or plot has involved
a Mexican immigrant.

But many say the national climate of fear after the attacks made it easy for
people to link a new security threat with an old one: the social and cultural
impact of undocumented immigrants, who stream over the Mexican border at an
estimated rate of 500,000 a year.

Sept. 11 was a ``freebie'' to those who favor cracking down on undocumented
immigration, said Heather Mac Donald, a fellow with the conservative Manhattan
Institute, who favors tough border enforcement.

``Most Islamic terrorists are not going to take their chances with a coyote on
the Mexican border,'' Mac Donald said. ``But it's not specious or in bad faith
for people who otherwise want strict border controls and stricter immigration
policy to raise the terror issue.

``If you can't keep day laborers out,'' she added, ``you can't keep terrorists
out.''

The implied links are everywhere. Late last month, both Democrats and
Republicans came under attack for inciting voter emotions by associating Latino
immigrants with terror threats in campaign ads.

In one case, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee pulled an Internet ad
after Latinos complained that it put images of people presumably running across
the Mexican border next to Osama bin Laden and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il
and asked ``Feel secure?''

In another, the National Republican Senatorial Committee sponsored an ad on
behalf of Sen. Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island. The ad accused Chafee's opponent
of being soft on terror because as a mayor, he allowed police to accept
identification cards issued by the Mexican Consulate.

``Your ad shamefully demonizes Latinos by falsely implying that Mexican
immigrants will carry out acts of terrorism against government buildings and
airplanes,'' the Democratic National Committee's Hispanic Caucus wrote to
Republican committee chair Elizabeth Dole. ``Such divisive, misleading innuendos
recklessly incite fear for what can only be a calculated attempt to win an
election by scapegoating.''

Latinos, whether illegal or U.S. citizens, report an impact from such
connections.

In a recent poll by the National Council for Community and Justice, Latinos were
the only ethnic group besides Muslims to report more incidents of discrimination
since 2000.

``They have to find someone to blame, and the easiest are the weakest who don't
have a voice or a vote,'' said Juan David Garcia, 30, an alcohol and drug
counselor in East Palo Alto.

Imelda Rodriguez, also of East Palo Alto, runs her own cleaning business, works
part time at Planned Parenthood, volunteers for an anti-domestic violence group
and studies English and nursing at Cañada College.

``I'm not a criminal. I'm all those things,'' she said. But the security debate
has made her feel her status as a foreigner more than ever. ``Because of
appearance,'' she added, ``because of my accent.''

While some link Mexican immigrants with terror, to many, the real ``threat'' is
a cultural one, with 12 million undocumented residents and more coming every
day.

``Unlike past immigrant groups, Mexicans and other Latinos have not assimilated
into mainstream U.S. culture, forming instead their own political and linguistic
enclaves . . . and rejecting the Anglo-Protestant values that built the American
dream,'' Harvard Professor Samuel P. Huntington wrote in Foreign Policy in 2004
as an excerpt from his book, ``Who Are We? The Challenges to America's National
Identity.''

``The United States ignores this challenge at its peril,'' Huntington wrote.

While some Americans already feared outsiders, Sept. 11 allowed them to express
the feeling more freely, critics of the current environment said.

``The idea that Mexicans are a threat to the prevailing culture is exacerbated
when we are at war or there's an outside threat. `We have to be united,' '' said
Gaspar Rivera-Salgado of the New Americans Immigration Museum and Learning
Center in San Diego. Sept. 11, he added, brought forth notions of how we think
about our country and who's a good citizen or not. ``Minorities and immigrants
especially bear the brunt of that.''

The 2000 U.S. Census data, coincidentally released in the summer of 2001 just
before the terror attacks, highlighted a significant demographic shift with the
rapid growth of Latinos. The nation percolated with talk of the ``browning'' of
America. Today, America's Latino transformation, confirmed in an August census
update, has usurped all race conversations of the past.

``The rise in racism and xenophobia is real because people have the right to
voice their fear of other people in the most egregious terms,'' said Bart
Charlow, executive director of the Silicon Valley chapter of the National
Conference for Community and Justice.

But others say Sept. 11 gave border restrictionists a platform to discuss the
social and economic implications of undocumented immigration without being
assigned ugly motives.

``Talking about security makes it easier to talk about immigration without being
called a racist,'' Mac Donald said. ``It does allow you to have cover against
what is an unfortunate charge.''

Contact Katherine Corcoran at kcorcoran@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5330.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              405 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday

GOP eager to approve fence bill for border;
SOME SENATORS NOW READY TO EMBRACE HOUSE'S APPROACH

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 551 words


House Republicans on Wednesday launched a renewed bid to stiffen border security
and rally voters, unveiling a bill that would mandate construction of 700 miles
of fencing in highly populated areas along the U.S. border with Mexico.

The House is to vote today on the Secure Fence Act, which requires the
Department of Homeland Security to prevent ``all unlawful entries'' into the
United States, pushes for border agents to use more force and calls for more
border surveillance using cameras, sensors and satellites.

The new bill is the first of several focused on border security measures House
leaders say they will introduce in coming weeks. It represents the latest effort
by House Republicans to build momentum for an enforcement-only approach, which
they insist -- despite objections from the Senate and President Bush -- is the
best way to repair broken U.S. immigration policies.

Security first

``House Republicans believe we must address the immediate need to secure our
borders,'' said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., chairman of the House Homeland Security
Committee.

The Secure Fence Act is expected to pass. When it goes to the Senate, it will
present a challenge for the bipartisan group of senators who back their
chamber's broader approach to immigration.

Senate legislation approved in May would allow illegal immigrants to gain legal
status and create a guest-worker program in addition to increasing enforcement,
in part by building a 370-mile fence on the southern border.

Senators will have to decide whether to support the new House bill and risk
losing any leverage they have to get the House to support non-enforcement
measures, such as the guest-worker program. If they vote against the House bill,
they face being tarred as weak on security in an election year.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., has called on Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist,
R-Tenn., to embrace the House approach and declare the Senate bill ``dead.''

Referring to the congressional deadlock over immigration, Sessions wrote to
Frist on Wednesday, declaring: ``We are not close to . . . a consensus now. The
best solution is to go forward with strong immigration enforcement.''

Campaign issue

Democrats noted that House Republicans were introducing the new bill at a time
when the GOP, vulnerable in several election campaigns, needs an issue to rally
voters.

``It's so transparent,'' said Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., adding
that he hoped Latino voters would see through the Republican gambit.

``We believe in comprehensive immigration reform,'' Reid said. ``We believe
there should be a program to bring 12 million people out of the shadows.''

Most provisions in the new bill were taken from the get-tough immigration
legislation the House passed in December. That bill bolstered enforcement at the
border, in the workplace and inside the United States. It also made it a felony
to be in the United States illegally or to help someone who is -- provisions
that helped trigger massive demonstrations in May.

House leaders say the new fence bill and the measures that will follow are
products of the immigration hearings they held across the country this summer.
Though the hearings were described as an effort to find out what the public
thinks about immigration and border security, they did not allow for public
participation.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              406 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 15, 2006 Friday

House approves bill to put fence on border;
SENATE ON BOARD DESPITE ABSENCE OF REFORM MEASURES

BYLINE: Nicole Gaouette, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 676 words


The House on Thursday easily passed a bill calling for construction of lengthy
sections of double-layered fencing along the U.S. border with Mexico, sending
the legislation to a Senate that appears inclined to approve it and other
security measures.

The 283-138 vote demonstrated that even as Capitol Hill remains deadlocked over
what to do with the millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States
or whether to establish a guest-worker program, bipartisan support exists for
significantly toughening border security -- especially as the November election
nears.

Though House Republicans stressed that enforcement should come ``first,'' they
gave no indication of when, or even whether, they would support broader
immigration measures, such as a guest-worker program, that are supported by the
Senate, President Bush and farmers and other businesses nationwide.

House Republicans touted the fence bill as the first phase of a larger
border-security package that they also unveiled Thursday. It includes a measure
that would make it a crime to dig border tunnels and another that would end a
provision in immigration law that protects Salvadorans from deportation.

Increasingly, gangs with roots in El Salvador are a significant crime problem.

The bill -- which includes 700 miles of double-layered fencing -- mandates the
construction of fencing around Tecate and Calexico, and in heavily populated
areas of Texas, New Mexico and Arizona. The nearly 2,000-mile border now has
about 75 miles of fencing.

The bill requires the Department of Homeland Security to prevent ``all unlawful
entries into the United States'' within 18 months after the bill is enacted,
urges the department to allow Border Patrol agents to use greater force against
smuggler vehicles and orders a study on security at the northern border with
Canada.

House leaders said they were working with the Senate to determine how to put the
measures before President Bush as quickly as possible. House Majority Leader
John Boehner, R-Ohio, said Congress should finish considering all of them by the
end of September.

``Republicans believe we can have a no-penetration border,'' said House Speaker
Dennis Hastert, R-Ill. Of the fence proposal, he said, ``If we build it, they
will no longer come illegally.''

Asked when the House might back a guest-worker program or other non-enforcement
measures, Hastert said: ``If we get a virtual no-penetration program on the
border, then we can look at a lot of things.''

Debate on overhauling immigration laws has been deadlocked for months.

Enforcement is a priority for the Senate, but many senators believe it cannot
work effectively unless it is accompanied by a guest-worker program, which would
meet the labor needs of the agricultural and hospitality industries, and a
program to draw the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States
into the legal system -- a position favored by Bush. Those provisions were in a
bill approved by the Senate in May.

Some senators expressed cautious support for the House border-security package,
even as they pointed to elements they thought it lacked.

``I'm not going to take a position against it,'' said Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla.,
who helped write the Senate-passed bill. But, he added, the House bill is ``not
comprehensive immigration reform.''

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who wrote a bill criminalizing the construction
of tunnels under the border, said she was ``delighted'' to see a similar measure
in the House border-security package. But she expressed disappointment that
there was no provision to help farmers gain access to workers.

With California in the middle of its peak harvest season and Florida's orange
harvest set to begin next month, agriculture is a concern for lawmakers of all
political stripes. Rep. Adam Putnam, R-Fla., who chaired the all-Republican
meeting that led to the border-security package, appeared at a Wednesday rally
organized by farmers, restaurant owners and other businesses dependent on
immigrant labor.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              407 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 17, 2006 Sunday

Immigrants' plight fuels Los Lobos

BYLINE: Agustin Gurza, Los Angeles Times

SECTION: AE; Pg. UP

LENGTH: 377 words


While politicians and protesters were busy marching and making speeches on
immigration in recent months, Los Lobos, the acclaimed Latino rockers from East
Los Angeles, were preparing their own statement on the subject.

The result is the outstanding new album, ``The Town and the CIty,'' in stores
last week. It's a subtle, suggestive and at times ambiguous look at an issue
often drawn in trite extremes of pro and con.

The set of 13 evocative songs clearly is told from an immigrant's point of view,
as you might expect from four Mexican-Americans (and one white fellow traveler)
who have found fame and stature, if not fortune, while remaining loyal,
artistically and personally, to their barrio roots.

But in a debate where talk is cheap, the strength of this work rests heavily on
what's left unsaid. This is an album in which the very sequence of songs
suggests meaning and connection.

Because immigration always is a journey, the album opens with ``The Valley,''
evoking the dawn of a new life in a promised land. But already, layers of sonic
dissonance are creating an unsettling undercurrent. Dreams of arrival
immediately turn into the droning, chain-gang blues of ``Hold On,'' about the
oppressive drudgery of low-skill work:

Killing myself just to keep alive.

Killing myself to survive.

The songs go on to explore the unexpected changes immigration always brings to
those who undertake it. The lively, carefree ``Chuco's Cumbia,'' with its hot
sax, serves as transition to a new culture. But ``Little Things'' laments the
loss of values, and ``Don't Ask Why'' the emptiness of shattered illusions.

Near the end, the gospel-tinged ``Free Up'' urges a philosophical adjustment.
Happiness comes to those who wait -- for the peace of death:

When it comes my time,

you won't find me cryin'.

When I'm gone,

everything will be fine.

Yet the album closes with the torn and unsettled yearning of ``The Town.'' Where
has the journey led us? Full circle to dreams of a better place, always out of
reach:

I can go there when I dream.

I close my eyes and it's all I see --

the town where I come from.

`The Town and the City'

by Los Lobos (Hollywood Records)

1/2

Los Lobos

on a bill with Calexico

Where: the Fillmore, San Francisco

When: Dec. 8 and 9

Tickets: $36.50

Information: (415) 346-6000

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              408 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 17, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: Marriage, tourist visa a powerful combination

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 557 words


Q I am a naturalized citizen who recently married someone who overstayed. We had
planned to get married a long time ago, but my divorce was not yet final.

I want to file an I-130 and I-485 for her. Do you think I have to pay any
penalty for her overstaying? What are the chances of adjusting her status?

I.R.San Jose

A We asked Ilona Bray, an attorney from Berkeley and author of the book ``Fiance
and Marriage Visas,'' to answer your question. Here's what she wrote by e-mail:

``The two most important things you told me are that you are a U.S. citizen and
that your wife apparently last entered the United States legally, using a visa.
That's a power-packed combination. It means you are one of the few couples who
are eligible to use a procedure called ``adjustment of status,'' allowing your
wife to complete all her paperwork in the United States, without traveling to an
overseas consulate.

``You can file your I-130, I-485 and other forms and documents in one package,
at a Citizenship and Immigration Services service center in the United States.

``You won't need to pay any penalty fee, just the usual fees, which are high
enough! The service center will, after some initial processing, transfer your
case to a local CIS office, The two of you will be scheduled for an interview
once you prove that your marriage is the real thing, that the two of you can
support yourself financially, and your wife hasn't committed certain criminal,
drug or immigration violations, or has a communicable disease or mental
disorder.

``There is, however, one more important thing you didn't tell me. When your wife
entered the United States on her visa, was it actually with the intention of
marrying you? If your wife used a tourist visa to get here, all the time knowing
that she wanted to marry you as soon as your divorce was final, that could be a
problem.

``Immigration authorities could interpret it as a form of visa fraud, and deny
your wife the `green card' on that basis. The fact that you married some time
after her U.S. entry is probably a point in her favor. Still, you'd be wise to
consult a lawyer to talk over the particular facts.''

Free Citizenship Orientation: The Immigration & Citizenship Program of the
Center for Employment Training will hold orientation sessions for legal
permanent residents who have lived in the United States for at least five years,
and for green card holders who have been married to U.S. citizens for three
years.

The session on the citizenship application process and interview preparation
will be held Saturday, Sept. 23 at CET, 701 Vine St., San Jose.

For additional information or to sign up for the workshop, call (408) 534-5451
in English and Spanish. In Vietnamese, call (408) 534-5247.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercuryn ews.com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              409 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 26, 2006 Tuesday

California News in Brief

SECTION: BRIEFS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words

SANTA ROSA

Karr might sidestep five child-porn charges

A judge said Monday that she will consider a motion from John Mark Karr's
attorney to dismiss child pornography possession charges against the former
suspect in the death of JonBenet Ramsey.

Defense attorney Robert Amparan planned to ask Superior Court Judge Cerena Wong
on Wednesday to dismiss five misdemeanor charges in the 2001 case, after Sonoma
County sheriff's officials revealed last week that the computer that allegedly
held the illicit images was lost.

Wong criticized Chief Deputy District Attorney Joann Risse for not telling her
that the computer was lost although she has known about it since Aug. 30.

SACRAMENTO

Immigration officials arrest 109, deport 98

Federal officials on Monday said they arrested 109 immigration violators from
Sacramento to Stockton last week, including seven who had criminal records.

By Monday, 98 had been deported, according to U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. The remaining 11 were in federal custody awaiting deportation
hearings.

ICE officials said the sweep was part of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security's broader effort to improve border security, target businesses that
hire illegal immigrants and deport those in the United States illegally.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              410 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: File visa petition in U.S. to get the ball rolling

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 487 words


Q I am an American citizen. My Dad has a multiple-entry visa and my Mom has a
tourist visa. I want to file an immigration petition on their behalf but I am
confused. Should they come here first, then file the petition, or should I start
the petition now while they are still in the Philippines? Also my Dad wants to
work here but he can't because he is not a resident and needs a work visa. What
is your best advice about this? Can my Dad and I start a business here together?

Maria ColomaNewark

A We asked Rosario Maria Hernandez, an immigration attorney from Concord, to
answer your question. Here's what she wrote:

``You have the right to file the petition for your parents while they are in the
Philippines. They can apply for their lawful permanent resident status through
the U.S. Consulate in Manila, Philippines.

``Once you file the petition, if they travel to the United States while their
petition is pending, the Department of Homeland Security may ask them if they
have a pending petition, and if so, further inquire whether they have any
intentions of staying in the United States.

``The basis for their non-immigrant visas is that they are not abandoning their
residency in the Philippines and if they enter the United States with a
non-immigrant visa with the intention of eventually staying to apply for their
residency, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services -- the agency that will
adjudicate their applications here in the United States -- can conclude that
they misrepresented information to an immigration officer or a consular officer.

``Your father may not work in this country with a visitor's visa. However, a
person who decides to adjust their status in the United States is eligible for
an employment authorization document while waiting for the USCIS to adjudicate
his or her adjustment-of-status application.''

Hernandez suggests that you consult with an experienced immigration lawyer.

Workshop on citizenship: Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network
(SIREN) will hold a workshop on the process of applying for citizenship Oct. 7.

The workshop will be from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Tully Library, in the Family
Learning Center, 880 Tully Road, San Jose.

It will be conducted in English and Vietnamese. For additional information in
Vietnamese and English, call (408) 453-3013.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews .com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              411 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday

Immigrant Experience: File visa petition in U.S. to get the ball rolling

BYLINE: Jessie Mangaliman, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 487 words


Q I am an American citizen. My Dad has a multiple-entry visa and my Mom has a
tourist visa. I want to file an immigration petition on their behalf but I am
confused. Should they come here first, then file the petition, or should I start
the petition now while they are still in the Philippines? Also my Dad wants to
work here but he can't because he is not a resident and needs a work visa. What
is your best advice about this? Can my Dad and I start a business here together?

Maria ColomaNewark

A We asked Rosario Maria Hernandez, an immigration attorney from Concord, to
answer your question. Here's what she wrote:

``You have the right to file the petition for your parents while they are in the
Philippines. They can apply for their lawful permanent resident status through
the U.S. Consulate in Manila, Philippines.

``Once you file the petition, if they travel to the United States while their
petition is pending, the Department of Homeland Security may ask them if they
have a pending petition, and if so, further inquire whether they have any
intentions of staying in the United States.

``The basis for their non-immigrant visas is that they are not abandoning their
residency in the Philippines and if they enter the United States with a
non-immigrant visa with the intention of eventually staying to apply for their
residency, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services -- the agency that will
adjudicate their applications here in the United States -- can conclude that
they misrepresented information to an immigration officer or a consular officer.

``Your father may not work in this country with a visitor's visa. However, a
person who decides to adjust their status in the United States is eligible for
an employment authorization document while waiting for the USCIS to adjudicate
his or her adjustment-of-status application.''

Hernandez suggests that you consult with an experienced immigration lawyer.

Workshop on citizenship: Services, Immigrant Rights and Education Network
(SIREN) will hold a workshop on the process of applying for citizenship Oct. 7.

The workshop will be from 3 to 6 p.m. at the Tully Library, in the Family
Learning Center, 880 Tully Road, San Jose.

It will be conducted in English and Vietnamese. For additional information in
Vietnamese and English, call (408) 453-3013.

This information is not intended as legal advice. Any person with questions
about his or her individual circumstances should contact an immigration lawyer,
a state-bonded immigration expert or a federally accredited immigration
representative, and should not rely on general statements made in this column.

Send your questions to immigration@mercurynews. com or fax us at (408) 288-8060.
You can also write to us at: Immigrant Experience, San Jose Mercury News,
Newsroom, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, Calif. 95190. To have a question
considered, you MUST include your name, city of residence and daytime phone
number.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              412 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 6, 2006 Friday

Event aims at Latino health;
BINATIONAL HEALTH WEEK FOCUSES ON IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Barbara Feder Ostrov, Mercury News

SECTION: B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 286 words


Binational Health Week kicks off Saturday with a host of health events ranging
from a diabetes conference to blood pressure screenings to cancer education
programs, all aimed at Latino immigrants in Santa Clara County.

It's the fifth year for this massive, cross-border health education campaign,
sponsored by the U.S. and Mexican governments, state and local agencies and
non-profit groups. Last year's Binational Health Week was observed in 28 states,
the District of Columbia, 28 Mexican states, and three Canadian provinces.

In Santa Clara County, about 9,400 people participated last year. The county is
home to an estimated 300,000 documented and undocumented Mexican immigrants, the
largest such population north of Los Angeles County, said San Jose-based Mexican
Consul General Bruno Figueroa.

``We're talking about a community that doesn't always understand English, about
people who do not know the complex health system,'' Figueroa said. ``So we focus
on how to get health messages directly to the community.''

In Santa Clara County, Latinos, including Mexican immigrants, are less likely
than other groups to have health insurance, less likely to receive routine
medical and dental care and are more likely to suffer from diabetes, research
has shown.

Many local events will take place primarily in Spanish at supermarkets and
churches, flea markets, universities and schools. Lectures and health screenings
will cover diabetes, nutrition and fitness, how to get access to health care and
low-cost health insurance, and services for the disabled.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTEDFor more information, visit www.sccgov.org or
www.binationalhealthweek.org.

Contact Barbara Feder Ostrov at bfeder@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5064.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              413 of 419 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                             October 6, 2006 Friday

Week of health events aimed at Latinos kicks off Saturday;
FREE HEALTH SCREENING AND MORE FOR BINATIONAL HEALTH WEEK

BYLINE: Barbara Feder Ostrov, Mercury News

LENGTH: 324 words


Binational Health Week kicks off Saturday with a host of health events ranging
from a diabetes conference to blood pressure screenings to cancer education
programs, all aimed at Latino immigrants in Santa Clara County.

It's the fifth year for this massive, cross-border health education campaign,
sponsored by the U.S. and Mexican governments, state and local agencies and
non-profit groups. Last year's Binational Health Week was observed in 28 states,
the District of Columbia, 28 Mexican states, and three Canadian provinces.

In Santa Clara County, about 9,400 people participated last year. The county is
home to an estimated 300,000 documented and undocumented Mexican immigrants, the
largest such population north of Los Angeles County, said San Jose-based Mexican
Consul General Bruno Figueroa.

``We're talking about a community that doesn't always understand English, about
people who do not know the complex health system,'' Figueroa said. ``So we focus
on how to get health messages directly to the community.''

There are about 415,000 Latinos in Santa Clara County, about a quarter of the
population, according to the U.S. Census. They are less likely than other groups
to have health insurance or receive routine medical and dental care and are more
likely to suffer from diabetes, research has shown. Latinos accounted for about
42 percent of the county's new AIDS cases last year. And in 2004, Latino girls
accounted for about about 80 percent of the county's teen births.

Many local events will take place primarily in Spanish at supermarkets and
churches, flea markets, universities and schools. Lectures and health screenings
will cover diabetes, nutrition and fitness, how to get access to health care and
low-cost health insurance, and services for the disabled.

IF YOU'RE INTERESTEDFor more information, visit www.sccgov.org or
www.binationalhealthweek.org.

Contact Barbara Feder Ostrov at bfeder@mercurynews.com or (408) 920-5064.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              414 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 19, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

California news in brief

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 510 words




FRESNO

Family gets $40,414 in cemetery lawsuit

A Hmong family was awarded more than $40,000 Tuesday in a suit charging a local
cemetery with burying their matriarch in a grave that already contained someone
else's bones.

The jury found Mountain View Cemetery at fault for negligence and breach of
contract for failing to bury Xia Yang ''in a dignified manner.'' But they also
found Xia Yang's family members partially responsible for the emotional distress
in the case. The jury awarded them $40,414, including the price the family paid
for the plot, instead of the $5 million they had been seeking.

Fresno County Superior Court Judge M. Bruce Smith also said there was
insufficient evidence of grave recycling, but the state agency responsible for
overseeing cemeteries has opened a separate investigation into Mountain View's
practices.

LOS ANGELES

Immigrants suing Homeland Security

Lawyers for undocumented immigrants who have been victims of violent crimes sued
the Department of Homeland Security on Tuesday for failing to issue protective
visas that Congress created five years ago.

The 2000 law approved visas for victims of violent crimes who cooperate with law
enforcement investigations or prosecutors. The visas would allow them to remain
in the United States and apply for permanent residency after three years. But
regulations detailing how to apply for the special U-visa were never published,
and none have been issued.

The suit was filed on behalf of nine immigrants from California, Texas and
Arizona, including several children. Attorneys are seeking class action status.

LONG BEACH

Telephone service curtailed in cities

An equipment problem knocked out long-distance telephone service and parts of
the 911 system for tens of thousands of residential and business customers in
several Southern California cities Tuesday, officials said.

The problem began around 2:20 a.m. at Verizon Communications' central office in
Long Beach, Verizon spokesman Bill Kula said.

Service in many areas, including all of Orange County, was restored by
midafternoon, and all service was expected to be restored by the end of the day,
Verizon said.

The problem interrupted long-distance service, but local calls were possible,
Kula said.

SAN DIEGO

Retired Navy officer has pleaded guilty

A former military intelligence officer pleaded guilty Tuesday to three counts of
illegally exporting military aircraft parts overseas, saying that he acted on
behalf of a convicted Pakistani arms dealer.

George Charles Budenz II, a retired Navy commander, said he shipped engine parts
for F-5 fighters, T-38 military trainers and Chinook helicopters to Malaysia and
Belgium without a U.S. State Department permit.

Investigators said the F-5 parts may have wound up in Iran, a country that
Budenz has visited.

Budenz, 57, had faced a 30-year prison term, but prosecutors said they will
recommend up to 6 1/2 years under a plea agreement when he is sentenced in
January.

From the Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              415 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 22, 2005 Saturday MO1 EDITION

Washington and National News in Brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 521 words




WASHINGTON, D.C.

Health panel warns firms on soaps, washes

Anti-bacterial soaps and washes aren't any better than plain, old soap and water
for fighting illness in the household, says a panel of federal health advisers.

They also worried the potential risks of the products, particularly the common
hand soaps and body washes that use synthetic chemicals, create an environmental
hazard and could contribute to the growth of bacteria that are resistant to
antibiotics.

The panel warned manufacturers they will have to prove their products' benefits
or they may be restricted from marketing them.

Industry representatives contend their products are safe and more effective than
conventional soaps, because they kill germs instead of just washing them off.
They said consumers should have a right to choose products.

Lax follow-up cited at Homeland agency

The Department of Homeland Security far too frequently fails to follow up on
leads that foreign visitors have overstayed their visas, the agency's inspector
general says in a new report. The result is an enforcement system that poses
little threat of repercussions for tourists, students and others who quietly
turn into illegal immigrants, the report says.

Of the 301,046 leads the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency received in
2004 on possible visa violators, the report says, only 4,164 were formally
pursued, resulting in just 671 apprehensions.

And while some of those cases are still pending, the inspector general, Richard
L. Skinner, predicted that a ''minuscule'' number of these individuals were ever
likely to face deportation.

KANSAS

High court rejects law over same-sex rape

The Supreme Court of Kansas struck down a state law Friday that penalized
same-sex statutory rapes by 18-year-olds much more harshly than heterosexual
cases, ruling that the law unconstitutionally discriminated against gays.

In a 6-0 opinion, the court said its decision was required by the U.S. Supreme
Court's 2003 ruling in Lawrence vs. Texas, a landmark victory for gay rights
that abolished all state laws criminalizing sodomy between consenting adults.

Kansas Attorney General Phill Kline, a Republican, said the state would probably
not appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, noting that, as a state legislator, he had
voted against the provision.

Matthew Limon was 18 and at a state residential school for mentally disabled
youth. That year, he was convicted of having oral sex with a fellow student who
was one month shy of his 15th birthday. He will be released after serving five
years of a 17-year-sentence, which would have been at most 15 months if he had
been convicted of a heterosexual act.

PENNSYLVANIA

Sex offender blocked from seeing his infant

Child-welfare authorities in Pottsville seized a newborn from a hospital Friday
and placed the baby in a foster home because his father is a convicted sex
offender.

A judge granted the mother, 31-year-old Melissa Wolfhawk, supervised visitation
rights but prohibited visits from the father. Another hearing is set for Oct.
31.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              416 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                      October 23, 2005 Sunday MO1 EDITION

A magnet for immigrants

BYLINE: By Aaron C. Davis; Mercury News

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1146 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS


A few weeks ago, Luis Diaz was wearing himself out for $5 an hour in the tobacco
fields of North Carolina. Then Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans.

Now Diaz, like many undocumented Latino immigrants, has landed a piece of the
largest demolition and reconstruction project in modern U.S. history at double
his usual salary, plus meals and lodging.

While critics complain that his job should go to local workers or those
displaced by the hurricane, Diaz is making plans to stay as long as the work
lasts or until La Migra -- U.S. immigration -- starts cracking down.

''Maybe they will come and make us leave,'' said Diaz, who came to the United
States from Veracruz, Mexico, about nine months ago. ''But if they do, well,
there's nothing you can do about it.''

Welcome to the Gulf Coast post-Katrina, the nation's latest immigration magnet.

Lured here by the promise of fat paychecks and an emergency federal decree
temporarily suspending immigration-enforcement sanctions, they sleep in tents,
crowded hotel rooms and sometimes even in parking lots. They're hauling trash
and cutting trees, fastening tarps to damaged roofs and tearing out damaged
drywall from thousands of soaked buildings.

Mass of immigrants

It started out small. But over time, Hurricane Katrina has unleashed a mass of
immigrants -- some legal, some not -- into New Orleans and other coastal
communities from Florida, Texas, California, North Carolina and other
immigrant-rich states.

Many are natives of Mexico or Central America, but some come from as far away as
Brazil. Hundreds of Latino immigrants could be found last week crammed into the
Best Western in downtown New Orleans, where LVI Services, an environmental
remediation company based in New York, was packing them in three and four to a
room.

Hundreds more LVI workers were staying at a Shoney's Inn in nearby Metairie,
said company representatives in New Orleans, who didn't want to be identified
for fear of losing their jobs for talking to reporters. Calls placed to LVI
weren't returned.

Already, critics are complaining that they're losing work to cheaper, imported
labor, even as immigrant advocates say the foreign workers themselves are being
exploited.

At a recent seminar about the rebuilding efforts, New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin
asked the crowd: ''How do I ensure that New Orleans is not overrun by Mexican
workers?''

In one public case last week, 75 union electricians held a news conference to
show off their termination letters from a job site at the Louisiana National
Guard's Naval Air Station in Belle Chasse, south of downtown New Orleans. They
said a contractor had sent 120 immigrant workers from Houston to replace them. A
spokesman for the Louisiana National Guard, Neal Martin, said he hadn't heard of
any such incident.

Gary Warren, the political director for the Louisiana Regional Carpenters
Council, said his group had begun receiving regular complaints from union
members who have been laid off by contractors and replaced with immigrant
workers.

''Nobody wants me to say this because it's not politically correct, but they are
calling them 'Texans.' What they are really using is a lot of illegal labor,''
Warren said. ''It's an issue of people who lost everything being laid off in
favor of people from out of state.''

Life isn't always rosy for the immigrants, either. Twice in recent weeks, local
police, backed by federal officers, have rounded up Latino-looking men at Red
Cross shelters in Mississippi and questioned if they were hurricane victims or
just helping themselves to free shelter and food.

Bill Chandler, the president of the Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, said
many Latino workers, besides being threatened with deportation, had become
hurricane victims of another sort: left helpless after the allure of good wages
and shelter vanished in a haze of broken promises from unscrupulous contractors.

He said his group recently found 20 to 30 workers, employed by a cleaning crew,
sleeping on the floor in trailers with no food or electricity.

''The biggest thing now seems to be the mushrooming groups of workers here who
are cleaning up . . . and are being treated horribly,'' he said.

Little to fear

Employers have little to fear in hiring illegal workers. Even before Katrina
hit, work-site immigration enforcement was lagging.

A report from the U.S. Government Accountability Office in August found that the
number of fines issued to employers for knowingly hiring illegal workers has
plummeted, from 417 in 1999 to just three last year. Arrests of unauthorized
workers dropped 84 percent from 1999 to 2003, the report found.

Katrina made the threat of employer sanctions even more remote.

On Sept. 6, the Department of Homeland Security announced that it would
''refrain from initiating employer-sanction enforcement action for the next 45
days for civil violations . . . with regards to individuals who are currently
unable to provide identity and eligibility documents.'' The department will
review the policy and make further recommendations at the end of that period.

The competition for immigrant workers can be fierce, even if they end up being
abandoned later.

Marco Topete of Texas-based Tops Contractor Services had plans two weeks ago to
give drywall repair work in New Orleans to seven migrants, sent from Houston
with $130 for gas and food.

They had planned to meet at a gas station in the Metairie area, but Topete lost
contact with them for about 15 minutes. When he caught up with them, it was too
late: Contractors who were installing blue tarps on roofs for the Army Corps of
Engineers had hired them on the spot, he said.

Topete said he confronted the contractor for ''stealing'' his workers; he was
stunned by the man's response. The contractor produced $130 from a wad of bills
in his pocket and gave it to Topete. He then offered to give Topete $100 for
every additional migrant worker he could produce.

'' 'Welcome to the new slave trade,' '' the contractor said, Topete recalled.
''I thought it was really mean.''

In the end, the workers called Topete and said they were going to Mississippi
because conditions where they were staying were unsafe, unclean and hot.

Regardless of the often primitive conditions they endure and the harsh work they
sometimes perform, immigrants will continue to be drawn to New Orleans, said
immigration expert Gregory Rodriguez, a senior fellow at the non-partisan New
America Foundation, a public-policy center in Washington.

Throughout U.S. history, immigrants from Ireland, Italy, China, Mexico and
elsewhere have been used to complete huge infrastructure projects, from the
transcontinental railroad to the New York subway system.

''In a weird way, this tragedy will make it a magnet for opportunity seekers,''
Rodriguez said. ''It's the irony of tragedies.''

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              417 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 26, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Washington and national news in brief

SECTION: A; BRIEF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 537 words




WASHINGTON, D.C.

GOP hashes out immigration stance

In an indication that the Republican Party is moving to address its deep
divisions over immigration, GOP senators behind two competing bills announced
Tuesday that they would work together to draft legislation that emphasizes
border security, but also tackles the difficult issue of illegal immigrants.

Sens. John McCain of Arizona and John Cornyn of Texas stood alongside Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee to outline a staggered approach to
reform, starting early next year. It will focus first on enforcement before
addressing a guest-worker program, they said.

The announcement came just hours after Sen. Chuck Hagel, R-Neb., who is
considering a presidential run in 2008, unveiled his own immigration bill -- a
week after President Bush offered more detail on his vision for immigration
reform. House Republican leaders have said their approach to immigration will
start with border security.

Patriot Act could boost death penalties

The House bill that would reauthorize the USA Patriot Act anti-terrorism law
includes several little-noticed provisions that would dramatically transform the
federal death-penalty system, allowing smaller juries to decide on executions
and giving prosecutors the ability to try again if a jury deadlocks on
sentencing.

The bill also triples the number of terrorism-related crimes eligible for the
death penalty, adding, among others, the material-support law that has been the
core of the government's legal strategy against terrorism.

If approved, the provisions could have a significant impact on future Justice
Department terrorism prosecutions.

Electronic passports get security features

The State Department said Tuesday that it is adding two security features to the
new electronic passports that it will start issuing in December.

A tiny antenna embedded in the passport cover will allow remote reading devices
to capture the data on the chip. Privacy advocates said anyone with a portable
reader could remotely read, or ''skim,'' a passport holder's personal
information. The new passports' front covers and spines will include an
anti-skimming material that blocks the radio waves that could pick up the data.

They also will use Basic Access Control technology, which utilizes a kind of
personal identification number that must be touched physically to unlock the
data on the chip.

In other news



 Mayor C. Ray Nagin conceded Tuesday that New Orleans will shrink to nearly half
its pre-hurricane population and will have to make do with one-third of its
previous budget. Also, the death toll attributed to Hurricane Katrina in
Louisiana has grown to 1,053.



 The government will back down from a plan to require long-term studies of new
psychiatric drugs before allowing them on the market, regulators said Tuesday.



 For the second time in less than a week, President Bush showed off his
fundraising prowess, attending a million-dollar Republican Party fundraiser
Tuesday night and rallying big donors with a forceful, campaign-style speech
about his second-term agenda that barely hinted at the troubles he faces.

From Mercury News wire services

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              418 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     October 26, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

GOVERNOR WOOS LATINO VOTERS

BYLINE: By Aaron C. Davis and Laura Kurtzman; Mercury News Sacramento Bureau

SECTION: B; BRIEF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 612 words


Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Tuesday tried reaching out to Latino voters who
helped propel him to the governorship two years ago but turned away from him
after he shifted to the right and praised vigilantes trying to stop migrants at
the border.

Schwarzenegger began the meeting where he'd left off in a televised debate
Monday night, touting his Nov. 8 slate of ballot initiatives as the remedy for a
''broken system'' of governing in Sacramento.

But a barrage of questions from the Spanish-language audience sent the governor
into territory he'd worked to avoid since the campaign began: immigrant driver's
licenses, the state's relationship with Mexico, his record of judicial
appointments and social services for immigrants.

Border sign

The day's event in Sacramento also was complicated for Schwarzenegger when a
Republican group that opposes giving driver's licenses to illegal immigrants
announced it was selling bumper stickers and lawn signs that co-opted the
governor's campaign slogan ''Join Arnold.'' The new slogan reads: ''Join Arnold.
Close the Border.''

Schwarzenegger had made the remark in April in response to a question on
immigration. He apologized the next day saying he meant to say ''secure'' the
border, not close it. A Schwarzenegger spokesman Tuesday called the new campaign
''stupid.''

''That's not the governor's position,'' said Todd Harris. ''The governor's been
very clear about that.''

Two of the first four questions from the audience of Univision's Voz y Voto were
on immigration. ''We can debate this issue into eternity,'' Schwarzenegger said.
''The bottom line is that we have to find a way to do it legally.''

Schwarzenegger repeatedly punted the immigration problem to federal officials,
saying Washington's failure to standardize national ID requirements since the
attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, had prevented California from solving the
driver's-license issue for immigrants. Schwarzenegger also has repeatedly vetoed
legislation that would create a new class of driver's licenses for undocumented
immigrants.

''For too long the federal government has looked the other way,'' he said.

When Voz y Voto, the Spanish-language public-affairs program, appears statewide
Saturday at 10 a.m., the governor's answers will be dubbed into Spanish.

Steve Maviglio, a spokesman for the unions that are campaigning against the
governor's ballot initiatives, said the conflicting messages Tuesday by
Schwarzenegger and the Republican group illustrate why he has such a troubled
relationship with the Latino community.

''It's symbolic of his schizophrenia,'' Maviglio said. ''He's wooing the Latino
vote and can't understand why he can't get it.''

Schwarzenegger received 31 percent of the Latino vote during the 2003 recall.
But in recent months, after he clashed with teachers and other public employee
unions and after his remarks about vigilantes on the border, his approval among
Latinos has fallen to 18 percent, according to the latest Public Policy
Institute poll.

Debate questions

Critics also questioned why they were not asked to debate the governor on
Univision. The station has aired a series of shows on the special election
issues, the company said. Univision's chairman and CEO A. Jerrold Perenchio also
has been one of the governor's biggest financial donors.

The new bumper stickers and lawn signs were made by the California Republican
Assembly, a conservative group headed by Mike Spence.

He said the signs and bumper stickers went over well at the recent Republican
Party convention in Anaheim. ''One of the Minutemen took them to the border.''

Contact Aaron C. Davis at acdavis@mercurynews.com

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              419 of 419 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                     November 2, 2005 Wednesday MO1 EDITION

Study: Early schooling decreases dropout rate

BYLINE: By Mitchell Landsberg; Los Angeles Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 247 words


A study released Tuesday confirms what many teachers have long suspected: The
performance of immigrant children in U.S. schools may reflect the education they
received -- or did not receive -- in their home countries.

Foreign-born children, especially those from Mexico, are far more likely to drop
out of high school if they had a spotty educational record before coming to the
United States, according to the study by the Pew Hispanic Center. But those who
start U.S. schools by the second grade are scarcely more likely than U.S.-born
children to drop out, the findings show.

The report helps illuminate the challenges facing U.S. educators, particularly
in states such as California, as they struggle to cope with the largest wave of
immigration in the nation's history.

The Pew study, which was based on U.S. census data, examined 15- to 17-year-olds
who had come to the United States from more than 40 countries. Those from Mexico
were the most likely of any nationality to have left school, or never to have
enrolled in a U.S. school. Overall, nearly 25 percent of Mexican teens were
dropouts.

But for those Mexican students who immigrated no later than the second grade,
the dropout rate was 8 percent.

Another study by Pew raises questions on whether Latino students have access to
the same quality of education as their peers.

The second study says Latinos, on average, attend larger, more crowded high
schools than non-Latino whites or African-Americans.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
