
                               1 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 15, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE AGAIN REJECTS 187 OK'D IN '94: MEASURE BARRING BENEFITS TO ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS CALLED UNCONSTITUTIONAL.

BYLINE: MARY ANNE OSTROM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A federal court judge in Los Angeles on Friday declared unconstitutional the
core of Proposition 187, the controversial 1994 voter-approved measure that
banned illegal immigrants from receiving public benefits but has never been
implemented.

The ruling by U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer marks the second time she has
struck down the measure. In a 32-page memorandum issued Friday, she argued this
time that the passage of federal welfare reform in 1996 made California
"powerless to enact its own legislative scheme to regulate immigration."

Gov. Pete Wilson, who closely linked his re-election campaign to passage of the
measure, lashed out at the judge in a news conference Friday and promised to
appeal her decision.

Judge likened to '62 Mets
Calling her ruling "as flawed and error-prone as the 1962 Mets," he said "we are
eager to see it reviewed by a higher court with a better understanding of the
law."

Wilson argued it is unfair for taxpayers "to be compelled to spend over $3
billion a year providing service to illegal immigrants . . . and unfair to legal
residents in California, who in many cases have been denied services or the
level of service that they would have otherwise enjoyed."

During an emotional and divisive 1994 campaign, Wilson argued that Proposition
187 was necessary because the federal government had failed to act to stem
illegal immigration.

Friday's ruling came in response to a request by Wilson for the judge to review
her 1995 decision striking down the proposition in light of the 1996 passage of
federal welfare reform.

Ironically, the judge based much of Friday's ruling on the 1996 Personal
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, which overhauled welfare
benefits and denied them to illegal immigrants.

"When President Clinton signed the PRA, he effectively ended any further debate
about what the states could do in this field," Pfaelzer wrote.

The plaintiffs in the case hailed Pfaelzer's decision as the "tombstone" for the
controversial ballot measure.

"California had as much business passing Proposition 187 as it would sending the
state militia to remove Saddam Hussein," said American Civil Liberties Union
legal director Mark Rosenbaum.

Proposition opponents argued that allowing states to write their own immigration
rules was tantamount to allowing "one nation with 50 separate immigration
policies."

Case bound for high court
Wilson said that after the judge hears final motions later this month, he would
expect the state to appeal the case to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

But, he acknowledged, there would probably be no resolution by the time he
leaves office in January 1999. Ultimately, the case is likely to go to the U.S.
Supreme Court, state officials predicted.

The state, however, is relying on a recent California Supreme Court ruling to
deny prenatal care to illegal immigrants beginning in December. Prenatal care is
only the first of some 200 benefit programs the Wilson administration says it
will deny to illegal immigrants as it implements welfare reform.

State lawyers argue federal welfare reform rules allow them that flexibility,
though a court challenge is pending.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 19, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE REJECTS MOST OF PROP. 187 RULING ON IMMIGRANTS HEADED FOR APPEAL

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1041 words


Three and a half years after California voters passed an explosive initiative
aimed at denying schooling and most other public benefits to illegal immigrants,
a federal judge has officially struck down most of it as unconstitutional.

Opponents of Proposition 187 praised Tuesday's final ruling by District Judge
Mariana Pfaelzer as a victory for the U.S. constitutional system. Proponents
called for her removal from the bench -- but said they were happy she was
finally letting go of the case.

"At least now it's out of her court," said state Sen. Richard Mountjoy,
R-Arcadia, one of the measure's authors. "We knew how she felt about 187 three
years ago. I think the woman ought to be impeached."

Pfaelzer's defenders, however, contend she did her best to scrutinize a complex
and constitutionally suspect measure -- and that the state's shifting legal
strategies contributed to the delay.

"We have a constitutional system and a judicial system" charged with reviewing
voter-approved measures, said Tomas Saenz, counsel for the Mexican American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund. "The abiding will of the people is reflected
in our Constitution."

Proposition 187's most controversial provision would have barred undocumented
immigrant children from public schools. Although the provision conflicts with a
1982 Supreme Court ruling in a Texas case, the Wilson administration still wants
to use 187 to get the high court to reconsider.

State Attorney General Dan Lungren, whose office is defending the initiative,
late Wednesday issued a statement saying he would promptly appeal Pfaelzer's
ruling.

"Consider that a child born Nov. 8, 1994 (the day 187 passed), is now able to
walk, talk, feed and dress himself/herself, has been potty-trained and is
probably getting ready to enter preschool," Lungren said in a statement.
"Proposition 187, however, because of the results of judicial non-action, has
been prevented from taking its first steps."

The measure, most of which has never been implemented, was designed to deny
undocumented immigrants education, welfare and non-emergency health care. School
administrators and other public employees would have been required toreport
"suspected" undocumented immigrants to authorities -- a provision that opponents
excoriated as "Big Brother."

After the initiative passed with 59 percent of the vote, several lawsuits were
filed against the state. The suits were soon consolidated into one federal
action and assigned to Pfaelzer, who has issued a series of rulings indicating
she had grave concerns about the initiative's constitutionality.

In November, Pfaelzer concluded that 187 was unconstitutional because it tried
to regulate immigration -- which she ruled was the domain of the federal
government.

"The states have no power to legislate in this area," the judge reiterated in a
written ruling made public Wednesday.

The latest provisions struck down by Pfaelzer involved denial of benefits to
illegal immigrants in the state's college and university systems. She also
struck down elements involving denial of access to health care and social
services.

ACLU pleased

The American Civil Liberties Union, one of several groups that had legally
challenged the initiative, called the decision "an overwhelming victory."

"This is literally the last nail in the coffin," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal
director of the ACLU of Southern California. The ruling, he said, means
"teachers and doctors are not to become substitutes for immigration officers."

But most 187 proponents contended that opponents had simply won Round 1.

"Her delay in issuing this judgment is unprecedented, and her analysis of the
measure is fundamentally flawed," Gov. Pete Wilson, who rode the popularity of
the initiative to re-election in 1994, said in a statement.

Wilson said the action clears the way for the state to appeal her decision to
the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco "so that the will of the
people can be upheld."

But other 187 supporters didn't seem as interested in the protracted court
battle as in pursuing other legislative attacks on illegal border crossers. They
argued that proponents had already "won" when the illegal immigration issue
captured U.S. lawmakers' attention after the measure passed so overwhelmingly.

"187 did its job," said Rick Oltman of San Rafael, a leading proponent of the
measure. "We wanted to show broad political support for stopping taxpayers'
dollars from flowing to illegal aliens. We wanted to motivate Congress to do
something. And it did."

Congress responds

In 1996, Congress passed a sweeping immigration law that, among other things,
called for 1,000 new Border Patrol agents every year for the next five years,
created pilot programs so that employers can check the eligibility status of job
applicants and toughened penalties for smuggling and document counterfeiting.

Oltman now works for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national
group that works to reduce both illegal and legal immigration. He said he hopes
187 supporters will turn their attention to reducing legal immigration levels
and lobbying for a bill that would deny U.S. citizenship to the children of
illegal immigrants.

But other key proponents, including Wilson and Mountjoy, said they didn't intend
to allow 187 to die.

"Yes, there have been federal changes in immigration law, but I still believe
187 needs to be the law of the land," Mountjoy said. "You should not reward
people who do illegal activity. When you do that, you do two things: You cheat
someone else out of a place in the immigration line, and you take money from the
taxpayers."

Pfaelzer had initially ruled in 1995 that most of the initiative was
unconstitutional. The only part upheld was a minor provision for increasing the
state penalties for the manufacture, distribution, sale or use of false
immigration documents.

A later ruling was partially based on the 1996 federal welfare reform act, which
overhauled welfare benefits and denied them to illegal immigrants and many legal
immigrants.

When President Clinton signed the act, "he effectively ended any furtherdebate
about what the states could do in this field," Pfaelzer wrote then.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: MAIN PROVISIONS OF PROP. 187
Here are the main provisions of Proposition 187, passed by California voters in
November 1994 with 59 percent of the vote. Only the last provision has taken
effect.
*
Denies public schooling, social services and health care to illegal immigrants
-- except for emergency care required by federal law.
* Requires police, schools and hospitals to report suspected illegal immigrants.

* Makes it a felony to make or use false citizenship documents.
Source: California Secretary of State's OfficeMercury News wire services
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lungren Attorney general criticizes delays in court action.
[980319 FR 1A 3]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                AUGUST 27, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

158 ARRESTED IN IMMIGRATION RAIDS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 85 words


A three-week-long sweep by immigration agents in the Bay Area ended with the
arrests of 158 people, some of them working illegally at car washes, the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service said Tuesday.

Agents began their raids Aug. 4, hitting 14 businesses from San Rafael to San
Francisco to Fremont, where 20 undocumented workers were picked up at two car
washes.

The countries of origin of those arrested were Mexico, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Italy, Ireland, Honduras, Korea and Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 11, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MALAYSIA CASTING OUT INDONESIAN REFUGEES ASYLUM SEEKERS FLEE TO EMBASSY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia


Driven to desperation by a mass-deportation campaign, Indonesian immigrants
scaled the walls of the U.S. Embassy on Friday to seek political asylum.

The eight illegal immigrants who jumped over the embassy's walls will remain
until American officials have determined their status, U.S. official James
Warren said. The men came from Aceh, an independence-seeking region of
Indonesia.

Warren said 29 other Acehnese jumped over walls around the Swiss, French and
Brunei embassies, but police were allowed to enter those embassies to arrest
them.

"The police have come -- we just haven't let them come in and take them away,"
Warren said.

More than 40 red-helmeted police officers surrounded the U.S. Embassy. Four red
police trucks normally used for prisoners were parked next to the compound.

Malaysia is trying to deport 200,000 illegal immigrants from Indonesia by Aug.
15 in a bid to protect jobs and its own weak economy. Before Southeast Asia's
economic crisis, hundreds of thousands of foreign workers had been welcomed
here.

Of its 8 million-member labor force, 3 million are migrant workers, and half of
those are Indonesian.

Human rights officials fear that some of the thousands of Indonesians already
ousted are political refugees who face persecution or death if sent home.

Elizabeth Wong, coordinator for the Malaysian human rights group SUARAM,
condemned the embassies that turned the Acehnese over to the police.

"If this had happened in their own countries there would be a huge outcry by
their citizens," she said. "They could have just picked up the phone and called
(U.N. officials)."

But Swiss Foreign Ministry official Franz Egle said the U.N. human rights agency
refused to get involved. He said the Acehnese attacked two security guards and
"attempted to gain entry to the embassy building by violent means."

French Embassy officials declined to comment Friday. Brunei officials denied
that immigrants had entered their compound.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A police officer stands guard outside the U.S. Embassy in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia, on Friday. Eight immigrants from Indonesia climbed over its gates,
seeking political asylum. Many others fled to other embassies but later were
arrested.
[980411 FR 13A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 6, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE FARMERS FEAR SHORTAGE OF WORKERS THE POSSIBLE EFFECT OF THE U.S. CRACKDOWN
ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IS RATTLING GROWERS

BYLINE: ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1367 words


To many California farmers, foreign labor has always been like water -- a
natural resource of sorts -- and in the past enough immigrant workers seemed to
appear each harvest.

But now, as the federal government tightens its grip on illegal immigration
through more manpower and new technology at the U.S.-Mexico border, growers fear
the low-cost labor they have depended on for decades will disappear, threatening
the stability of California's $25 billion agriculture industry.

The U.S. Border Patrol estimates that it has cut illegal crossings by half since
the early 1990s.

Last fall, growers related anecdotal evidence of a labor strain: Grape farmers
on the coast and olive farmers in the San Joaquin Valley could not find enough
workers. In Orange County, one farmer watched acres of his bean and cabbage crop
rot last year after immigration officials deported all but three of the owner's
160 field workers.

Industry analysts say there is no proof that a national shortage of farm
laborers exists. But they predict future shortages unless domestic workers,
innovative farming techniques or other options emerge to fill the void. Already
in Washington, D.C., farm owners are pushing for new welfare-to-work and
foreign-guest-worker programs to ease the strain.

In Santa Clara County, concerned farmers are phoning in about the looming
shortage of workers for their harvest, said Nancy Richardson, executive director
of the county's Farm Bureau. Many wonder if the decline will be temporary or
will stabilize. Or will they be lucky again this year with longer harvesting
windows that would allow them to make do with fewer workers? Or will their farms
look like the one in Orange County with acres of rotten crops?

"Right now," said Don Laub, who farms a thousand acres of grape fields in
Fresno, "the biggest conversation out here is the unknown."

Immigrant count

About 40 percent of all farmworkers in the United States -- or 600,000 people --
are in the country illegally, according to a General Accounting Office report
released earlier this year. In California, farm owners say, that number is
closer to 70 percent.

The federal government study concluded that while there is not a nationwide
shortage of farm laborers, there could be spot shortages in some parts of the
country. Farmers contend that California -- long a top immigration magnet -- is
one of those places.

For the most part, both growers and farmworker unions agree that ending the
farmers' self-admitted reliance on illegal labor would be a good thing.

"It's not so much that we're hiring illegals on purpose," said Roy Gabriel of
the California Farm Bureau Federation. "Some 50 to 70 percent of the labor force
is carrying fraudulent documents."

But the two groups are divided on which programs -- if any -- are needed.

Farmers are lobbying for a two-tiered safety net: new welfare-to-work and
foreign-guest-worker programs. The first is generally non-controversial; the
second is hotly debated.

"We're not going to wait for the fire," Gabriel said, "to take out an insurance
policy."

"It will be a disaster," said Manuel Cunha Jr., president of the Nisei Farmers
League in Fresno. "We will have rotting crops and unreal prices."

But others, including the United Farm Workers of America, say the dire
predictions are a ploy to keep farm labor cheap.

"It's all a scam," said Marc Grossman, a UFW spokesman. "Go to the major
(agricultural) counties. Far from suffering labor shortages, farmers have huge
surpluses and these surpluses will more than make up for any decrease in
undocumented workers."

Phil Martin, a professor at the University of California-Davis, said the truth
is somewhere in the middle. Martin, an authority on agricultural economics, says
farmers may suffer initially from decreased illegal immigration but that
automated farming equipment would ease the strain.

"The industry," he said, "will survive."

Martin, who recently testified before U.S. House and Senate subcommittees about
the future supply of farm labor, says he knows of only half a dozen farmers who
use mechanical harvesters and pruners. The new machines initially are more
expensive than manual labor, especially for farmers with fewer crops.

Meanwhile, big business and farmworker unions -- who for decades have been
battling over the use of illegal immigrant laborers -- are poised for showdowns
from county governments to Capitol Hill.

In March, after decades of unsuccessful lobbying, farm owners cleared a major
hurdle. A federal program that would allow them to cheaply -- and legally --
import a limited number of foreign workers cleared the House subcommittee on
immigration. That's largely because a staunch opponent of the
foreign-guest-worker program, Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, switched sides.

Smith, who two years ago led the GOP-controlled Congress in killing a similar
bill, is now chaperoning a new bill through the House to create the two-year
guest-worker pilot program -- allowing growers to bring in up to 20,000 workers.
The bill is scheduled for a full House vote this session, and a companion bill
is making its way through the Senate.

Congressional aides say Smith, long an advocate of reducing legal immigration,
agreed to back the plan, provided agribusiness supporters sign off on another
measure that would reduce the number of legal immigrants allowed into the
country each year. Smith has said that he supports the program because it is
temporary, unlike the previous measure.

Critics of the guest-worker program say it is a reincarnation of the bracero
program, the 1942 wartime measure that eventually brought nearly 5 million
Mexican men to the United States to harvest crops. Congress terminated that
program after 22 years amid allegations that it amounted to indentured
servitude.

Two-tiered labor system

Others say that the new program would create a two-tiered labor system,
withimmigrants earning less than domestic workers.

"They say under a new program we'll have protections and guarantees. Well, we
had them with the bracero program and they were just ignored," said UFW's
Grossman.

The U.S. Labor Department already has a special program for industries that
can't fill jobs with domestic workers. But California growers say that the H2A
visa program has not been used here because advertising requirements are too
time-consuming, particularly during peak harvest periods.

Last year, about 15,000 workers, mostly ranch hands in the Southwest, arrived in
the United States under the H2A program.

When the program started in the 1980s, many politicians believed that it would
stop growers from relying on illegal immigrants. But a congressional commission
in 1992 concluded that the law had unintentionally created a huge black market
for phony immigration papers and had encouraged illegal immigration.

Theoretically, with an estimated 6.5 million people unemployed at any given time
in the United States, there should be plenty of domestic workers who could fill
the jobs now held by undocumented farmhands. The unemployment rate in some rural
California farm counties is double the national unemployment rate of 4.3 to 4.7
percent.

Farmers and county welfare officials are setting up welfare-to-work programs
aimed at easing the farm labor strain. Earlier this year, a pilot program began
in Kern County with 29 workers, and a second program will start this week in
Fresno County with 1,500 workers.

Most welfare recipients are women with children and the harsh manual labor and
grueling hours would be difficult for them to handle, UC-Davis' Martin said. And
some farmworkers contend that the program was set up to fail, which would give
Congress more reason to approve the guest-worker program.

With the INS tightening its grip on the border, the fate of foreign labor in the
Golden State now appears to be more precarious than ever. Initiatives and laws
perceived as anti-immigrant are prompting many to leave.

And California's Latino immigrants are fueling a new migration pattern, heading
to small towns in the nation's heartland for higher-paying, year-round jobs in
the meatpacking industry and at poultry plants.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 14A

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 18, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIVE PLEAD GUILTY OVER IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 80 words


In two actions attacking the flow of illegal immigrants into West Texas from
Mexico, the Immigration and Naturalization Service on Tuesday said five members
of a ring had pleaded guilty to smuggling charges and 13 members of another ring
had been indicted by a grand jury in El Paso. The officials described the groups
as major players among criminal organizations that have expanded since the
United States increased its effort to control smuggling along the Mexican
border.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JULY 23, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIALS PROBE DEAF-PEDDLERS SCAM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 110 words


New York immigration officials investigating the case of deaf Mexicans forced to
work as peddlers said Tuesday that they are trying to determine whether similar
operations exist in other parts of the country. The probe includes locations in
Los Angeles, the Midwest and the South, said Immigration and Naturalization
Service official Lynn Durko.

Fifty-seven deaf illegal immigrants were found early Saturday crammed into two
apartments in Queens. Seven people are charged with recruiting them,
transporting them from Mexico to New York, putting them to work selling key
chains for $1 on the subway and punishing them if they didn't earn enough.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 29, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE PEOPLE DEPORTED THAN EVER

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 295 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


So far this fiscal year, the United States has deported a record number of
illegal immigrants -- about half of whom had criminal records, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service said Thursday.

Using a stepped-up hearing process and expedited procedures under a new
immigration law, the INS formally removed 75,743 illegal immigrants through June
of fiscal 1997, which ends Sept. 30. Three-quarters of those formally deported
came from Mexico.

Deportations up 50%

Overall, deportations from April through June were up nearly 50 percent over
last year.

"Putting this in perspective, we removed more criminal and other illegal aliens
in April, May and June than were removed in all of 1990," said INS General
Counsel David Martin, issuing a quarterly update on deportations.

The INS set a goal of 93,000 deportations for fiscal 1997 but expects to exceed
that level. The figures represent illegal immigrants who have gone through the
formal deportation, or removal, process; they do not include more than 1 million
people turned back at U.S. borders.

60,000 removed in '97

In addition, tens of thousands are apprehended by immigration officials inside
the country each year but leave without going through the formal deportation
process. The INS has removed nearly 60,000 illegal immigrants without formal
proceedings during fiscal 1997.

The INS deported 13,121 immigrants with criminal records from April through June
and more than 36,000 during the year to date.

The number of illegal immigrants deported for other reasons rose to nearly
40,000 for the year. About 10,000 of those deportations stemmed from a new
immigration law that allows quick deportation in the absence of a credible
asylum case or a claim to permanent resident status.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 24, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW LAW CREATES TOUGH CHOICES TIME RUNS OUT FOR IMMIGRANTS HERE ILLEGALLY

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA AND MARINA HINESTROSA, Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1254 words


Mountain View resident Margarita Escobar is facing a terrible choice:

Obey the law and leave her family or risk being barred from becoming a legal
U.S. resident for as long as a decade.

Under new rules that take effect Saturday, illegal immigrants who don't leave
the country will be prohibited from returning for three years. For Escobar and
roughly a million other illegal immigrants who have applied to become legal
residents, the rules mean having to decide whether to leave the country
immediately and wait indefinitely in their homeland for their legal residency to
be approved.

Their other option is to stay in the country and risk being severely penalized
down the road.

The changes will particularly affect hundreds of thousands of California
families that are divided by immigration status. The "split families" are a
legacy of years of flawed, ignored and convoluted immigration policies.

Escobar's case is typical. Her husband had taken advantage of a 1986 law that
gave amnesty to 3 million illegal immigrants -- but not family members. Her
daughter, born in this country, is a U.S. citizen. Escobar applied three years
ago to become a legal resident.

"I'm not sure if I should go or I should stay. If I stay, I will be hurt. If I
go, I will be hurt, too," said Escobar, a waitress by day and a maid by night.
"Which is worse?"

The new rules are a key part of a sweeping 1996 immigration law that gave U.S.
immigration officials unprecedented resources to combat illegal immigration.
Next year, the law will impose even stiffer penalties. An illegal immigrant who
has been in the United States one year on April 1, 1998, will be barred from
legal U.S. entry for 10 years.

Until now, an illegal immigrant who was arrested and deported could enter
legally at any later date.

Coincidentally, the new rules take effect three days before the expiration of a
3-year-old provision known as 245-I. The provision permitted illegal immigrants
who paid a $1,000 fine to remain in the country while they were waiting for
legal residency instead of going to a consulate in their native land.

The main aim of 245-I was to avoid imposing a hardship on foreigners who had
jobs and families in the United States and were going to become legal eventually
anyway.

Immigrant rights advocates argue that allowing 245-I to expire is draconian
because it threatens people who had been told by the government that it was
perfectly OK to stay in the country while their papers were processed.

High-tech lobbyists are also worried.

"The threat of facing a three- or 10-year (penalty) is of concern to us because
a high-tech worker may fall out of status due to forces beyond our control,"
said Brian Raymond of the American Electronics Association.

'People who fill critical needs'

Raymond said companies also are concerned that the expiration of 245-I would
force employees to leave the country to get visas that they could previously
obtain in the United States.

"These are people who fill critical needs in our industry," said Raymond, who
added that he does not know how many high-tech workers might be hit by the new
rules.

Mark Silverman, an attorney at the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in
SanFrancisco, estimates that the families of 200,000 California immigrants whose
applications for legal residency have not been processed will be affected.

The U.S. government estimates there are roughly 5 million illegal immigrants in
the United States -- 2 million in California alone.

"I would be concerned if I were illegal in this country. I would want to leave
before (the penalties were applied) -- that is, if I had any interest in living
in the United States legally in the future," INS spokeswoman Elaine Komis said.

The Clinton administration and the U.S. Senate support extending 245-I, but many
immigration analysts believe the chances are slim to none that the House of
Representatives will agree to an extension.

Supporters say the new rules will help curb illegal immigration by making it
more difficult for an illegal immigrant to get a visa after entering illegally.
They argue that illegal immigrants unfairly get visas faster than those who wait
in their countries to enter legally. They also say that those illegal immigrants
who get legal residency while living in the United States are not subject to the
stringent criminal background checks conducted at U.S. consulates outside the
country.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who wrote the new legislation, has sent several
letters to fellow congressmen indicating he will not consider any 245-I
extension.

"The current policy is a tremendous incentive for people to jump the line and
come here," said his spokesman, Allen Kay. "That is an unnecessary hardship for
people who follow the rules."

Illegal immigrants complain that the government has changed the rules midstream.
Nevertheless, some say they will leave the country rather than risk the
penalties.

San Jose resident Luis Garcia, 57, became a legal resident through the amnesty
law, and 15 months ago he took a test to become a citizen. But he is still
waiting for the paperwork to be finalized.

He has petitioned the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to grant legal
residency to his wife. But if an extension of 245-I is not granted, she and
their two children will return to Mexico, he said.

Garcia, a furniture worker, said he would stay in San Jose to earn money to
support his family.

A Milpitas engineer, a legal resident from the People's Republic of China, said
his wife will return to her native Taiwan if no extension is granted.

The Stanford University graduate, who requested anonymity, said he felt deceived
because he thought his wife would be able to stay. He said that because of the
245-I extension, he married last year, established a company and bought a home
and a car.

"It's inhuman," he said. "It would take a year and a half for me to become a
citizen, so it means she has to leave the country for two and a half years. The
result? We can't have children now. We can't be together."

Others say the new rules will have other effects.

"Some people are talking about pulling their children out of school because they
are afraid to be caught," said Mario Camacho, who volunteers at a Mountain View
immigrant advocate agency, St. Joseph Work Center.

Union City resident Leticia Acevedo said her 11-year-old son spends long periods
crying, thinking about returning to Mexico and forgetting the English he studied
so hard. Acevedo said she and her two children will return to Mexico if she is
not approved for citizenship at a scheduled interview this week.

'I was so close'

"I don't know what to think. I was so close to fixing my situation," she said.
"What happens if I go back to Mexico, go to the consulate and they say to me,
'There's no visa for you.' "

Other illegal immigrants are only vaguely aware of changes to the law. And some
who know what is coming say they do not care because they have so few options.

Manuel Garcia, a Menlo Park restaurant worker, said he doesn't think new laws
will change the demand for cheap, illegal labor.

"I'll keep working until they catch me. I need the money, and that's the bottom
line," said Garcia, who has been in the United States illegally forfive years.

A Peninsula restaurant owner who declined to be identified said: "These new laws
won't have any effect on our supply of workers. When they deport a few, there
are always more who take their places."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: TERMS OF LAW
Until now, an illegal immigrant who was deported could apply to legally re-enter
the United States immediately. But under the terms of a sweeping 1996
immigration law:
* As of Saturday, an illegal immigrant found to be living in the country for 180
days will be barred from re-entering for three years.
* Someone discovered to be in the country illegally for one year on April1,
1998, will be prohibited from legal re-entry for 10 years.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JULIE PLASENCIA -- MERCURY NEWS
Clients fill the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in San Jose
before rules affecting illegal immigrants are to take effect.
[970924 FR 20A 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 30, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRANTS WIN NEW DEADLINE 3-WEEK EXTENSION SAVES THOUSANDS COSTLY TRIP ABROAD

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A day before thousands of illegal immigrants were to lose their eligibility to
remain in the United States while applying for legal residence, the House acted
Monday to extend the deadline by three weeks.

On a 355-57 vote, the House approved a stopgap bill to bankroll government
operations beyond the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year. The bill, which finances
government through Oct. 23 while Congress completes its appropriations process,
also would extend to that date the immigration provision due to expire
Wednesday. The Senate is expected to take up similar legislation today.

Immigrant communities nationwide have been in a panic in recent weeks over
possible revocation of the measure, which allows undocumented immigrants to file
in this country for legal status instead of at U.S. consulates abroad. In
exchange, the immigrants must pay a $1,000 fine.

More than 500 immigrants stood in a line Monday that snaked down a long city
block at the downtown San Jose office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Several sat on lawn chairs, sweating in the fierce heat. Those entering
the building at 3 p.m. said they had arrived at 5 a.m.

"What we really need is information. We don't understand what's happening and
how it affects us," said Antonio Montemayor, whose father petitioned for his
legal residency five years ago. Montemayor, 21, said he came to the United
States illegally 18 months ago, unable to make a living in his native Mexico.

Rosaura Ruiz, 34, said she feared she would have to leave her two children --
both U.S. citizens -- with their father in the United States if she could not
rectify her situation. Her husband, a legal resident, petitioned for her legal
residency two years ago.

"I don't want to pull them out of school," Ruiz said of her daughters, ages 6
and 8. "I don't know what to do. It seems we have few choices."

Contemplating expiration of the measure, tens of thousands of immigrants have
been confronted with a difficult choice -- remain here illegally or leave to
secure their green cards abroad. With the application process sometimes taking
years, the immigrants would face a lengthy period away from family andjobs if
they leave the United States.

The House action will give families a three-week respite before they have to
face that choice.

The legislation does not benefit all the 5 million-plus illegal immigrants
living in the United States. Instead, it is targeted at those eligible for legal
residence, either because they're already in line for visas or are the spouse or
minor child of a U.S. citizen. Parents of adult children who are U.S. citizens
also can apply.

About 345,000 people took advantage of the rule in 1995 and 1996. This year, an
estimated 214,000 are applying.

Critics say the program should be ended. They contend the government should not
reward immigrants who are here unlawfully at the expense of those who are
following the rules. Extension also would foster more illegal immigration, they
say.

"This is blatantly unfair to the millions of people around the world who abide
by our laws . . . and wait their turn," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington
Beach, urging his colleagues to defeat the legislation. "It makes a joke of our
immigration system."

But immigrant-rights groups argue that the provision, which is supported by
business and religious organizations, benefits only those who already are on
track for legal residence.

"It is a critical issue," said Abby Price, of the U.S. Catholic Conference's
Migration and Refugee Services. "There is a lot of panic out in the community."

Lawmakers will decide next month whether to renew the provision for a longer
period. The Senate already has approved a permanent extension.

While the Clinton administration supports extension of the provision, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is cautioning that the deadline remains
in effect until Congress passes and the president signs the extension.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Jennifer Mena contributed to this report

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Ruben Morales, center, with nothing to protect him from the sun, waits outside
the San Jose Immigration and Naturalization Service office Monday to file papers
to become a legal resident.
[970930 FR 4A 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 1, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMING TO AMERICA IT'S A LAW THAT ENCOURAGES 'BRIBERY'

BYLINE: DAN STEIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 551 words


EVERYONE who has studied the problem of illegal immigration agrees that the
United States must end the inducements that draw people to this country
illegally. Jobs, public benefits and the opportunity to legalize one's status
without leaving the country are all incentives to violate our immigration laws
-- and upwards of 5 million people have done just that.

Congress is about to decide whether to end or institutionalize a huge incentive
to illegal immigration. A provision known as Section 245-I of the immigration
code was approved on a trial basis in 1994, and is set to expire. Section 245-I
allows people who are in the country illegally to apply for a "green card"
without having to first return home, as had previously been required.

For a $1,000 fee, illegal immigrants who manage to create a pretext for
remaining here can purchase indemnity from the laws they violated. Under this
gaping loophole, 230,000 illegal aliens bought their way into the country in
1996.

The vast majority of people taking advantage of the 245-I loophole are not
innocent victims of arcane immigration laws, who just happened to "fall out of
status." Sixty-two percent of the beneficiaries in 1996 were people who entered
the U.S. illegally and were never "in status," and the rest consciously
overstayed their welcome. No one who has played by the rules will be adversely
affected if this loophole is closed.

Extension of 245-I will not only reward those who violate our immigration laws,
but will effectively penalize millions of would-be immigrants who obey the law.
There are more than 4 million people waiting for immigration visas (some for
more than a decade) in their homelands. Meanwhile, the government is offering
hundreds of thousands of illegals the chance to skip to the head of the line,
for what amounts to a $1,000 bribe. Most immigration applicants would jump at
this opportunity to expedite their admission to this country.

Supporters of extending 245-I justify this loophole as a revenue-generating
mechanism for the cash-strapped INS. No doubt the $230 million 245-I raised last
year was a nice supplement to the agency's budget. However, it is the result of
an institutionalized bribery program that causes to INS to rely on illegal
behavior for its operating revenue.

Nor is the $1,000 that an illegal immigrant pays to adjust status a fine in the
classical sense. When we pay a fine for speeding on the freeway or parking at an
expired meter, it does not entitle us to continue speeding or absolve us from
sticking a quarter in the next parking meter.

From the standpoint of law enforcement, 245-I is equally shocking. What this
provision does is reward the INS for failure. The more people the INS fails to
stop from entering or remaining in this country illegally, the more money it
stands to make.

In 1996, Congress attempted to create a deterrent to illegal immigration by
barring those who violate our immigration laws from becoming legal immigrants
for up to 10 years. Until we demonstrate that there are some consequences to
violating our immigration laws, we should not expect anyone to obey them.

Extending 245-I is a short-sighted policy that will further reinforce the
widespread belief that violating U.S. immigration laws will be rewarded.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Dan Stein is the executive director of FAIR, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform.
RELATED STORY: page 6B

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 1, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FACE CHOICES LAW SAID TO CONDONE ILLEGAL RESIDENCY MAY EXPIRE

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 862 words


Even with Tuesday's three-week reprieve from Congress, thousands of illegal
immigrants trying to gain legal status still hear a time bomb ticking. But
millions of others who have ignored the law for years are still winking at it.

The irony is not lost on immigration-rights advocates: Those who have nothing to
lose are the least concerned about a new Oct. 23 expiration date of a measure
that allowed many illegal immigrants to pay a fine rather than leave the
country. The new deadline was set in a stopgap budget bill approved Monday by
the House and Tuesday by the Senate.

Under a 3-year-old provision known as 245-I, hundreds of thousands of illegal
immigrants have paid $1,000 fines to remain in the United States while waiting
for legal residency.

Paying the fine will allow the illegal immigrants to remain in the country
indefinitely. But they will not be allowed to legally re-enter the country again
if they leave, INS officials say.

But most illegal immigrants who have no chance of becoming legal residents
seemed unconcerned or uninformed about the get-tough legislation.

"For me, there are few options. I work here and I make money or I go home and
starve," said Gabriel, a 24-year-old handyman from Mexico who works for $6 to $8
an hour. (He did not reveal his last name.)

Fears of deportation
INS officials concede that economic migrants like Gabriel are not deportation
targets. Even with the new penalties, INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said, the
agency will still make the deportation of illegal immigrants who commit crimes
its greatest priority.

Immigrant-rights advocates question the wisdom of a series of laws taking effect
this week because, they argue, they'll do little but split families made up of
legal and illegal immigrants. INS statistics show 40 percent of those who paid a
245-I fine in 1996 were the spouses of U.S. citizens; 16 percent were employees
who gained visas through their employers.

"The most serious impact is on those who have played by the rules," said Robert
Rubin, deputy director of the San Francisco-based Lawyers' Committee for Civil
Rights.

But those who have lobbied for stringent measures against illegal immigration
contend that the law now rewards those who broke U.S. laws by entering the
country without authorization or by overstaying visas.

Little sympathy
"It's easy to feel bad for those who have to break away from their families, but
they are the ones who broke all the laws," said K.C. McAlpin, deputy director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

On Saturday, just days before 245-I was to expire, a new law went into effect
that prohibited anyone in the United States 180 days from gaining legal entry
for three years. And on April 1, 1998, those who have been in the United States
illegally one year would be barred from legal entry for 10 years.

Maria Picetti, director of immigration legal service at Catholic Charities, said
the 245-I expiration and the new penalties sent a wave of panic among illegal
immigrants with INS applications pending.

"I can't tell them what to do," she said. "I explain to them the options. Many
say they can't go. They have children in school. Their husbands have jobs. It's
a confused and conflicted time for them."

The Clinton administration and the INS support extending 245-I indefinitely
because the fines have helped fund U.S. Border Patrol operations. Indeed, the
measure has generated hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for the agency.

Of the estimated 5 million illegal immigrants in the United States, 345,000
people took advantage of the rule in 1995 and 1996. An estimated 214,000 applied
this year.

Uphill fight for extension
Congress is expected to decide later this month whether to extend 245-I
permanently, but it could face strong opposition in the House of
Representatives. The Senate already has approved a permanent extension.

Those waiting outside the INS office in San Jose Tuesday said they really didn't
know too much about the new law or the expiration of 245-I. But they said they
hoped to get legal residency before they were punished.

"I really don't know what is happening (but) I know a lot of people are happy
because we have three weeks to work things out," said Magdalena, who entered the
United States illegally three years ago, married a U.S. citizen but was unsure
if her paperwork had been processed properly.

She arrived at the San Jose office of the INS at 5 a.m. with an umbrella and
found a multitude of immigrants armed with strollers, sleeping bags and folding
chairs looking for similar information.

A Mexico City native who identified himself as Chris said he'll stay no matter
what because his three children are doing well in school, his wife is a
bilingual teacher and he has a long list of people who need his work as a
carpenter.

Chris said his brother, a U.S. citizen, petitioned for legal residency for his
whole family in 1990. But Chris said he's still on a long waiting list.

"The situation makes me feel like this is our last chance to be legal," he said.
"But at this point, I don't want to leave my whole life behind."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Juan Soria, 3 months, waits with his mother, 15-year-old Reyna Soria (out of
sight), to file papers at the INS office in San Jose.
[971001 LO 2B]
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER -- MERCURY NEWS
Angel Serrano fights off boredom while waiting more than four hours to file
papers at the INS office in San Jose.
[971001 LO 1B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 1, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COMING TO AMERICA SECTION 245-I SHOULD BECOME PERMANENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 634 words


CONGRESS has given some breathing space to illegal immigrants in the United
States who are eligible to become legal. Now it needs to permanently fix the law
that creates unfair and unnecessary difficulties for immigrants who are all but
certain to receive permission to stay.

A part of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1994, known as Section 245-I,
allows immigrants here illegally to remain while they apply for the green card
that is their permission to live here legally. It was due to expire Tuesday,
before the House and Senate extended it for three weeks.

Section 245-I does not affect all of the 5 million illegal immigrants who eke
out an undocumented existence in the United States. Instead, it benefits the 1
million immigrants who are eligible for legal status. Around seventy percent of
the 230,000 Section 245-I applicants in 1996 were spouses or children of U.S.
citizens, or parents of adult children who are U.S. citizens. Many arrived
legally, on tourist visas, for instance, but have overstayed their visas to
remain with their families.

Under the provision, these immigrants are allowed to remain in the country
legally to process their paperwork, if they pay a $1,000 fine.

The provision not only allows immigrant families to stay together in this
country while wading through Kafkaesque immigration regulations. It also reduces
paperwork at State Department consulates around the world, where immigrants
would otherwise have to apply. The fines provided the INS with $230 million in
revenues last year alone, funds that were earmarked for deportation camps and
citizenship classes.

The looming expiration of Section 245-I sent hundreds of illegal immigrants
scrambling to local INS offices to apply before the deadline. While Congress has
given them a brief reprieve, it should make the provision permanent.

The issue is all the more urgent because of another immigration law that kicked
in Saturday. It says that any illegal immigrant caught in the United States is
not eligible to re-enter the country legally for three years. After April 1,
1998, any immigrant in this country illegally for more than a year would be
ineligible for legal entry for 10 years.

If Section 245-I is not extended, immigrants will face an impossible dilemma. If
they leave the country now to apply for residency from their home country they
risk being separated from their families for three to 10 years. If they choose
to stay with their families, they risk being caught and deported.

Opponents of Section 245-I (see adjacent column) argue that the provision is a
kind of institutionalized bribery that allows illegal immigrants to jump lines
and buy their way into this country.

But failure to extend this provision would be barking up the wrong tree, forcing
immigrants who could become citizens to remain underground, rather than
encouraging them to come clean with immigration authorities and get their visas
in order. It will not affect the millions of undocumented immigrants who slip in
and out of the country without inspection. They will just continue to circumvent
the law.

The losers will not just be families and those on the verge of getting their
green cards. Employers will lose valuable foreign employees who do not wish to
be separated from their families. The INS -- which supports extension of the
provision -- will lose valuable revenues. And the State Department will have to
spend taxpayer's money employing extra U.S. staff at consulates abroad.

The Senate has already voted to extend Section 245-I permanently. The House
would do well to follow its lead. And both houses would do well to concentrate
legislative energy on deterring illegal entry at border points, rather than
penalizing those who are on the verge of legal residency.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
RELATED STORY: page 6B

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JIM GENSHEIMER - MERCURY NEWS
Reyna Soria waits in line Monday with her son, Juan, at the San Jose INS office
to apply for legal status before the deadline. She got in line at 8 a.m. and was
still waiting at 2 p.m.
[971001 ED 6B]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 2, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LET THE SUN SET ON SECTION 245-I

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 1094 words


THE reversion of immigration law to pre-1994 status by the sunset of Section
245-I (Opinion, Oct. 1) was planned when that law was passed. It was intended
that the effects of the law would be evaluated after atrial period of three
years. The trial period is over.

Allowing entrance to this country without legal documents and without background
checks has resulted in the arrival of many illegal aliens. In 1995 and 1996 some
345,000 people used this loophole. In 1997, the INS is expecting nearly 200,000
illegal aliens to use 245-I. If this law was meant to facilitate legalization of
a few people who mistakenly arrived ahead of formal permission, it has been
abused on a grand scale. This temporary provision was subversive of our
immigration laws on its very face: Come illegally, pay $1,000, stay to become
legal.

It is time to sunset a law which has attracted hundreds of thousands people to
enter this country illegally.

-- Raymond R. White
Palo Alto
YOU got some facts seriously wrong in your story "New law creates tough choices"
(Page 1A, Sept. 24).

You state that the law adopted last year changed the rules in mid-stream
because, "Until now, an illegal immigrant who was arrested and deported could
enter legally at any later date." The fact is that prior to adoption of the new
law, there was a five-year penalty to legal admission for anyone deported.

Other information supplied by immigration rights advocates is also wrong. No one
who has already applied for adjustment of status under section 245-I faces new
penalties under the new law. And no one who is ineligible for legal residence
now has been "told by the government that it was perfectly OK to stay in the
country while their papers were processed," as you state.

The spouses of some former illegal aliens who were given amnesty under the 1986
law may fit that description, but they were explicitly excluded from the
provision of the new law and have nothing to be concerned about.

Your article also obscures the point of the new measures. They are designed to
discourage illegal entry by inserting meaningful penalties in the law against
those who willfully and flagrantly violate our immigration laws.

-- John Martin
Federation for American
Immigration Reform
Washington D.C.
THE temporary legislation known as 245-I allows illegal aliens to pay $1,000 and
stay in the country while they supposedly try to get permission to stay. It does
not weed out dangerous criminals, gang members or terrorists. It allows illegal
aliens to just disappear and not show up for further hearings. There are
remedies for special cases, but allowing it for everyone just lets the world
know that the U.S. is not serious about protecting its sovereignty.

-- C.A. Joyal
Los Gatos
Good-sense drug policy
HAVE the Swiss lost their clock-ticking minds? How could over 70 of Swiss voters
(Page 12A, Sept. 29) approve their government's distribution of heroin to
addicts? Why have they accepted storefronts where addicts walk in off the
street, sit down and inject illegal drugs under medical supervision? After a
decade of experience, how could the Swiss vote to embrace needle exchange
programs in their beautiful and notoriously clean communities?

What could the Swiss be thinking? Well, possibly enough of them actually looked
at the carefully conducted research on two-year heroin prescription pilot
programs. The research demonstrates not only dramatically improved health and
social integration for the hard-core addicts, but also a greater than 75 percent
reduction in drug-related crime by those enrolled in the programs.

The Swiss are a famously practical people. Maybe we could learn something from
them. But first, we must face the fact that America has the worst drug problem
in the world because it has the worst drug policy in the world.

-- Joey Tranchina
Redwood City
Headwaters coverage
I was very disappointed with your coverage of the rally to save the Headwaters
forest (Page 3B, Sept. 15). Not only did your headlines and photo captions make
the rally look like a big bunch of hippies "chanting and beating drums," you
failed to give any more than the bare minimum information about the issue
itself.

While there are many people on the North Coast who ignorantly support anything
the timber industry says or does and resent any opposition to logging, this
year's rally focused more than ever before on working with residents and timber
industry workers. More and more people whose paychecks come from timber
companies and even Pacific Lumber are starting to realize thefoolishness of
logging Headwaters and of ruthless industrial logging practices in general.

It would be nice to see serious coverage of the Headwaters forest issue in the
future.

-- Nikolai Barca-Hall
Los Gatos
Flawed pesticide study
The Mercury News' report on pesticide use in California (Page 1B, Sept. 18)
failed to point out the superficiality of the study entitled "Rising Toxic
Tide."

The study highlighted a jump in pesticide usage from 1991-95, but it ignored the
key fact that most of the increase occurred in one year -- when a drought ended
and wet weather encouraged more acreage, and an increase in pests.

The study's sponsors needlessly inflamed public fear with references to large
increases in "cancer-causing pesticides." Yet both the study and the Mercury
News ignored the fact that more than a third of the increased poundage came from
a natural chemical -- sulfur -- favored by organic and conventional farmers
alike.

The study also demeaned work by Cal/EPA's Department of Pesticide Regulation to
develop reduced-risk strategies in pest control. These programs have won
international recognition since 1973. In the coming year, DPR will award more
than $1.5 million in grants for enviromentally-friendly projects on farms and in
urban areas.

-- James W. Wells
Director, Department of
Pesticide Regulation
Sacramento
Killers' victims
SUSAN Duarte claimed that I made "the consummate argument against the death
penalty" in remarks regarding a recent prosecution of gang members for seven San
Jose murders, including the execution of a 21-year old mother (Letters, Sept.
25).

My actual comment, which was not quoted in its entirety in the original news
story, was: "These people (murder victims) . . . did not deserve to die at the
hands of the gang."

Unrepentant serial killers are far more than "annoying folks," as Ms. Duarte
terms them.

-- Catherine Pozos Constantinides
Deputy district attorney,
Santa Clara County

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 14, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN EASING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A year after passing a tough new immigration law, Congress is relaxing
provisions that would have forced hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants
and refugees out of the United States.

Immigrant advocacy groups welcomed the moves, which they attribute largely to a
desire on the part of Republican leaders to quell perceptions that the GOP is
anti-immigrant.

But others accused lawmakers of abandoning their earlier resolve to crack down
on illegal immigration, bowing instead to a drumbeat of individuals' hard-luck
stories and heavy lobbying from business, religious and immigrant organizations.

"The rollbacks that we've seen this year are directed at some of the most
significant of those reforms" in the 1996 law, said Mark Krikorian of the Center
for Immigration Studies, which contends current immigration levels are too high.

The immigration provisions were eased on two fronts:

* A deal approved Thursday night by Congress, which now goes to President
Clinton for his signature, would allow illegal immigrants with "green card"
applications filed by Jan. 14, 1998, to pay a $1,000 fine and remain in the
United States while the government processes their paperwork. More than 1
million people could be helped by this provision, which replaces a 1994 law
expiring at midnight tonight. The deal marks a compromise between the Senate,
which favored permanent extension of the 1994 law, and House GOP leaders eager
to terminate a program they see as a magnet for illegal immigration.

Allowing applicants to remain here pending completion of their paperwork spares
them from a key sanction in the 1996 immigration law. Under that law, people
found to have lived here illegally can be barred from re-entering for up to 10
years. Illegal immigrants applying for legal permanent residence after Jan. 14
will have to return to their homelands to do so.

* Also Thursday, the Senate gave final approval to a relief measure for hundreds
of thousands of Central Americans who sought safe harbor here in the 1980s from
civil wars in their countries. The House passed the legislation Wednesday, and
it now goes to the president.

Nicaraguan and Cuban refugees become automatically eligible for legal permanent
residence. Those from El Salvador, Guatemala and Eastern Europe can apply for
suspension of deportation under pre-1996 rules, which are less severe. But they
still must prove to the government that it would be a hardship to leave.

Some advocates for immigrants accused Republicans of playing favorites with
certain Latin-American groups. Others fumed that Haitian refugees were granted
no protection despite a strong push by the Congressional Black Caucus.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 17, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION 'HELP' THAT ISN'T STOREFRONT CONSULTANTS' ADVICE CAN HURT
UNDOCUMENTED MIGRANTS

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1780 words


Many illegal immigrants desperate for a chance to stay in the United States are
turning to storefront income-tax preparers, travel agencies and notaries public
who promise legitimate green cards for a fee.

But these "immigration consultants" frequently operate in violation of state
laws. According to state records, court files and immigration attorneys, many
even jeopardize their clients' future in this country by giving "legal advice"
that hurts -- rather than helps -- those seeking legal status.

Further, there is little regulation of the growing industry, partly because
victims are reluctant to complain to authorities and partly because the
authorities lack the resources or the interest to police the consultants.

"The abuse problem is widespread," said Mark Silverman, an attorney with the
Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco, which has clients throughout
the Bay Area. "It varies from just outright fraud and abuse to incompetency."

And the problem is growing as illegal immigrants face tougher immigration laws
or deadlines for residency applications.

More and more often, immigrants seek consultants -- who charge as much as $3,000
-- after exhausting all other avenues in their quest for permanent residency,
including free consultations with non-profit attorneys.

"I always worry that people walk out of here hearing, 'No, no, no,' " said Vilma
Guerrero, a lawyer with the East San Jose Community Law Center, "and they go to
any notary or immigration consultant who says, 'Yes, yes, yes.' "

Under state law, immigration consultants are limited to assisting immigration
and naturalization applicants in completing federal forms.

But from a review of documents on file with the Secretary of State's Office;
lawsuits filed against consultants; and more than two dozen interviews with
attorneys, consultants and their clients, the Mercury News has found that:

* Few of the consulting firms in California are bonded as required by the
state's Business and Professions Code. The $10,000 bond is meant to ensure there
is redress for the firms' clients, should they receive shoddy or inadequate
work.

According to state records, just 115 consultants are bonded -- a fraction of the
more than 2,000 believed to be in business. In San Jose, at least 20 consultants
are operating, but only two are bonded.

* Many consulting firms use Spanish phrases that suggest they are attorneys even
though that wording is specifically barred by state law and the firms are
specifically forbidden from offering legal advice. In fact, they are required by
law to post signs saying they are not attorneys. Most do not.

* According to state and court records, some firms routinely -- and sometimes
without the knowledge of their clients -- file requests for political asylum
rather than standard residency applications. Most often the applicants are from
Mexico, a generally stable country whose citizens are rarely granted asylum.

As a result, immigration law experts estimate, thousands of illegal immigrants
have ended up with a deportation order rather than a green card.

* Firms that violate the laws are seldom caught and prosecuted. Although
consultants are supposed to file bonds with the Secretary of State's Office,
that office has no power to take legal action against violators. Enforcement is
left to local district attorneys. Some district attorneys, however, generally
pursue cases against unlawful consultants only when victims complain. Often in
these cases, victims are illegal immigrants too scared to approach authorities
or testify in court.

A 30-year-old Gilroy mother of three is among dozens of immigrants in Northern
California facing possible deportation after going to an immigration consultant.

The woman said employees at Pronto Dollars of Gilroy promised her a green card
for a $300 fee and that it wasn't until after she sent her application to the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service that she realized she had applied
for asylum.

"What hurts me the least is the money I spent," said the undocumented Mexico
native, who doesn't expect the Immigration and Naturalization Service to grant
her asylum petition. "What hurts the most is what's most important to me: my
family. What's going to happen with them?"

Like more than 5 million other illegal immigrants in the United States, she was
likely to escape detection by immigration authorities. But the moment she
applied for asylum, her name was entered into an INS database as an illegal
immigrant who will be ordered to leave if asylum is not granted in the coming
months.

Her case is typical, say immigration attorneys, who estimate that more than half
of consultants are either incompetent or fraudulent.

The asylum procedure is encouraged by consultants because, even if the petition
is denied and deportation is ordered, the applicant is entitled to a hearing
before a judge. At the hearing, clients can try to convince the judge that being
deported will cause hardship, especially if the departure would break up a
family.

Like the Gilroy mother, many other immigrants enter the INS hearing room
unprepared because they didn't know until the last minute that they had applied
for asylum, Immigrant Legal Resource attorney Kathy Brady said.

She said she knows of several cases in which an immigration officer has asked a
Mexican-born applicant, "Why are you afraid to go to your country?" To which the
applicant, surprised he or she had applied for asylum, has responded: "All I
wanted was a work permit."

The Gilroy mother is among the dozens of former clients of Pronto -- which has
offices in Gilroy, Soledad and Salinas -- who filed a lawsuit in Monterey County
Superior Court in June, alleging several Business and Professions Code
violations.

"We have at least 20 families who paid at least $300, and most of them are going
to end up in deportation hearings," said attorney Saul Garcia, who filed the
case for California Rural Legal Assistance.

Pronto's attorney, Michael Alvarez, admits the business once was operating in
violation of the code but says it was only because its owners were "ill-advised"
by a previous attorney.

Pronto and the consulting firm operating out of its office, La Paz Immigration,
have since filed the bond, according to the Secretary of State's Office. And
Pronto Dollars no longer is helping clients apply for asylum, Alvarez said.

No testing, paperwork needed

Unlike other professions and occupations covered by state law, such as notaries
public, consultants take no tests and are not required to submit documents to
state authorities, other than the bond. The bonding requirement applies to all
consultants except those who are attorneys or work at non-profit agencies.

Immigration attorneys complain that clients have no way of knowing who isbonded
unless they contact the Secretary of State's Office in Sacramento, which is
unlikely to happen.

In San Jose, there are at least 20 consulting firms in operation, according to
phone book listings, advertisements in bilingual publications, window signs and
other sources. Twelve of the San Jose consultants listed in the local Yellow
Pages directory under the heading "Immigration & Naturalization Consultants" are
neither attorneys nor non-profit agencies.

But, according to the Secretary of State's Office, only one of the dozen
consultants surveyed by the Mercury News has filed the bond.

Most said they did not know a bond was required. But a spokesman for the
Secretary of State's Office said the bonding requirement should be obvious to
those entering the business.

"They would know the way any other individuals who set up a business -- they do
research," spokesman Alfred Charles said.

In addition, visits to several of the firms and interviews with the owners of
others revealed that 11 of the 12 businesses had not posted a prominent sign
stating the employees are not attorneys, a requirement under state law.

But at least one local consultant, working out of a South San Jose strip mall,
had posted a sign declaring the firm was a notario publico -- even though state
law prohibits consultants from using certain Spanish phrases, including notario
publico, or notary public.

In Latin America, notario often means an attorney or judge, while in California,
a notary is somebody who passed a test to administer oaths and verify
signatures.

Violations of this kind can bring fines of up to $10,000 and misdemeanor
charges, according to the Business and Professions Code.

District attorneys have pursued cases against some consultants who are operating
in violation of state law, but only when victims are willing to come forward.
And that isn't very often.

"It's probably an under-reported issue," said Patti McRae, mediation director at
the consumer protection division of the Santa Clara County District Attorney's
Office.

McRae said two San Jose consultants are under investigation "for their failure
to provide consumers their proper rights under the law." She declined to
identify the businesses or provide details of the probe.

"Law enforcement is not all that proactive in this area of investigation,"
acknowledged Joe Buckalew, a Monterey County deputy district attorney. Buckalew
has successfully prosecuted two cases against consultants, including one in
which his prime witness, a victim, was eventually deported.

"I think it needs more resources thrown at it, and it needs more attention," he
said.

Aggressive prosecution

Attorneys who specialize in immigration law agree and suggest strongly that
district attorneys need to be more aggressive about going after consultants who
violate the law.

"These offices are sometimes financially strapped; they don't understand the
statutes that are sort of technical in nature, so they don't jump at trying to
get these guys," said Sara Campos, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee for
Civil Rights in San Francisco.

Federal, state and local officials have suggested solutions to curb problems
within the industry.

U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno recently urged local immigration attorneys to
help educate the public about consultants. Last month, Gov. Pete Wilson signed
into law a bill increasing the bond to $25,000, beginning Jan. 1. And the
Secretary of State's Office and the National Notary Association are working with
a Southern California Mexican-American bar association, hoping attorneys will
spread the word.

"There's all these people preying on other people," Undersecretary of State Rob
Lapsley said. "It's really disappointing, but it really makes us motivated in
trying to reach these folks."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LG FRANCIS -- MERCURY NEWS
Under state law, consultants are prohibited from using the words "notario
publico," which may imply that legal advice is being offered.
[971117 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 5, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FORMER MAID FOR WILSON NOT DEPORTED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT: ISSUE HURT GOVERNOR'S BID
TO BECOME PRESIDENT.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 461 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Gov. Pete Wilson's former maid Thursday avoided deportation to her native
Mexico, but said after a hearing that Wilson knew she was in this country
illegally when he hired her.

"They knew because they asked when I first started working for them," Josefina
Delgado Klag said. She also said there were other undocumented domestics at the
Wilsons' when she signed on with the household in the late 1970s.

Through a spokesman, Wilson denied the allegation. The governor was mayor of San
Diego at the time.

"The governor did not know what her legal status was," spokesman Sean Walsh said
in Sacramento.

Klag turned herself in this year after the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service issued an arrest warrant accusing her of lying on a 1979 application for
U.S. residency.

Immigration Judge Rico Bartolomei said Klag may have misunderstood questions
about her marital status. Klag has a sixth-grade education from Mexican schools.
She can read Spanish but has trouble with English.

In March 1976, Klag was married to Edward Eberhart, a U.S. citizen, for eight
days.

There was no evidence that the marriage was annulled. However, Klag testified
that she believed the marriage had been annulled, and signed a document to that
effect for Eberhart.

Klag told the court that she felt free to marry Christian Delgado in December
1978.

The judge said her failure to tell the INS about the previous marriage was not
"willfully misleading."

"The INS did not meet its burden of proof," Bartolomei said.

Klag, 54, hasn't had contact with Wilson since her three-year employment stint,
she said.

At the time, it was not a crime to hire an illegal immigrant. But employers were
required to pay Social Security taxes.

Wilson paid $15,000 in federal taxes and penalties after it was revealed in 1995
that he failed to pay Social Security taxes for three housekeepers between 1971
and 1990.

"The governor has paid all taxes relating to Ms. Klag's employment, and in our
view this matter is closed," Walsh said.

The flap helped sink Wilson's bid for the Republican presidential nomination
last year, especially since he campaigned for tougher immigration laws.

Wilson also backed a 1994 initiative that would deny education, welfare and
non-emergency health care to undocumented immigrants. Proposition 187 was ruled
unconstitutional by a federal judge last month.

"In office, he attacks illegal immigrants. At home, he hired illegal maids to
clean his toilet bowl," said Bob Mulholland, a spokesman for the state
Democratic Party.

"These deportation proceedings in themselves don't involve political issues,"
said Richard Pray, Klag's attorney. "This case was instigated by political
motivations, specifically by the Democratic Party."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 16, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER-CONTROL SUCCESS FOUND HARD TO GAUGE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 152 words


Despite pouring billions of dollars into a campaign to cut illegal immigration
over the last four years, the federal government has no way of knowing whether
its measures are working, a General Accounting Office report says. In the first
of a series of reports mandated by a 1996 immigration reform law, the GAO
determined that the Immigration and Naturalization Service "has made progress"
in implementing parts of its 1994 border-control strategy.

But the office, which audits government programs for Congress, said it could not
tell whether the agency was achieving its main aim of actually reducing the flow
of illegal immigrants across the U.S.-Mexican border. The overall results of the
INS strategy were thus "inconclusive," the GAO said. It recommended that the
attorney general, whose department includes the INS, develop a plan to
comprehensively and systematically evaluate the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 11, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DETAINEES RISE UP AT EL CENTRO CENTER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 76 words


Dozens of immigrants awaiting deportation hearings smashed lights and used
upended mattresses as barricades at an El Centro INS detention center in a
12-hour standoff Tuesday that left three guards injured. The immigrants agreed
to surrender about 10 a.m. after negotiations with FBI agents, said spokesman
Rudy Murillo of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The uprising,
involving about 180 inmates, began during a search for weapons and drugs.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 25, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. WILL PROBE IMMIGRANT ABUSE MEXICAN DEAF-MUTES SPUR CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: MICHAEL BLOOD, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Less than a week after deaf Mexicans were found living in what investigators
said was virtual slavery, a federal task force has been established to
investigate abuses against illegal immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service team will "examine the leads and
anecdotal information about abuse, coercion, extortion of immigrants," INS
Commissioner Doris Meissner said Thursday.

INS "will not tolerate the type of inhumane treatment that this case has shown,"
she said. "What we are talking about right now are abuse and smugglers who are
engaged in abuse."

Seven other Mexican immigrants are accused of smuggling the victims into the
United States, then forcing them to peddle $1 trinkets on subways and surrender
the profits. They are charged with immigrant-smuggling, grand larceny and
extortion.

Since the arrests, the INS has received tips from cities including San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago, Atlanta, San Diego, Houston and New Orleans
reporting similar abuses.

Thursday, Mexican consular officials reported finding two dozen deaf Mexicans in
Sanford, N.C., where -- like the New York group -- they were selling key chains
on the street, and six in Chicago.

In New York, the Mexican victims are being held in a motel, and are considered
potential witnesses in the criminal probe. Four children may be U.S. citizens
because they reportedly were born in the United States, but the rest appear
undocumented, said INS spokesman Russ Bergeron.

When interviews are completed, the government will consider granting them
special visas reserved for witnesses who provide testimony in criminal cases,
said U.S. Attorney Zachary Carter.

"There are absolutely no plans to remove any of these people from the United
States at this time," said Meissner, who spoke at a City Hall news conference
via a phone hookup from Washington.

The New York case was uncovered with a tip from four Mexican deaf-mutes, who
walked into a Queens precinct house Saturday. Police later found the victims
living in two crowded homes. Doctors who examined the Mexicans found that some
showed signs of physical abuse.

The adult deaf-mutes have communicated with the help of Spanish-speaking
sign-language translators. A suspected ringleader is still at large.

"The plight of these people -- the people who were being held under conditions
of what appear to be bondage and slavery -- has touched every single New
Yorker," said Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, left, aide Colleen Roche and Mexican Consul
General Jorge Pinto discuss the abuse probe.
[970725 FR 4A 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 27, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TO BEEF UP PATROLS ALONG TEXAS BORDER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


A new crackdown on illegal immigration will funnel hundreds of new agents and
high-tech equipment to the Texas-Mexico border, federal officials announced
Saturday.

Under Operation Rio Grande, the Immigration and Naturalization Service will
dispatch 69 agents to Brownsville from other parts of the country by Aug. 25,
INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced.

By January, more than 100 agents will be in place in Brownsville, with a total
of 270 new agents in the McAllen sector of the Border Patrol.

Illegal-immigrant captures along the 280-mile stretch of border from Padre
Island west to the small Starr County town of Roma have increased 21 percent in
the past six months.

Meissner said Operation Rio Grande is starting in the lower Rio Grande Valley
because "this is the part of Texas most heavily pressured right now by both
illegal immigration and illegal drug crossings. As we get control in this area,
we'll then begin to spread toward Laredo and further west."

More to come By the end of this fiscal year, INS will have increased
agentstrength in Texas by 53 percent over the past four years, from 1,756 to
2,693, Meissner said.

And more agents might be on the way in 1998. Legislation that would authorize
1,000 new Border Patrol agents, more than half of whom would be stationed in
Texas, is pending in Congress.

Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, hailed Saturday's announcement as "a solid
down payment." "Washington has a clear duty to strengthen law enforcement
efforts here," she said. "We have to keep the pressure on."

In addition to more manpower, Operation Rio Grande will enhance technology
already in place along the Texas-Mexico border, providing additional night
scopes, electronic fingerprinting equipment and additional lighting,
particularly in downtown areas along the Rio Grande.

Operation Rio Grande continues the mission of Operation Hold the Line, initiated
four years ago in San Diego and El Paso. At the time, those areas were the two
most popular border crossing points for illegal immigrants.

But since then, the McAllen sector has seen its illegal-immigrant apprehensions
skyrocket. Agents now handle 20 percent of the immigrant apprehensions along the
U.S.-Mexico border, second only to San Diego, and 24 percent of border drug
seizures.

"We now have the critical mass of resources that we need here in order to put
tactics into place that have proven to be effective elsewhere," Meissner said.

With the crackdown in the Rio Grande Valley, there is a concern that
undocumented immigrants will move northwest. Dan Kane, INS spokesman in El Paso,
said his agency would be monitoring the El Paso border in the next few months
and would dispatch more agents to those ports of entry if certain "triggers"
occur.

Drastic factors

The triggers include a dramatic increase in any of the following: fraudulent
documents or people falsely claiming U.S. citizenship, immigrant or drug
smuggling, pedestrians or vehicles running through ports of entry, officer
assaults, undocumented street beggars or vendors, citizen complaints, protests,
bridge blockades, damage to border barricades, or a significant change in the
political or economic situation in Mexico.

"These are the key triggers we will be looking at," Kane said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 1, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 MEN ARRESTED IN DEAF MEXICAN SMUGGLING CASE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 209 words


Federal authorities Thursday charged three men with running an operation based
in Southern California through which possibly hundreds of deaf Mexicans were
smuggled across the border, kept briefly in a Los Angeles house, then taken to
New York City, where they were held in virtual slavery and forced to peddle
trinkets. Zachary Carter, the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn, announced the arrests
of Andreas Pfeiffer and Lalo Paoletti, whom he identified as leaders of the Los
Angeles smuggling ring, and Paoletti's son, Carlos, a midlevel manager.
Authorities described them as associates of the extended Paoletti family, a
Mexico City-based clan whose members have beencharged with holding 62 deaf
illegal immigrants in two safe houses in Queens.

At the same time, officials announced the arrest in Chicago of Pedro Santamaria
on related charges of smuggling immigrants. He is alleged to have supervised the
trinket-selling activities of a group of illegal Mexican immigrants there before
transporting them to New York to work in the Queens operation, which
investigators now believe was closely linked to the Chicago group. The arrests
bring to 16 the number of people charged in the case, and Carter said that
additional charges were expected.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 27, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS MAY GET BRIEF DEADLINE EXTENSION TIME'S UP: THOSE WITHOUT
DOCUMENTS MUST FILE BY TUESDAY.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 524 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Congress will consider giving illegal immigrants three more weeks to take
advantage of a program that allows them to pay a $1,000 fine and stay in the
United States while seeking legal residence.

Thousands have been in a panic over Tuesday's scheduled expiration of a measure
that lets undocumented immigrants file here for legal status instead of at U.S.
consulates abroad.

With Congress still far from having completed its appropriations process for the
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, the House on Monday will consider a stopgap
spending bill to finance the government through Oct. 23.

Included in that bill is a three-week extension of the immigration provision.

Initially, a longer extension was contemplated, House GOP sources said. But it
was shortened to three weeks after Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Huntington Beach,
threatened to delay passage of the stopgap spending bill. He lifted hisobjection
after securing a commitment from the Republican leadership to schedule a vote on
the provision later this year.

"I believe that if there is an up-or-down vote that the members of Congress will
not vote to keep illegal aliens in the country," Rohrabacher said.

Rohrabacher and others contend the United States shouldn't reward immigrants who
either came here unlawfully or overstayed their temporary visas at the expense
of others who followed the rules.

But immigrant-rights groups argue that the provision benefits only those who
already are on track for legal residence.

In 1995 and 1996, 345,000 people took advantage of the rule. This year, an
estimated 214,000 are applying.

Facing possible expiration of the measure, tens of thousands of immigrants have
been confronted with a difficult choice: Remain here illegally or leave to
secure green cards from U.S. consulates abroad. With the application process
sometimes taking years, the immigrants would face a lengthy period away from
family and jobs by leaving the United States.

"All the people are in panic," said Yolanda Ruiz of Bilingual Services of San
Jose, a notary who prepares immigration forms. "They think they have to go out
of the United States. The children have left school to go to Mexico. These are
very nervous people. They don't know what to do."

Adding urgency to the dilemma is a separate deadline mandated under the 1996
immigration law. As of today, illegal immigrants found to have been here six
months or more face a three-year ban on readmission. Those here unlawfully for a
year or more face a 10-year ban on re-entry.

Confronted with the two deadlines, thousands have been pondering whether to
leave the country, but few illegal immigrants appear to be leaving.

Several immigrants interviewed by the Mercury News who had previously planned to
leave put their plans on hold to see whether Congress would provide some
11th-hour relief.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Friday issued a statement noting
the Clinton administration supports extension of the measure. The agency
cautioned, however, that the Tuesday deadline remains in effect unless Congress
passes and the president signs the bill before then.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Jennifer Mena contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Rohrabacher
[970927 FR 6A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 31, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS DEPORTS RECORD NUMBERS IN 1997 NEW RULES, QUICKER HANDLING OF CASES MEAN
MORE EXPULSIONS;
THE MOST EVER

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 350 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The government forced more than 111,000 illegal immigrants to leave the country
in the past year, the largest number in U.S. history. Almost half had criminal
records.

Attorney General Janet Reno called it "a significant milestone." The
deportations and other removals eclipsed the old record of 69,000 set in fiscal
1996.

Reno told a news conference that with continued support from Congress for
expanded enforcement staff and more jails, "we can and will make America's
streets and communities safer by deporting criminal aliens."

Three-quarters of those expelled were from Mexico, followed by El Salvador,
Honduras and Guatemala.

Of the 46,000 people deported from California, the overwhelming majority --
23,206 -- were from the San Diego district. Only 1,871 were from the San
Francisco district, which includes the San Jose area.

Despite the increase in deportations, Reno acknowledged that an estimated 5
million foreigners are living illegally in the United States, and their ranks
swell by 275,000 each year.

Last year, Congress passed a law carrying tougher penalties for illegal
immigration and strengthening the INS's enforcement hand.

Nearly two-thirds of the 50,000 criminal deportees expelled last year had
convictions for aggravated felonies which, in addition to homicide and rape,
includes lesser crimes such as credit-card fraud, assault, shoplifting anddrug
use. More than 40 percent of the criminal deportees had drug convictions.

Non-criminal expulsions surged 93 percent over 1995, in part because of a new
provision allowing fewer procedural hurdles.

The expedited removals procedure, under challenge in federal court, grants
immigration officials power to turn away would-be immigrants and asylum-seekers
who arrive at U.S. ports without valid travel documents.

The overall expulsion numbers, reflecting only cases in which the INS obtained
removal orders, don't include the nearly 77,000 immigrants who chose to leave
without formal deportation proceedings. Separately, the INS turned back 1.3
million others trying to enter without permission.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Ariana E. Cha contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Reno
[971031 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 23, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REPORT DETAILS AID TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS FAMILIES WITH KIDS BORN IN U.S.
RECEIVED $1 BILLION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 422 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


More than $1 billion in 1995 welfare payments and food stamps went to
illegal-immigrant families because some of their children are U.S. citizens,
according to a new government report.

Although a child born in the United States to an illegal immigrant automatically
becomes a citizen, "when such a child receives assistance, the aid also helps
support the child's family, raising concerns about the use of public assistance
by those illegally in the United States," said congressional auditors in
Wednesday's U.S. General Accounting Office report.

The Republican-controlled Congress requested the study as part of last year's
welfare overhaul, which restricted direct access to public benefits by illegal
immigrants but did not deny benefits to their citizen children.

"It's obvious that there's a huge loophole in immigration law," said Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, among supporters of legislation that would require children to
have at least one citizen or legal-resident parent to be born citizens.

While the Clinton administration "clearly supports all federal efforts to deter
illegal immigration," said Health and Human Services Department Inspector
General June Gibbs Brown in a letter commenting on the report, "our mission also
requires us to improve the health and economic self-sufficiency of all citizens
. . . including the citizen children of immigrant parents."

"It is important to note that citizen children are legally eligible for benefits
on the same basis as other citizens, even if they have an illegal parent," said
Brown.

Payments to citizen children of illegal immigrants accounted for about 3
percent, or $700 million, of all benefits paid in fiscal 1995 under the welfare
program known as Aid to Families With Dependent Children, said the GAO report.

Almost all AFDC recipients also receive Medicaid, which on average provides more
than $1,000 a child each year for health care expenses, the auditors said.

For food stamps, the GAO found about 2 percent, or $430 million worth, went to
the citizen children of illegal immigrants in fiscal 1995.

Nationally, 224,000 households headed by an illegal immigrant received the food
stamps and 153,000 households, many overlapping, got AFDC.

The immigrant families getting help were largely concentrated in California, New
York, Texas and Arizona. California accounted for $720 million of the benefits
paid. Ten percent of that state's AFDC and food stamp caseload is composed of
families headed by illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 31, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SEIZED TRUCKS FULL OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 88 words


The U.S. Border Patrol last weekend seized three semi-trucks loaded with a total
of 417 illegal immigrants north of El Centro, providing evidence that a strategy
to curb illegal immigration in the sector is working, Border Patrol officials
said Friday.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service official said the Border Patrol's
effectiveness at curbing illegal immigration has forced smugglers to resort to
"desperate measures," such as using the bigger trucks to smuggle more people and
moving operations into the desert.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 10, 1998 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS DISCOVERED IN TRAILERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: BRAWLEY


The U.S. Border Patrol is finding more illegal immigrants hiding among bread,
lettuce or other cargo in tractor-trailer trucks crossing into the country from
Mexico.

So far this year in Imperial County, border authorities have seized eight such
trucks, including two last weekend carrying more than 100 illegal entrants.

"We want to try to stop this before summer comes," agent Randy Clark told the
Imperial Valley Press. "I'm hoping we're going to discourage them soon because
they (the trailers) would be unbearable in the summer" for passengers.

The drivers of the two trucks -- John Doug Coeto, 55, and Mark Edward Phelps, 37
-- were arrested on suspicion of smuggling illegal immigrants.

Conditions in the trailers were not dangerous, but agents already have seen
instances in which illegal immigrants were packed so tightly without food, water
or toilets that they were banging on sides of the trailer asking to be released,
Clark said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 17, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRUCK AT BORDER HELD 35 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN IT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 93 words


U.S. Border Patrol agents found 35 illegal immigrants crammed in the back of a
truck Monday at the San Clemente Border Patrol Station on Interstate 5. The
Mexican immigrants told agents they had been in the truck for several hours
without food, water or bathroom facilities. The driver of the truck, a Mexican
citizen, had been arrested and was expected to be charged with smuggling,
officials said. Most of the illegal immigrants would be granted a voluntary
return to Mexico. Officials said those with a criminal history would likely be
detained.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 19, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEBATE TO BEGIN ON DEPORTATION SYSTEM PROGRAM WOULD TARGET JAILED ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1746 words

DATELINE: VENTURA


Illegal immigrants caught breaking the law in this coastal county get a double
dose of punishment: First, they're thrown behind bars. Then they're thrown out
of the country.

In sharp contrast, criminal immigrants in Santa Clara County -- as many as
17,400 each year -- are routinely released after serving their sentences. That
often holds true even for those arrested a second or third time.

While U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents have been patrolling
federal and state prisons for years, agents have largely neglected the place
most criminals spend their sentences: county jails.

In Santa Clara County, the reason is twofold: The INS has never pushed a
deportation program in the county jail. And county officials have been reluctant
to establish an aggressive policy on what has become a politically charged
issue.

Officials in Ventura and other Southern California counties say the problem is
easily fixed.

Under a program born in late 1996, two INS agents stationed at Ventura County
jails snare illegal immigrants by questioning them and running high-tech
fingerprint checks of all those who are foreign-born. Launched after an illegal
immigrant shot a police officer, the program has become a federal model.

Today, the Law and Justice Committee of the Santa Clara County Board of
Supervisors will debate a similar, although watered-down, version of the Ventura
program. The proposal has been attacked by civil rights advocates --who say the
program needs safeguards -- and by conservatives, who say the law won't catch
enough illegal immigrants.

During the past fiscal year, INS officials flagged 943 immigrants -- about 3
percent of those booked in Ventura County jails -- for deportation. And in other
Southern California counties, immigration agents visit jails daily.

In Northern California, communication between local and federal authorities who
must trade information to effectively detect illegal immigrants is sporadic at
best.

"We would gladly turn over cases for federal prosecution," Santa Clara County
Assistant District Attorney Thomas Fahrenholz said in a 1996 INS report. "But
local federal agencies (INS, Border Patrol and U.S. attorney) have not
demonstrated an ability to successfully prosecute available cases."

Immigration agents drop by Santa Clara County jails only when they are notified
that illegal immigrants are about to be released, said Bob Conroy, deputy
director of the Santa Clara County Department of Correction.

Because they're not actively seeking out illegal immigrants, jail officials
stumble across only a few dozen such people each year. And not all of those
flagged for deportation end up being forced to leave the country.

Under federal law, Conroy said, "we're not required to hold these people more
than 48 hours after they have served all local charges, so we don't. And if the
INS doesn't come to pick them up, we release them."

INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said that because of staffing shortages, agents
are able to visit jails in each Bay Area county only two to three times a week.
No one is stationed permanently at any jail in the 49 counties in the San
Francisco district, which stretches from Kern County to the Oregon border.

Up to a quarter here illegally

At any given time, as many as a quarter of inmates are here illegally, according
to a preliminary survey of prisoners conducted in 1995. Most are Mexican
nationals who have been booked for crimes ranging from driving with a suspended
license to drug trafficking.

According to a report by U.S. Attorney Michael Yamaguchi, jailing illegal
immigrants costs Santa Clara County $22.4 million a year. County supervisors
also are under pressure to relieve the over-crowded jails.

Under the Santa Clara County plan, only the most serious offenders -- detainees
previously convicted for aggravated felonies and in custody for any new charges
-- would be deported. Fahrenholz said that if this pilot program was successful
and the INS office received more resources, it would be expanded.

Like the Ventura County program, the proposed plan targets all non-citizens:
illegal immigrants as well as those legal permanent residents with "green
cards." Under federal law, legal permanent residents are deportable if they are
convicted of a crime of "moral turpitude," including domestic violence.

One reason the proposal has been so controversial in Santa Clara County is that
-- unlike in most California counties -- the board of supervisors, not the
sheriff's department, oversees the jail system, and the board is more sensitive
to political pressure.

Bay Area more sympathetic

Bay Area residents have always been more sympathetic to illegal immigrants than
Southern Californians are. Santa Clara was one of the few counties in which
Proposition 187, aimed at curtailing health and education benefits to illegal
immigrants, did not pass.

"I can't imagine why people anywhere would not want to deport criminals who are
here illegally," said Joe Devorick, 36, a sheriff's deputy in Ventura County.
"Public support here has been 100 percent."

But advocates for immigrants and even some law enforcement personnel argue that
a broad program that targets both legal and illegal immigrants breaks up
families.

"If in the deporting of a breadwinner, we put a family on welfare, is that an
effective human or public policy?" asked department of correction spokesman Rick
Kitson.

INS officials, however, said they've been welcomed with open arms by
lawenforcement in most parts of the state.

"In San Bernardino, I went one day to introduce myself and my agents, and the
next day I came back and we had an office with 'INS' painted on the door and
officers who greeted us with, 'Thank you for being here,' " said Kevin Jeffrey,
who supervises the INS Alien Criminal Apprehension Program in the seven-county
Los Angeles district.

Since illegal immigration became a hot-button issue in the early '90s, the INS
has argued that it would be impossible to chase down and deport all 2 million
illegal immigrants living in California. So, INS officials say, it's better to
use the agency's limited resources to first get rid of the undocumented
immigrants who pose a danger to society.

In the past few years, the INS has focused its resources along the United
States-Mexico border. It has not matched those resources in the interior.

For decades, INS agents in counties near the border would interview inmates when
they were about to be released. But the programs adopted in Ventura and other
Southern California counties go further by having officials question inmates
before their arraignments on criminal charges.

Ventura program to expand

The Ventura program has been so successful that President Clinton in December
signed legislation to expand it to 100 counties over the next four years, an
effort that is expected to cost $84 million.

With its high concentration of illegal immigrants, Santa Clara County would be a
shoo-in to be approved for the program, INS officials said. But county officials
say they're not sure whether the county would apply for federal funding.

Officials in the district attorney's office use words such as "frustrating" and
"disappointing" to describe federal efforts to purge the system of illegal
immigrants. They point out that INS agents are disproportionately allocated to
the north end of the bay. The agency has 81 enforcement agents in San Francisco
and Oakland and 11 in San Jose.

Here's how the proposed Santa Clara County program would work:

INS agents would visit the jails on a regular schedule. Jail officials would
provide them with a log of people who had been arrested since the last visit.
The agents would interview all people who identified themselves as foreign-born
and had previously been convicted of an aggravated felony, which includes
violent crimes such as murder and rape as well as credit-card fraud.

The agents would ask simple questions such as "How did you get into the United
States?" Most inmates, INS officials say, will tell the truth.

"They'll say, 'I walked across the border or I overstayed my visa.' They'll
throw their hands up and say, 'The charade is over. You got me,' " said Jose
Flores, a supervisor for San Diego's criminal immigrant program.

The inmates' answers during the interviews would be checked with a fingerprint
database that has almost 1.5 million records of previously deported immigrants.

Those who have committed minor crimes such as public drunkenness would be
immediately deported. Others might have their sentences reduced and then be
removed from the country. Serious offenders would serve their sentences before
being deported.

Immigrants who had been previously deported would be referred to the U.S.
attorney, who could get them sentenced to up to 20 years in federal prison.

All immigrants are entitled to a hearing before they are deported. As is the
case in Southern California, most criminal immigrants convicted of crimes would
not be allowed to "voluntarily deport." Instead, they would be formally
deported, which would mean they could be barred from entering the United States
forever.

Some fall through the cracks

But without seven-days-a-week, 24-hours-a-day staffing, some criminals fall
through the cracks, posting bond before INS agents arrive.

Steve Smiley, an agent stationed at the main jail in Ventura County, said that
when he comes in each morning, almost half of the people on his interview list
have been released during the night. The San Diego INS office is trying to solve
the problem with videoconferencing technology, which cuts down ontravel time and
lets the agency cover more hours with less manpower.

Santa Clara County Supervisor Pete McHugh, chairman of the committee that will
consider the proposal today, said he supports the plan. But other supervisors,
such as Blanca Alvarado, advocate a policy that targets only repeat violent
offenders: those aggravated felons arrested for a second aggravated felony.

In addition, civil rights groups caution that local officials eager to reduce
jail overcrowding and punish illegal immigration must also look at the human
side of deportation.

Said Sara Campos of the San Francisco-based Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights:
"These are people who are fathers and mothers, our neighbors, our taxpayers, our
community."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
A tale of two counties

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 22, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEPORTING SOME ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS WHO ARE LOCKED UP IS A TOUCHY ISSUE, BUT
PROPOSAL FOR THIS COUNTY DESERVES TO BE APPROVED OUT OF JAIL, OUT OF HERE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6C

LENGTH: 820 words


IT is reassuring to watch a big, powerful man move very, very gently. And that's
what 50 people who packed a conference room witnessed lastweek as burly county
Supervisor Pete McHugh guided a committee to agreement on an important but
ever-so-touchy proposal: To deport certain illegal immigrants from jail.

It's important because Santa Clara County spends $22 million annually to
incarcerate an estimated 17,500 illegal immigrants in overcrowded local jails.

It's touchy because these people -- up to a quarter of jail inmates -- are
mostly Mexican nationals. Santa Clara County has a huge Mexican-American
population in which legal and illegal residents mingle often within the same
families. More than a few of these are U.S. citizens who vote. And this is one
of only two California counties where jails are overseen by the elected board of
supervisors, who are not immune to political pressure.

There is another factor. Out of concerns about human rights, many non-Hispanic
county voters are more tolerant of illegal residents than California voters are
generally. Santa Clara was one of the few counties where Proposition 187, to
curtail health and education benefits to illegal residents, did not pass.

Certainly other local voters would argue that the last people whose rights we
should worry about are non-citizens who repeatedly break the law. In Southern
California this tougher mindset prevails. As Mercury News writer Ariana Cha ably
reported last week, the result has been programs like one in Ventura County,
where federal Immigration and Naturalization Service agents work at the county
jail, using interviews and fingerprints to ferret out the foreign-born, many of
whom are dispatched to deportation hearings, although some later turn out to be
legal residents.

The Ventura model could be challenged on constitutional grounds, including the
initial targeting of foreign-born prisoners, a category which includes
naturalized citizens, and the absence of any legal counsel for prisoners during
the jailhouse interviews. Technically these objections could apply to the
proposed program for Santa Clara County, but here they would be offset by
extensive safeguards.

The local proposal was drafted by Assistant County District Attorney Thomas
Fahrenholz and approved, then revised and approved again last week by the Public
Safety and Justice Committee, which includes D.A. George Kennedy, Chief of
Corrections Tim Ryan and Supervisors McHugh and Don Gage.

It is a six-month trial program, and narrowly focused, at least at the
beginning. Although one 1995 survey found 75 percent of county inmates
potentially deportable, the proposal targets only 7 percent of those. To be
turned over for deportation proceedings, a prisoner would have to have -- in
addition to the new charge that brings him to jail -- a previous conviction for
a serious felony.

On grounds that serious wrongdoing should be punished by more than deportation,
only those facing relatively light new charges, such as public drunkenness,
would be turned over to the INS immediately. Others might bargain to serve
reduced terms and then be deported. Those charged with serious felonies would be
tried and, if convicted, serve the usual sentences in state prisons, then be
deported.

The D.A. and the chief of corrections and even the county Social Services Agency
would have wide discretion over who was turned over to the INS. People whose
only crime was being in the country illegally would not be, nor would
undocumented immigrants charged with traffic infractions or misdemeanors.

The limits are set not only by philosophy but also by practicality; we are part
of a four-county area which the INS presently covers with only two agents, far
too few to enable the proposed plan to work. County officials expect five more
federal agents once the program is launched. Our efforts to confirm that with
the IRS were unsuccessful.

No one is saying so publicly, but the county clearly is trying to create a
viable working relationship with the INS, which deservedly has felt unwanted
here in the past; this newspaper and many others have criticized the immigration
agency for its heavy-handed workplace raids.

But having INS agents make regular jail visits is a far more fitting way to
identify who gets kicked out of the country, and we encourage the feds to
partner with the county in the new effort.

That can't happen, of course, unless the county Board of Supervisors approves
the proposal; they're scheduled to vote March 10. The chances lookgood. McHugh
and Ryan personally have promised to meet with critics who complain of civil
liberties violations. "If there are abuses, we'll take whatever steps are
necessary to correct them," says McHugh. Blanca Alvarado, who represents more
Latinos than any other supervisor, says those assurances are good enough for
her. They're good enough for us, as well.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 20, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON SHOULD DROP HIS FIGHT FOR 187

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 367 words


IT would be nice to believe a stake has been driven into the heart of
Proposition 187, the anti-illegal-immigrant initiative pushed by Gov. Pete
Wilson and passed in November 1994.

Instead, it has only been debilitated and delayed before going on to the next
stage in its long-shot legal quest for validation.

The federal judge who first suspended the implementation of 187, then found
major parts of it unconstitutional, has issued a final ruling that the
proposition impermissibly attempts to usurp federal immigration policy.

The ruling was a foregone conclusion, given the earlier decisions issued by
Judge Mariana Pfaelzer. Now Wilson plans to carry his case to the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. He should drop it.

Proposition 187 attempted to deny education, welfare and non-emergency health
care to illegal immigrants. From its inception, it was a mixture of the illegal,
the implausible and the mean.

Keeping illegal immigrant children out of school flatly conflicted with a
previous Supreme Court decision that they had a right to be there. Expecting
school and health officials to discover and turn in illegal immigrants
conflicted with common sense.

In the lean economic years of the early 1990s, it was tempting to scapegoat
illegal immigrants as one source of the state's budget troubles. That was not
only shameful, it was mistaken. The law has not taken effect, yet today
California's economy, and its state budget, are robust.

In the meantime, the federal government has addressed illegal immigration in
other, more acceptable, ways. A comprehensive immigration law added 1,000 Border
Patrol agents a year and set up better procedures for checking eligibility for
employment. Federal welfare reform cracked down on welfare benefits for illegal
immigrants, and even reduced them for some legal immigrants.

In that sense, proponents of 187 have won a partial victory, as some of them
recognize. The proposition moved illegal immigration higher on the congressional
agenda, and its passage in California was a signal heeded in Washington.

The passage in Washington of bills that were more compassionate and better
focused should be a signal heeded by Wilson.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial
The opinion of the Mercury News
Prop. 187

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 31, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AGENTS SEIZE 3 LOADS OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 96 words


A total of 171 illegal immigrants riding in three vehicles were caught Monday by
the U.S. Border Patrol at the San Clemente checkpoint north of San Diego and in
Otay Mesa. At the checkpoint, agents found 86 undocumented immigrants in the
back of a commercial truck about 10:20 a.m.

Ten minutes later, agents stopped a second commercial truck that was carrying 45
illegal immigrants. The drivers of both trucks, U.S. citizens from Long Beach,
were arrested, authorities said. Earlier in the day, 40 illegal immigrants were
found in a van that tried to flee agents.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    May 1, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION BILLBOARD PLANNED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 108 words


Activists say they plan to put up a billboard at a busy border crossing Tuesday,
urging drivers to join an anti-immigrant movement. The billboard at the
California-Arizona state line on Interstate 10 is expected to look like an
official highway sign, with green background and white lettering. "Welcome To
California. The Illegal Immigrant State. Don't Let This Happen To Your State.
Call Toll Free (877) NO ILLEGALS." The sign is sponsored by the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform, headed by Barbara Coe, one of the authors of
Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative designed to bar illegal immigrants from
receiving social services.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 5, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION SPARKS L.A. RALLY ACROSS THE STREET: ACTIVISTS COUNTER
PROTEST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Armed with American flags and placards urging citizens to "Protect Our Border,"
hundreds of protesters celebrated their nation's birth Saturday by denouncing
illegal immigration and trading barbs with immigration rights activists as
police in riot gear stood watch.

The face-off followed weeks of heated rhetoric about an anti-illegal immigration
billboard that had been displayed at the California border with the message,
"Welcome to California; The Illegal Immigration State; Don't Let this Happen to
Your State." With a replica of the sign waving in thebackground, the protesters
chanted loudly but remained peaceful during the midday rally.

"We're tired of paying for illegals. If that's racist, then I'm happy to be
called racist. I don't think I am," said Bill Hughes, a 67-year-old retiree who
marched with about 250 anti-illegal immigration activists in front of the
federal building in Westwood.

"I'm tired of the crowded freeways, the crowded schools and paying taxes for
illegals to go through all kinds of care."

Across the street, a smaller contingent of less than 100 immigrant rights
activists fired back retorts via a megaphone and accused the anti-illegal
immigration protesters of racism.

"We believe that racism is wrong because we are on this Earth together," said
Danica Woodward, a 16-year-old activist with a youth organization who carried a
sign that said "Death to the Fascists; Power to the Workers."

"That's just trying to make racism sound better," she said of the coalition's
insistence that they oppose only illegal immigration and are not racist.

Hughes and other donors said they helped pay for the $4,000 billboard placed
near Blythe by the California Coalition for Immigration Reform. The coalition,
which organized Saturday's event, opposes illegal immigration and supports curbs
on legal immigration.

While some protesters agreed with the coalition's platform, others -- like
Hughes -- had more extreme views or were there to speak out on other issues like
China Ocean Shipping Co.'s desire to use the Long Beach Naval Station and
Shipyard as a massive container terminal.

Tom Louie, with La Resistencia, one of three groups that organized the
pro-immigrant rally, said he was pleased the opposing groups avoided the kind of
violence that took place two years ago on the Fourth of July when hot weather
and disagreements over Proposition 187 left seven people injured.

Numerous police, including several in riot gear on horses, stood near the
anti-illegal immigration protesters and police cars lined busy Wilshire
Boulevard during the demonstrations. No arrests were made during the protests,
police officer Don Cox said.

Louie said that although several organizations attended his rally, its main
purpose was to denounce brutality against immigrants. La Resistencia issued a
list of demands that included a plea to prosecutors to file charges against two
former Riverside County sheriff's deputies who were videotaped clubbing illegal
immigrants. Federal prosecutors last month declined to file charges in the civil
rights case, saying there wasn't enough evidence.

"The billboard is not a concern as much as brutality," Louie said.

The California Coalition of Hispanic Organizations, headed by Mario Obledo, had
threatened to destroy the billboard at Blythe.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Danica Woodward holds a sign during an immigrant rights rally in Los Angeles on
Saturday.
[980705 CA 7B]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 18, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

30 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS KILLED BY HEAT IN TEXAS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 77 words


Federal officials said Friday 30 illegal immigrants died of exhaustion and
dehydration in the past month after crossing the Rio Grande into Texas on foot
and falling prey to the oppressive heat. "The people who come across seek out
isolated areas and they find just a lot of space, a lot of heat and a lot of
danger," said Tomas Zuniga of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Temperatures have routinely hit 110 degrees along the Texas-Mexico border.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: NATIONAL NEWS IN BRIEF

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 19, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEAT-WAVE DEATHS INCLUDE IMMIGRANTS OFFICIALS SEND VIDEOS WARNING BORDER
CROSSERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: ADDISON, Texas


Temperatures again climbed into the triple digits and heat has been blamed for
at least 108 deaths since May, with 79 in Texas. Of those, 43 were people from
Mexico trying to cross open desert and range land to enter the United States
illegally, officials said.

The Border Patrol warned Mexicans hoping to immigrate illegally that the heat
wave makes such border crossings a deadly risk. The agency sent videos to
Mexican TV stations with footage of people who died in the heat while trying to
cross the border, along with a warning: "Mantente Fuera, Mantente Vivo" -- "Keep
Out, Keep Alive."

"The heat started earlier this year. When I arrived the 27th of April, it was
108 degrees," said Carlton Jones, press officer for the Border Patrol's Del Rio
sector, which had 19 of the illegal-immigrant deaths. "Since then we've been
trying to find out if we've had a dozen days it's been below 100 for a high."

Del Rio agents rescued about 30 illegal Mexican immigrants from hot railroad
freight cars last week, including 11 found near El Paso locked into one rail car
without food or water, Jones said Saturday.

"When we got them out, they were still breathing OK, but the train was going to
be traveling two more days in that heat," he said.

If trains get past border points carrying illegal immigrants, Jones said,
"They're going to be opening these things up and finding bodies like crazy."

In addition to the Texas deaths, at least 20 people have died of heat-related
causes in Louisiana, six in Oklahoma and one each in California, Arizona and
Missouri since May.

Highs on Saturday topped 100 in northern Texas for the 13th straight day. Along
the border, it was 106 in Del Rio and 101 in McAllen by early afternoon. There
is little relief in sight, as temperatures are likely to hit 100 or more through
at least Wednesday.

Temperatures elsewhere climbed to 105 in Chadron, Neb.; 104 in McAlester, Okla.;
109 in Palmdale; and 110 in Phoenix. In Lake Havasu City in western Arizona, it
was 99 degrees by 9 a.m.

"We spend as much time in the lake as we can," said Linda Drouillard, a clerk at
Havasu Springs Resort and a longtime city resident. "The heat is something that
you have to get use to. The newcomers are a little intimidated by it. The
tourists expect it."

Colorado, however, got a reminder of cooler times: Hospitals from Denver to
Pueblo reported a surge in births that statisticians tracked to a blizzard nine
months ago that kept people at home with snow piled 5 feet deep in the streets.

"We thought it was just our marketing, but we turned back the clock and found it
coincided with the blizzard," said Sara Spaulding of Swedish Medical Center in
Denver, where births this month are up 18 percent.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 23, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLICE FIND SMUGGLED IMMIGRANTS IN HOME

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 96 words


For the second time in a week, illegal immigrants were discovered crammed into a
home in Pomona, police said Sunday. The 28 immigrants said they had been
smuggled into the United States several days ago, Lt. Ron McDonald said. They
were found sitting on the floors of the residence, which contained little more
than some sofas and a television set. Each immigrant paid $800 to smugglers, he
said. Officers went to the two-bedroom home Saturday night after receiving an
anonymous tip that about a dozen people were being held at an East Lexington
Avenue residence.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 24, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH WORKFORCE SPARKS NEW DEBATE GAO CRITICIZES THE COMMERCE DEPT. FINDINGS
OF SHORTAGE

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1055 words


The debate over easing immigration quotas on foreign high-tech workers took on
new urgency this week with a General Accounting Office study criticizing earlier
reports of a workforce shortage just as Congress prepares to consider
legislative solutions.

At the same time, the increasingly controversial issue has taken on sharply
political overtones, with leading Republicans pressing the Clinton
administration to take a stand that they say would help high-tech companies.

After reviewing a September 1997 Commerce Department report on the shortage of
information technology workers, the GAO concluded that the study "has serious
analytical and methodological weaknesses that undermine the credibility of its
conclusion that a shortage of IT workers exists." However, the GAO cautioned,
that did not necessarily mean that there is no such shortage.

Industry leaders in Silicon Valley are trying to present the need for more
foreign workers' visas as a matter of American competitiveness, and to avoid
getting drawn into a heated political controversy over immigration and labor.
They say they cannot find enough workers from the U.S. labor force and haveasked
for an increase in H-1B visas, which allow skilled foreigners ranging from
nurses to engineers to work in the U.S. for up to six years. High-tech companies
are particularly interested in Ph.D. graduates in computer science and
electrical engineering from U.S. universities, more than half of whom are from
other countries. Without access to such specialized talent, U.S. industry stands
to lose its competitive edge in a fast-changing market, they say.

Critics argue, however, that industry has exaggerated its claims of a labor
shortage. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. says
companies just want to hire cheap foreign labor to undercut American workers,
particularly older workers with higher salary demands.

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., has introduced legislation that would raise the
ceiling on H-1B visas from 65,000 a year to about 90,000 a year, as well as
authorize $50 million in government funds for math, engineering and computer
science scholarships for low-income U.S. students. This year, the annual
allocation for H-1B visas is expected to run out as early as May. Last year, the
entire quota ran out in early September, one month short of the end of the
fiscal year.

On Monday, Abraham dismissed the GAO study as an "inside-the-beltway squabble
over how to measure shortages that ignores the real marketplace." Citing an
unemployment rate among the nation's electrical engineers of 0.4 percent, the
senator called the problem "painfully obvious."

The Commerce Department has estimated that industry growth will lead to 1.3
million new jobs in information technology within the next decade. In its
report, the department noted that only 24,553 U.S. students earned bachelor's
degrees in computer and information sciences in 1994, a decline of more than 40
percent from 1986.

The GAO did not quibble with the Commerce projection of new demand but said the
department failed to "consider other likely sources of workers, such as college
graduates with degrees in other areas."

"They really didn't do a good job in quantifying the available supply," said
Sigurd R. Nilsen, assistant director at the GAO and one of the study's principal
authors.

Commerce Department officials say the GAO study mischaracterized their report.

"Our report doesn't purport to tally a shortfall," said Gary R. Bachula, acting
undersecretary of commerce for technology. "Our report says there's a potential
for a shortfall."

Republicans are stepping up public pressure on the Clinton Administration to
join their legislative efforts on behalf of the high-tech industry. This week,
Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina, is asking Vice President Al Gore to meet and help
hammer out a consensus measure on the visa issue that would have bipartisan
support. And Jack Kemp, a co-director of Empower America, sent the White House a
letter last week urging President Clinton to "overrule . . . protectionist
sentiments" and support Abraham's bill.

The White House has said it is studying the issue but has no timetable for
making a decision. If the administration fails to come through for industry,
Republicans believe it will help them pry loose the grip the Clinton-Gore team
seems to have on the allegiance of Silicon Valley technocrats, GOP staffers say.

The GAO study also criticized a 1997 survey by the Information Technology
Association of America that reported 190,000 unfilled IT jobs in 1996. With only
a 14 percent response rate in its random survey, ITAA did not have enough basis
"for any generations about the population being surveyed," the GAO study stated.
A later ITAA survey, reporting 346,000 unfilled IT positions, had a response
rate of 36 percent. For any sound generalizations, the response rate should be
at least 75 percent, the GAO said.

In addition, rising salaries in the high-tech field, often cited as evidence of
a labor shortage, were not significantly different than rises in salaries in
other professional fields, Nilsen said.

The GAO study came at the request of Democratic congressmen who wanted a
critique of the Commerce Department study, but not an independent study on the
issue itself, Nilsen said.

"It is a very tight market," Nilsen said. "But whether there's a shortage we
don't know yet. There's insufficient evidence to draw conclusions."

There is some data that shows the market may be responding to the demandfor more
IT workers, says one expert.

An annual survey of enrollment figures in computer science and computer
engineering at U.S. universities shows that in 1996, there were 14,000 students
seeking training in those fields, up from 10,000 the previous year, said Michael
Rappa, a consultant to government on IT issues who taught at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology for nine years. And there are early indications that
that pace of growth is continuing, he said.

But how soon those new enrollments will show up in the labor force must also be
considered carefully, Rappa said.

"The GAO has raised some very important questions," Rappa said. "There's a need
for more research so we don't suffer a prolonged shortage or cause an
unnecessary oversupply."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 27, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD RAISE TECH WORKERS' VISA CAP

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2C

LENGTH: 330 words


A Senate bill introduced Thursday proposes temporarily increasing the visas for
skilled foreign workers to meet current job demands in high-tech industry.

The legislation sponsored by Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., and Dianne Feinstein,
D-Calif., raises the immigration quota for H-1B visas from its current level of
65,000 to 90,000 through the year 2000. But by 2001, the level would return to
65,000.

"The legislation that Senator Kennedy and I are introducing today is a temporary
solution to what is hopefully a short-term problem," Feinstein said Thursday in
a prepared statement.

In addition, the bill creates a $100 million fund for loans to U.S. workers to
obtain training in high-tech fields. Limited to no more than $10,000 per person,
the loans are designed to help workers who need only a few more courses to
prepare themselves for jobs in information technology.

The Kennedy-Feinstein bill also places new restrictions on the H-1B visa
category, requiring companies to guarantee that they have tried to recruit U.S.
workers first and also that they will not lay off U.S. workers in the job
categories for which they are hiring foreigners. The H-1B visa's duration, now a
maximum of six years, will be reduced to three years, restricting the
opportunity for immigrants recruited to work in high tech to remain in the
United States as permanent residents or U.S. citizens.

The Kennedy-Feinstein bill, which has the support of organized labor and the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, offers an alternative to
competing legislation, supported by industry, that is sponsored by Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich. The Abraham bill raises the visa cap by roughly the same amount
-- but on a permanent basis -- and allows additional borrowing of up to 25,000
unused visas from other categories. In addition, the Abraham bill retains the
current six-year period on H-1B visas and removes the 25,000 limit for workers
from any single country.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
Feinstein
[980327 BU 2C 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 13, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW GRAPES OF WRATH IMMIGRATION ISSUES ARE POISED TO WORSEN

BYLINE: DAN WALTERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 490 words


FOR nearly three years, federal Judge Mariana Pfaelzer has been sitting on
Proposition 187, the California ballot measure that would deny public benefits
to undocumented immigrants.

Pfaelzer struck down portions of the measure but has refused to issue a final
ruling that would then allow its validity to be tested in appellate courts.

It's an astonishing exercise in judicial arrogance. But it does not alter the
underlying reality: immigrants, legal and otherwise, are pouring into California
and are the single most important factor in determining what the state becomes
in the 21st century. Latinos are expected to become the state's largest ethnic
group by 2020.

Nor does Judge Pfaelzer's studied indecision alter the fact that the politics of
immigration will continue to seethe, tinged with racial conflict and ideological
confusion and creating a perilous minefield for those who seek office.

One example of that uncertainty: After years of ducking the immigration debate
-- despite its clear connection to environmental issues -- the Sierra Club will
finally conduct a straw vote of its membership on the subject. Another: A ballot
measure that would effectively end bilingual education is headed for the 1998
ballot and Republican politicians are unsure whether to embrace it, as most GOP
voters prefer, or shun it to avoid offending Latino voters.

If politicians see immigration as a headache, however, it is not one that they
can ignore simply because of its real-world impact.

As the federal government -- under huge pressure from Californians -- tightens
down on border controls in the San Diego area, for example, it is pushing the
flow of immigration east into the harsh Imperial Valley, and that is increasing
the physical danger to those who yearn to come to California.

And, according to a new book that delves into the impact of immigration, the
tighter controls may be having precisely the opposite of the intended effect.

Mexicans who once would seasonally commute to work in California's fields are
now being encouraged, in effect, to become permanent California residents
because of increasing difficulty, cost and danger of making repeated border
crossings.

That, coupled with harsh economic conditions in Mexico and a trend among
California farmers to switch to higher-value, more labor-intensive fruits and
vegetable crops, has meant a transformation of many small California farm towns
into pockets of intense poverty, the authors of "Poverty AmidProsperity"
conclude.

"Mexico today is like Mississippi in the 1950s," says University of California,
Davis, economist Philip Martin, one of the book's authors. "It's on the verge of
a great migration."

It would be a mistake to assume that the rising level of political conflict over
immigration is merely the handiwork of some wedge issue politicians. Judge
Pfaelzer may be sitting on Proposition 187 but other clashes are inevitable.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Dan Walters writes for the Sacramento Bee.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 13, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT OKS LOSS OF CARE FOR SOME IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The state Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a challenge to Gov. Pete Wilson's
cutoff of prenatal care for 70,000 illegal immigrants, ordered last year in
emergency regulations without public hearings.

An immigrants' rights lawyer said, however, that the issue was being revived in
suits challenging the state's permanent regulations, which are scheduled to take
effect in December and January.

The emergency regulations were upheld in August by a state appeals court, which
said the state was entitled to act quickly in response to an August 1996 federal
law requiring states to abolish state-funded benefit programs for illegal
immigrants.

None of the Supreme Court justices voted to review the case (Doe vs. Belshe,
S064863).

California pays for prenatal care for all needy women in the Medi-Cal program.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 9, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT WORKERS HAVE ROLE IN ECONOMY BUT CALIFORNIANS CONTINUE DEBATING
WHETHER THEY HELP OR HURT US MORE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 625 words


I AGREE with Scott Calais (Letters, Aug. 2) about Silicon Valley's "shortage of
qualified CEOs . . . who can make their company profitable without taking money
out of the pockets of the people who design, build, ship and support their
products."

He points out correctly that many high-tech companies lower their salary
expenses by fostering the immigration of large numbers of engineers and
scientists to increase the supply of such workers, and hence lower the price
they must pay to hire them.

While employers save a bundle when they hire immigrants, immigration has its
social costs, such as the need to provide schools and social services to
immigrants and their families, and these are paid for by the taxpayers. A
comprehensive study of this issue was released recently by the National Academy
of Sciences which assessed the economic costs and benefits of immigration. This
report stated that the average California family headed by an American native is
paying $1,178 per year in taxes just to support social programs and other costs
of immigration.

Thus immigration is, in effect, a taxpayer subsidy to employers: employers get
to pay lower wages, while we must pay higher taxes to cover the social costs.

It would be more fair if those who benefited from immigration also paid its
costs. Thus, I would like to see enacted a tax rebate of $1,178 per family to
refund the money that the NAS report says we are paying for immigrant social
services, and have this money come instead from a new tax on employers who hire
large numbers of immigrants.

I would name this the "T.J. tax" after T.J. Rodgers of Cypress Semiconductor,
who has been one of the loudest proponents of massive immigration as a way to
keep his costs down and profits up.

American employers have had it far too easy being able to pick their workers
from around the globe while reneging on their social responsibilities to their
homeland and its citizens. It's time to stop this rip-off.

-- Mark Townsend
San Jose
A "shortage" of skilled workers may be a problem for some industries, but it is
not a problem for America. We Americans want a tight labor market so that we can
maintain and advance our standard of living in a secure job market. We want a
single paycheck to do what it did in the 1960s: finance a family. We want to
know that there will be jobs waiting for our children when they graduate from
college.

But whether the market is tight or loose, without immigration it would be that
much tighter, and it would pull Americans into skilled fields who are not now in
those fields. Those on the bottom rungs of the job ladder get pulled up by
employers who cannot find an easy immigrant alternative.

I would like to believe that our country is run for the benefit of our people,
not the various companies searching for cheap labor.

-- Perry Lorenz
Sunnyvale
IN RESPONSE to Ms. Ringler's "'Who will buy this stuff"' (Letters, Aug. 5), I
would like to make a few comments. A recent issue of "'EE Times"' indicated
that, of 680,000 electrical engineers (immigrant engineers and scientists
included) in the United States, only 0.7 percent are unemployed.

Here in Silicon Valley, fierce competition among expanding high-tech companies
has created a demand for highly skilled workers, especially in the R&D area,
that simply outstripped the supply.

Already, 40 percent of electrical engineering Ph.D.s awarded annually in the
U.S. are to foreign students. A majority of them do become U.S. citizens and
contribute to our economy. Without these Americans-to-be, I don't see how
Silicon Valley can sustain its vitality and the United States can continue its
technical superiority over the rest of the world.
-- Tim Teng
Fremont

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: RANDY MACK BISHOP -- PEN TIP
[Workers on a globe]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RAISING ROOF ON VISAS HEARINGS SET ON HIGHER TECH CAP FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 994 words


A controversial proposal to solve the high-tech worker shortage will get its
first full public airing at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Wednesday, as
industry leaders press Congress to eliminate a cap on visas for skilled foreign
workers.

Clinton administration officials, meanwhile, indicated Monday they are
rethinking an earlier position, stated unequivocally by Commerce Secretary
William Daley in January, that they will not support an increase in the visa
limits.

"This is a major fight," said Harris Miller, president of Information Technology
Association of America, which has targeted eliminating the visa cap as its top
priority this year. "Ultimately, this battle will be fought in the halls of
Congress."

The H-1B visa allows companies to bring in as many as 65,000 skilled foreign
workers each year for jobs in fields where there is a shortage of American
workers. Last year, for the first time, the visa limit was reached by early
September, one month before the end of the federal fiscal year. That sent
high-tech companies scrambling to reorganize projects put on hold when expected
visas did not come through.

Already, about 30,000 H-1B visas -- for all industries, not just high tech --
have been issued during the first quarter of the current federal fiscal year,
which runs from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30. That has prompted expectations that the
65,000 visa cap will be reached as early as May or June this year.

"This is a desperate situation," said Brian Raymond, manager of domestic policy
for the American Electronics Association. "If there were American workers, we'd
hire them. We need workers period."

T.J. Rodgers, chief executive of Cypress Semiconductor Corp., who will testify
at the Senate hearing, said he had heard some discussion within the
administration of forcing companies to accept restrictions over layoffs in
exchange for easing the visa cap.

But "there's no way we're going to trade immigration for the camel's nose in the
tent of our industry," Rodgers said. "The troops in Silicon Valley are not going
to be happy if they stick it to us. I find the immigration debate the most
political and the least data-driven."

In January, the Department of Commerce released new estimates that the U.S.
economy will generate more than 100,000 new high-tech jobs each year for the
next decade at the same time that U.S. universities expect to turn out only
24,000 graduates in information-technology fields annually. There are currently
346,000 vacancies in the IT field, according to a recent study by the
information technology association.

While industry leaders are trying to couch the debate in terms of national
competitiveness, opponents say the primary issue is jobs for American workers.

"This is an important issue," said Tom Rankin, president of the California
AFL-CIO. "It raises the question: Where is this country going? Are we making
this a Third World country by bringing in cheap foreign labor?"

In addition to opposition from organized labor, representatives from the
Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. will speak Wednesday
against any relaxation of cap.

"There are other ways of solving this whole issue," says Shankar Lakhavani,
chairman of the workforce committee for the IEEE. "One is training."

Lakhavani, an electrical engineer from Pakistan who is now an American citizen,
added: "There are many immigrants like me who are American citizens, and they
would like a crack at these jobs."

Norman Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California-Davis, said flatly: "There is no labor shortage."

Matloff found a 15 percent to 20 percent wage gap between foreign-born high-tech
professionals and their American-born counterparts in a study he prepared based
on 1990 census figures. "A majority of H-1B workers are hired by employers who
are looking for cheap labor," Matloff said.

High-tech employers roundly reject that argument, pointing out that foreign
nationals are responsible for many innovations at Silicon Valley companies,
which, in turn, have created thousands of American jobs.

"We are not doing this to save money, but to stay ahead in innovation," said
Piper Cole, director of global public policy for Sun Microsystems Inc.,which
will have a representative speaking at Wednesday's hearing. "The people we want
are highly sought-after. If we don't get relief on this issue, we could lose the
U.S. position in technology."

A memo prepared for the Domestic Policy Council at the White House lists several
options for dealing with industry's request, including increasing the visa cap
to 80,000 to 100,000, with priority for high-tech workers. But a White House
official, speaking on condition of anonymity, stressed that no decisions have
been made on what has clearly become a tricky issue for the administration.

"We're trying to focus on the broad problem of ensuring that the high-tech
industry has workers with the skills they need," said the official.
"Principally, that means training American workers. But in that context we're
reviewing other proposals out there and considering whether it makes sense to
refine our immigration policy with respect to foreign workers and the H-1B
category."

Industry leaders say they remain hopeful they will be able to persuade Congress
to ease the limits substantially, if not eliminate them altogether. Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Michigan, who will preside over the Senate hearing Wednesday, is
currently drafting a bill to raise the limits, although he has not settled on a
precise figure, according to Stephen Hessler, Abraham's deputy press secretary.

"Our general sense is that there is substantial pressure in the marketplace, and
the administration is aware of it," said L. Scott Perry, vice president of
advanced platform services for AT&T and chairman of ITAA. "Having this arbitrary
limit on highly skilled workers is counterproductive for the American economy."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
The U.S. economy will generate an estimated more than 100,000 new high-tech jobs
each year for the next decade.
[980224 BU 1C 1]
PHOTO:
Sen. Spencer Abraham, of Michigan, will preside over the hearing
[980224 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 9, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SHUTS VISA DOOR ON TECH WORKERS FULL QUOTA: MONDAY LAST DAY TO APPLY

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 611 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. companies, led by the high-tech industry, have used up the entire fiscal
year's worth of visas for foreign workers in eight months.

Federal officials Friday said they would accept no more applications for
temporary visas for high-skilled workers -- an important part of the Silicon
Valley workforce -- as Congress prepares to discuss next week whether to boost
the number of such immigrants allowed into the country each year.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the 65,000 visas for specialized
jobs -- known as H1-Bs -- would be used up by month's end and set a Monday
deadline for applications for the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
Barring any urgent action from Congress, the application process won't resume
until October.

The Senate on Monday plans to debate legislation that would add 30,000 slots,
lifting the cap to 95,000 for the current fiscal year and the nextfive. That
bill has wide backing in Silicon Valley -- where companies import thousands of
engineers and other high-tech professionals for jobs they say are increasingly
difficult to fill with qualified Americans. But in the House, Republicans have
offered competing legislation that would increase the number of visas while
imposing new restrictions on employers trying to recruit foreign workers.

Both Congress and the high-tech industry appear to be on a collision course with
the White House, despite new figures showing record high employment in the
United States. The Clinton administration has tried to tie education and
training programs for American students and workers to the legislation to
curtail the need for the high-skilled immigrants. So far, neither the House nor
the Senate legislation has satisfied the administration.

For the last several months, high-tech industry executives have conducted an
intense lobbying effort to lift the annual cap of 65,000 H1-Bs, a visa category
that permits companies -- which can prove they need certain skills Americans
cannot provide -- to bring workers here for six years. In addition to high-tech
professionals, many health care workers come to the United States under the H1-B
category.

Last fiscal year was the first time since the program was enacted that the H1-B
cap was reached. As of this week, the INS had approved 62,336 H1-B visa
applications.

"Finding an adequate supply of qualified workers is the No. 1 issue for American
companies today," American Business for Legal Immigration, a Washington lobbying
group, said in a news release Friday. "Employers must have the ability to hire
skilled foreign workers to help fill the skills shortage gap."

Few in Congress disagree that the number of visas must be increased; the
question is mainly how and by how much.

The Senate Judiciary Committee last month approved a bill by Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich., that would create a new immigration category for health care
professionals and provide 85,000 H1-Bs, mainly for the computer industry,
through fiscal 2003. It prohibits use of the visas to replace American workers,
punishing willful violators with a $25,000 fine and a two-year ban from
participation in all employment-based immigration programs. It also provides for
20,000 college scholarships for science and math.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, who heads the House subcommittee on immigration, has
introduced a separate bill that would last only three years but boosts the cap
to 115,000 by 2000. Smith's bill would require proof that companies have
recruited U.S. workers and would allow the Department of Labor to initiate
investigations of employers for misusing the program, rather than relying on
complaints.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 12, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE APPEAL IN PRENATAL CARE CASE REJECTED

BYLINE: BOB EGELKO, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A state appeal to end prenatal care for illegal immigrants was rejected by the
state Supreme Court, an action that could thwart the long-stalled cutoff for the
rest of Gov. Pete Wilson's term.

The court unanimously and without comment denied review Wednesday to the state
Department of Health Services, which wanted to immediately overturn a Los
Angeles judge's order requiring the benefits to continue.

The department is also appealing the judge's order in a Los Angeles appellate
court and is scheduled for trial in November in a suit by lawyers for immigrant
mothers. But it is unclear whether the state would have time to terminate
benefits before Wilson left office next January if it won.

"We question whether it's a wise use of judicial resources to decide the issue
when there's going to be a new governor" who can take a fresh look at it, Lucy
Quacinella, a lawyer with the Western Center on Law and Poverty, said Thursday.

Wilson spokesman Ron Low said the governor would "continue to fight to comply
with the federal welfare reform law and also work to implement the will of an
overwhelming majority of Californians."

California pays for prenatal care for all needy women in the Medi-Cal program,
and has covered illegal immigrants with state funds since 1988. The state says
the cost of prenatal care for 70,000 illegal immigrants was $83.7 million in
1996-97.

Wilson ordered a cutoff after a new federal law, in effect since August 1996,
required states to terminate current benefits to illegal immigrants. He has
vetoed legislative attempts to restore the aid.

The governor contends prenatal care is a magnet for illegal immigrants and
drains tax dollars. Immigrant-rights advocates contend immigrants are drawn by
jobs, not prenatal care. They also say medical experts agree that prenatal care
saves the state money by preventing birth defects and illnesses in newborn
children, who are U.S. citizens.

The cutoff was challenged by lawsuits that disputed the state's claim of an
emergency and contended the health of U.S.-born citizen children would be
endangered. Though most of the suits were dismissed, they have allowed the
benefits to continue.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 20, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO LEADER SAYS HE'LL PAINT OVER ANTI-IMMIGRANT BILLBOARD

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


A Latino leader said Friday that he plans to deface a billboard proclaiming
California the "Illegal Immigrant State," and asked the governor to call out the
National Guard to keep the peace.

"I have received numerous calls from both proponents and opponents warning me of
possible violence," Mario Obledo wrote in a letter to Gov. Pete Wilson. "I
request you mobilize the state National Guard or place it on 'standby alert
status' to protect the participants."

Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh said the governor had asked state officials to make
sure the sign conforms to state laws.

Obledo, president of the California Coalition of Hispanic Organizations and
secretary of Health and Welfare under former Gov. Jerry Brown, said he planned
to deface the billboard with paint on June 27. He said he decided not to burn
down the billboard, because a natural gas plant is nearby.

"I think it's racist; it creates divisiveness, fear and distrust among
Californians," Obledo said.

The billboard, located near the town of Blythe in Southern California and
visible from Interstate 10, reads: "Welcome to California. The Illegal Immigrant
State. Don't Let This Happen To Your State."

"With regard to the potential for confrontation . . . we will ensure that the
California Highway Patrol has adequate manpower to ensure that law, order and
public safety are maintained," Walsh said.

Obledo he said he felt it was necessary to act against the sign, despite the
likelihood that he would be arrested.

Obledo defended the request that Wilson call out the National Guard, saying he
had received numerous threats from "the right-wing lunatic fringe."

Asked whether he had considered simply erecting a second sign denouncing the
first, Obledo said it was a "real possibility."

The Orange County-based California Coalition for Immigration Reform paid for the
sign.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 11, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLICY ON DEPORTATIONS REVIEWED CENTRAL AMERICAN IMMIGRANTS WILL GET REPRIEVE
FROM 1996 LAW

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 442 words


Responding to pleas from foreign capitals and immigrant communities from San
Jose to Miami, the Clinton administration Thursday reversed itself and moved to
avert the deportation from the United States of hundreds of thousands of
longtime residents originally from Central America.

Attorney General Janet Reno disclosed that officials are taking several steps --
including proposing new legislation -- aimed at alleviating the threat of mass
deportations stemming from several provisions of last year's immigration
overhaul.

While President Clinton's plan is likely to face stiff opposition in Congress,
Reno said she is prepared to impose administrative remedies -- not subject to
congressional approval -- to guarantee that the immigrants can remain in the
United States.

"We want to ensure that the 1996 immigration law will not have an unduly harsh
effect on those individuals who have made vital contributions to their local
communities here in the United States, while putting down deep roots in our
nation and abiding by our laws," Reno said.

In essence, Reno now says certain key provisions of last year's act should not
be applied retroactively to people who had deportation cases pending before
April 1, when the pertinent sections of the new law took effect. Previously, the
Justice Department had argued the opposite.

Reno also vacated a ruling by the Board of Immigration Appeals -- a Justice
Department review panel -- that restricted the ability of Salvadorans,
Nicaraguans and other Central Americans to seek relief from deportation. The
Clinton administration had previously backed the ruling.

The administration's turnaround would allow "hardship" exemptions for multitudes
of Central Americans who came to the United States during that region's civil
wars. Most of those affected -- estimated at more than 500,000 -- have been in
the United States since at least 1990 and have had temporary legal status.

The administration move also would provide additional defense against expulsion
for thousands of people of other nationalities, including many illegal
immigrants, who were in deportation proceedings before April 1.

Sharon Rummery, a public-information officer for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in San Francisco, said she had no estimates of how many
of the immigrants affected live in the Bay Area. But the area is home to more
than 50,000 Central American emigres, and a substantial percentage of those will
benefit from Reno's decision.

The Clinton plan does not grant legal residency to anyone, but it gives eligible
applicants a chance to argue their case before immigration judges.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 13, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BACKLOG RETURNS TO INS OFFICES SAN JOSE: COUNTY WORKERS SOUGHT TO HELP SPEED
CITIZENSHIP PROCESSING.

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 881 words


Immigration officials bragged of speedier citizenship processing at San Jose
offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service earlier this year, but
average delays have since soared and are once again among the nation's longest.

In 1996, the INS reduced the waiting time in San Jose to six months, down from a
nationwide high of 18 months in 1995. But these days, the average delay has
climbed back to 10 months, said Lois Chappell, the new INS officer-in-charge in
San Jose.

"We thought it was going to subside and it just hasn't," she said Friday.

In yet another INS attempt to combat such delays, a handful of Santa Clara
County employees soon could be wearing INS uniforms under a novel proposal
designed to help reduce the lengthy backlog at the federal agency's local
offices.

Under the temporary relief plan, the county would lend the federal government
five to seven workers to help process paperwork at an office that has been
described as one of the most overwhelmed and understaffed in the nation.

Although INS offices across the country have been experiencing an increase in
citizenship applications the past two years, San Jose continues to have among
the nation's lengthiest backlog of cases. The backlog primarily affects
permanent residents who have applied for citizenship but are awaiting
interviews.

Two major factors were responsible for the increase, Chappell said: some
temporary workers quit, and the office experienced a new wave of applicants,
whose public benefits are slated to be eliminated.

Chappell said representatives on the county and federal levels are trying to
work out an agreement on the borrowed workers that would benefit both agencies.
It is unknown what departments the workers would come from or when they would
start, if the INS accepts the plan.

"They want to help, we want them to help, but we need to be within the legal
guidelines," she said. "Additional staff to handle the volume would be
tremendous help."

Similar proposals are being considered in New York City and Miami, according to
INS representative Brian Jordan of Washington. The waiting time for citizenship
applications in those districts is close to a year, he said.

Santa Clara County stepped in at a time when it was sponsoring a unique effort
to encourage thousands of legal immigrants to become citizens. Last October, the
county hired an attorney as its new director of citizen and immigration programs
to help local immigrants gain citizenship and thus prevent a potential $90
million drain on the county as a result of federal welfare reform.

More than 34,000 legal immigrants receive federal welfare benefits in the
county; if they don't become citizens by August they will lose their benefits
and would be eligible for funding under the county's general assistance program.

The San Jose INS office -- actually two offices in separate, downtown buildings
-- has been pelted with heavy criticism by the local congressional delegation
for its delays in processing citizenship applications.

In January, the South Bay's entire congressional delegation complained at a news
conference that the INS wasn't doing enough to improve services and reduce the
backlog in San Jose.

Since then, however, two of the four House members have toned down their
criticism because of noticeable improvements, they said. Spokesmen for Rep. Anna
Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and Rep. Sam Farr, D-Monterey, said they no longer hear from
angry constituents on the issue.

Two other representatives continue to voice complaints.

"We're still continuing to battle with the INS . . . frankly it's not much
better than it was six months ago," said Casey Beyer, district director for Rep.
Tom Campbell, R-Campbell. A solution proposed by Campbell: Elevate the San Jose
office to its own district, much like San Francisco, which the INS has been
unwilling to do.

"I'm extremely frustrated," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, whose office
"constantly" gets complaints from the public on the INS delays. She has met with
INS Commissioner Doris Meissner several times, and another meeting is scheduled
for Tuesday.

Just last week Lofgren spoke with a group of seniors who took the citizenship
exam a year ago and must take it again because a year had lapsed without being
called in for an INS interview. "That's the case I'm making to the commissioner,
that they have to get caught up," she said.

"In all fairness I think she (Meissner) has been very sympathetic and has tried
to respond, but we're not there yet," Lofgren said, adding that part of the
delay is due to the INS being in the "technological Dark Ages," which she hopes
to upgrade with a proposal to improve funding.

She welcomes the help from Santa Clara County, which previously employed her as
a supervisor.

Chappell, who took her job in April, hopes to once again reduce San Jose's delay
from 10 months to six, about the same waiting time of INS offices in other major
U.S. cities. She said she plans make that happen by:

* Borrowing five to seven county workers.

* Hiring at least three employees.

* Sending information officers periodically to work in Watsonville and Salinas.

* Consolidating offices by moving into a leased building at 1187 Monterey
Highway by early October.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
A multilingual, automated telephone line is fielding orders for citizenship
applications and other paperwork that used to be solicited in person. The number
is (800) 870-3676.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NEW YORK TIMES
Boxes of applications for U.S. citizenship await processing at the San Jose
Immigration and Naturalization Service office.
[970713 LO 2B]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 31, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CITIZENSHIP REQUESTS WAY DOWN BAY AREA AGENCIES LINK DROP TO VOW TO RESTORE
BENEFITS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN AND ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1110 words


Bay Area naturalization applications are down dramatically, and non-profit
agencies that help immigrants become citizens say the trend began when elderly
legal immigrants realized they no longer needed to become citizens to retain
their eligibility for public benefits.

The agencies began noticing a steep drop in applicants within days of President
Clinton's vow three months ago that he would demand the restoration of most
Supplemental Security Income benefits to legal immigrants. Congressional
Republicans agreed to his demands May 2 as part of a tentative budget deal -- a
pact that was finalized Tuesday.

Interest in citizenship skyrocketed last summer after welfare reform eliminated
SSI and most other public aid for non-citizen newcomers who had not worked for
at least 10 years. But coming during a presidential election year, and on the
heels of two California ballot initiatives that aroused strong passions among
immigrants, the importance of welfare to the boom wasn't entirely clear.

Anti-immigration activists seized on the news as evidence that many new
immigrants care little about becoming citizens and more about feeding at the
public trough.

"This also shows you how good the network is for immigrants who get
taxpayer-subsidized services," said Rick Oltman, regional coordinator of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform. "It shows how quickly the word is
being spread."

Immigrant-rights activists, meanwhile, confronted with indications that the
citizenship explosion is subsiding, issued a new call for non-citizen immigrants
to become citizens. They point out that non-citizen legal immigrants as of Sept.
1 will become ineligible for food stamps unless they have worked for 10 years.

'Forever vulnerable'

"We're telling anyone -- whether they're elderly or making $125,000 a year --
that if you're a lawful, permanent resident, you better get naturalized," said
Lina Avidan, director of the Northern California Citizenship Project. "People
will be forever vulnerable to the winds of Congress."

A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Wednesday that
applications at the agency's San Jose office plummeted by roughly half in June,
the last month for which figures are available. The number of applicants had
averaged about 3,900 earlier this year. In June, the number dipped to just under
2,000, spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said.

In the San Francisco office, applications dropped to 3,824 in June, compared
with an average of 6,000 in the first five months of the year.

Rummery said the declines should mean that the INS can begin clearing its
breathtaking backlog of citizenship applications -- "assuming that the June
figure isn't an anomaly."

Applicants in San Jose, which has one of the most swamped INS offices, now must
wait about a year to become citizens, in part because of strict new rules aimed
at making sure convicted criminals aren't allowed to become citizens. The agency
repeatedly has vowed to get the waiting period down to six months.

Officials at Bay Area non-profit agencies say they have little doubt that the
main reason for the drop was the pledge to restore SSI for elderly and aged
immigrants.

"I started a naturalization workshop in early February of each year and got at
least 20 to 30 applicants for the next few months," said Sophie Feal,
supervising attorney of the citizenship unit of La Raza Centro Legal in San
Francisco's Mission District. "At the beginning of June, I started getting
zero."

Would-be applicants also began canceling appointments for INS assistance and
dropping out of English classes and citizenship test classes.

"A few months ago, we were processing 150 to 180 citizenship applications every
other week," Feal said. "Now we're down to 50."

Clinton's SSI pledge was widely publicized in the Spanish-speaking media as a
"done deal," she said.

"When the announcements came out that benefits may be restored," she said, "I
got phone calls from people saying, 'I really don't want to do this anymore.' "

Non-profit agencies in Santa Clara County also reported significant decreases in
applications.

Martin Valdivia, the citizenship program coordinator at the Center for
Employment Training in San Jose, said the number of welfare recipients seeking
citizenship declined dramatically while the number of applicants not on public
assistance has decreased only slightly.

One immigrant put at ease by Clinton's pledge was Tran Nguyen, a 22-year-old San
Jose waitress who immigrated from Vietnam as a child.

She said Wednesday that she had applied for citizenship in April but hadn't yet
heard from the INS. Because of the turn of events in Washington, she was no
longer concerned.

"Everyone was telling me it was important, so I thought, 'OK, it's time,' " she
said. "But now, people are not as excited about it."

Immigration-reform activist Oltman, a registered Republican, called the GOP's
decision to cut off benefits for legal immigrants a "stupid decision" that drove
new voters into the arms of Democrats and made it harder to shrink legal
immigration.

"The unintended consequence was that it pushed people to become citizens,"
Oltman said. "It couldn't have been designed better to screw up immigration
reform."

Antonio Gonzalez, director of the Southeast Voter Registration Education
Project, agreed.

'Storm of fire and acrimony'

"These new Americans are coming in a storm of fire and acrimony," he said. "Once
the die is cast, a pattern is set up. Will the pattern change this quickly? I
don't think so."

Gonzalez said he hopes that most immigrants are like Maria Garcia, a 37-year-old
Mountain View assembly worker who just got angrier as she learnedabout
Proposition 187, Proposition 209 and other measures perceived by some as
anti-immigrant. Last year, she decided to do something: get her citizenship and
register to vote.

"I have been here since I was 5, and getting citizenship was not something I
thought about a lot," said Garcia, who became a citizen Wednesday. "But when I
heard that they were going to take away SSI and other things, I said, 'No, no! I
had better have my say.' Everything I had been taking for granted for my family
and friends was in jeopardy."

Other immigrants interviewed Wednesday at San Jose's INS office said they had
more reasons for applying than simply welfare.

"We hurried because we didn't want to lose benefits," said Maru, 34, an
Ethiopian native waiting at San Jose's INS office, whose wife got citizenship
Wednesday. "But there's no question that this is the best place in the world to
live and that we want to be citizens so we can stay."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: AUGUST 2, 1997

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/2/97, pg. 2A)
An article on Page 1A Thursday about the recent drop in applications for U.S.
citizenship contained some erroneous figures for San Jose naturalizations.
Immigration officials transposed the figures for May and June; in actuality,
1,858 people applied for citizenship in May and 3,242 sought citizenship in
June. In spite of the error, the trend described in the story remains;
citizenship applications have dropped both locally and statewide since it became
clear that elderly legal immigrants did not have to become citizens to retain
their eligibility for some public benefits.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 6, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS PLAN GETS MIXED REACTION EVEN SOME AGENCY CRITICS DON'T BACK BREAKUP IDEA

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 713 words


You'd think the South Bay congressional delegation and other critics of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service would be popping champagne corks over a
new proposal to break up the agency.

But think again. While many people bitterly despise the federal agency, it's
also the devil they know.

Some politicians and groups who otherwise support the concept of breaking the
agency into separate citizenship and enforcement units are skeptical or even
aghast at the latest recommendations of the U.S. Commission on Immigration
Reform.

The panel will soon recommend that the State Department take over responsibility
for naturalizing new citizens and that the Labor Department be put in charge of
sanctioning employers who fail to verify work-authorization requirements.

"I hear constant complaints about rudeness, inefficiency, incompetence and long
lines," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. "But if you check with anyone trying
to bring in their wife or husband from a foreign country, the State Department
is not a beloved institution either."

The State Department, which now handles visas at U.S. embassies overseas, has a
terrible reputation among immigrants and their families, immigrant-advocacy
groups say.

"If you have ever tried to talk to consular officials and get them to admit they
made a mistake, their whole attitude is that they're above scrutiny," said
Charles Wheeler, senior attorney at the Catholic Legal Immigration Network.
"It's unbelievably revolting. And the Department of Labor is almost as bad when
it comes to arrogance."

Casey Beyer, district director for Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, also
questioned whether dismantling the INS would resolve the most immediate problem
South Bay residents have with the INS -- long waits for just about everything.

The INS says the waiting time to become a citizen in San Jose is now about 12
months. Beyer said it's more like 18 to 24.

'Urgent situation'
"Over the course of time, this proposal may or may not reduce the problem, but
we won't know for years whether it would work," Beyer said. "But we have an
urgent situation in San Jose right now."

Some anti-immigration groups immediately denounced the proposal by the
bipartisan commission, created by Congress in 1990 to help advise lawmakers on
immigration issues.

"The problem is not the agency, but an unworkable policy -- specifically the
failure of Congress to enact the commission's previous recommendations," said
Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "Now, Congress
wants to turn around and blame it on the agency itself."

Proposals rejected
Mehlman noted that Congress had rejected the commission's 1995 recommendations
to make substantial cuts in legal immigration and set up a sophisticated system
for ensuring that employees are in the country legally.

"First fix the policy -- not the agency," said Mehlman, whose group has called
for the resignation of IRS Commissioner Doris Meissner for allowing thousands of
immigrants with criminal records to be naturalized before the 1996 presidential
election -- among other complaints.

But some INS critics said the proposal deserves a serious look.

"I think we need to have a public debate on the recommendations," said Rep. Sam
Farr, D-Monterey.

Harold Ezell of Newport Beach, one of the eight members of the commission,
argued that the INS was out of control.

"Something has to be done when you have a Titanic called the INS going blindly
into the iceberg," said Ezell, a former regional INS commissioner who
co-authored Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative aimed at illegal immigration.
"You just can't be talking about moving the deck chairs around."

'Abominable job'
Spokesmen for Gov. Pete Wilson argued that the INS has done such an "abominable
job" that the governor is willing to give the idea a chance.

Local INS officials, meanwhile, are lying low. The official word from Washington
came in the form of a one-page statement not attributed to any official.

The statement argued that the INS, after years of neglect, had finally begun to
receive the attention and resources it needed -- and the result was beefed-up
border patrols, record removal of criminal immigrants and the infusion of new
equipment and technology.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 11, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FIX, DON'T DISMANTLE, THE INS PLAN TO PARCEL OUT IMMIGRANT SERVICES WOULD CREATE
MORE RED TAPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 537 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service may be one of the nation's worst-run
federal agencies, but dismantling it altogether would cause more problems than
it would solve.

In a report leaked to the New York Times last week, the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform proposes to carve the INS into three separate bodies:

* The Justice Department would control borders and enforce immigration
regulations on U.S. soil;

* the State Department -- not renowned for its foreigner-friendly behavior
processing American visas overseas -- would handle immigration services and
citizenship requests;

* and the Labor Department would enforce rules covering the hiring of foreign
workers. Currently all of these services are under the Justice Department.

As far as we're concerned, the commission's proposals would take immigrants
served by the agency out of the frying pan and into the fire. While the INS
clearly needs a major overhaul, dividing it into three separate entities would
unnecessarily complicate a system that already leaves immigrants tied up in red
tape.

The State Department has proved itself unpopular and unresponsive to immigration
regulations in its role overseas, and there is too little interaction between
the State Department and the INS. And the Labor Department already has its hands
full enforcing federal health and safety laws.

While some immigrants might be less reticent to approach the INS in its service
role if the agency were not so strongly associated with border controls and
deportation, the resources it would take to implement a split would be better
spent ensuring that one agency is run efficiently and with up-to-date
technology. Although federal funds earmarked for the INS have doubled in the
last four years -- totaling $3.1 billion this fiscal year -- most of these
resources have been dedicated to law enforcement, leaving naturalization service
departments woefully understaffed at a time when more and more immigrants are
applying to become citizens.

To help clear San Jose's 12-month backlog of citizenship applications, Santa
Clara County has offered to provide $20,000 for criminal background checks on
applicants for 10 new clerical jobs. And while Santa Clara's County Executive
Richard Wittenberg has been frustrated by the slow processing of applications
during the county's recent citizenship drive, he says that things are getting
better at San Jose's INS office since a new permanent director was hired.

"This is a heck of a time to start changing things around," he says. "I'd like
to work with what we have. Giving the INS adequate resources and training would
be the answer."

Wittenberg and others, including U.S. Rep. Tom Campbell, argue that San Jose's
office -- which has one of the biggest citizenship backlogs in the country --
should receive the same resources and staffing as district offices such as San
Francisco. San Jose is currently a subdivision of San Francisco's INS.

We're not convinced that the State Department or the already overburdened Labor
Department could do a better job than the INS. Leave the INS under the Justice
Department. But give it more resources, and by all means make San Jose a
district office.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: NEW YORK TIMES
Boxes of records filled the San Jose INS office earlier this year.
[970811 ED 6B]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 11, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS ARE CHOOSING TO BELONG

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 707 words


Did you ever have to make up your mind?

Say yes to one and leave the other behind.

It's not always easy; it's not always kind.

Did you ever have to make up your mind?
Things are looking up for legal immigrants. Congress agreed to restore benefits
for the elderly and disabled. The California budget funds food stamps for
children in immigrant families.

Applications for citizenship are down.

Does that mean immigrants are freeloaders who want to take our money without
giving allegiance to our country?

It's a bit more complicated.

The rise in citizenship applications started in 1994 when nearly 3 million
people, legalized in the 1986 amnesty, became eligible.

The trend continued in 1985, with help from a federal citizenship drive and the
after-effects of Proposition 187.

"There was a big upsurge with 187," says Steve Jack, who's taught citizenship
classes in East San Jose and Santa Clara for 10 years. "People said they wanted
to vote on issues that were affecting them."

In Santa Clara County, the number of voters originally from Mexico shot up 22.5
percent from 1995 to 1996, from Vietnam 14.9 percent, from China, Hong Kong and
Taiwan, 11.6 percent.

Benefits became an issue in 1996. In August, Congress voted to pay for welfare
reform by cutting benefits for legal immigrants, making them ineligible for food
stamps, Medicaid or Supplemental Security Income, unless they'd been taxpayers
for 10 years or served in the military. President Clinton signed the bill.

It set off a panic. What would happen to the 78-year-old widow whose family
couldn't pay her nursing home bills? How would working poor immigrants cope
without food stamps?

Immigrants crowded into English and citizenship classes. Applications for
citizenship soared. More than a million took the oath to become citizens of the
United States in fiscal 1996, doubling previous numbers.

Santa Clara County funded a program to help immigrants receiving public
assistance apply for citizenship: If legal residents lose federal aid, they
could end up on General Assistance, at the cost of millions of local tax
dollars.

In May, President Clinton and Republican leaders agreed to restore SSI
eligibility. Citizenship applications declined in San Jose, San Francisco and
Los Angeles, reported a July 31 Mercury News story. Non-profit agencies helping
poorly educated immigrants reported turn-out at citizenship workshops fell
sharply, especially among those on public assistance.

But immigrants' desire for citizenship remains high, compared to earlier years.

In San Jose, applications fell in May. But the number rebounded in June to the
average for 1997, which is much higher than the previous average.

In San Francisco, applications dropped from an average of 6,000 a month at the
peak panic to 3,824 in June, very close to the June 1996 figures.

Los Angeles peaked in April at 37,576, falling to 30,214 in May and 26,417 in
June. That's way above the previous June's total. INS district director Richard
Rogers thinks applications are leveling off at the new average of about 30,000 a
month.

There's no question that interest in citizenship rises and falls with the
information immigrants get about benefits, about immigration policy, about
changes in their home countries that make dual nationality possible or make
returning home impossible.

But for many immigrants, the benefits cut-off was a wake-up call. It told them
it's time to choose, and time to act.

Citizenship classes are full. Several adult ed programs held summer classes for
the first time to meet the demand; Santa Clara Unified plans to add more
citizenship classes in the fall. The Vietnamese American Cultural and Social
Council, which doubled citizenship and English classes last year, is also adding
more classes. The Literacy Alliance of the South Bay, which offers one-on-one
and small group tutoring, is looking for more volunteers to meet soaring demand.

Kerry Jenkins, a citizenship teacher in Santa Clara and Redwood City, sees no
change in her students' desire to become a U.S. citizen. "The benefits thing got
them to stop and think: Why would I go back to my homeland? My kids are
Americans. They'll be here forever. This is my home."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 30, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LONELY WAIT FOR WOULD-BE RESIDENTS LAW EXPIRING THAT LET HOPEFULS REMAIN IN U.S.

BYLINE: KARYN HUNT, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Hundreds of thousands of immigrants could be separated from their families for
as long as a decade while they apply for permanent residency if a little-known
provision of federal naturalization law is not extended, immigrant rights
activists warned Friday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Act allows applicants to stay in the United
States while they go through the filing process, if they are sponsored by a
close family member or employer and if they can prove there are no obstacles to
their eventual permanent visa.

But that exemption is set to expire Sept. 30 and immigration rights advocates
worry that anti-immigrant sentiment in Congress will prevent its renewal. An
appropriations bill that included its extension passed the Senate, but not the
House. It is slated for discussion in a conference committee when Congress
returns to work in September.

Opponents say the provision is just another form of amnesty for illegal aliens.

If it is not extended, that would force hundreds of thousands of legal
applicants to leave their families behind for as long as 10 years while they
apply for permanent visas in their native countries, supporters said.

"Who will take care of my son?," asked Teresa Jimenez, who will have to leave
the United States if the provision is not extended, even though both her child,
2 1/2-year-old David, and her husband of four years are legal residents and can
stay.

"I'll have to take him with me. My son has a close relationship with his father.
I believe he would suffer if I had to leave," she added.

The provision passed in 1994, then was renewed in 1996. Supporters, including
Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., a long list of Silicon Valley companies, trade
associations and religious groups want it made permanent.

They argued the provision will not bring additional immigrants into the United
States or ease admission standards because those to whom it applies would
eventually get residency anyway.

They said it simply means families will not be separated while they go through
the application process, that employers will not lose valued workers, that it
generates revenues for the Immigration and Naturalization Service and that it
reduces the workload for consular offices.

An opponent had a different take on the provision:

"What it basically says is don't bother to wait your turn as millions of other
people do. Go ahead, jump the line for a fee," said Allen Kay, spokesman for
U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee.

If the provision is not renewed, prospective immigrants will have to leave the
United States to get their visas.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: DAN KRAUSS -- ASSOCIATED PRESS
Teresa Jimenez holds her son, David Valdivia, 2, at a S.F. event to urge
extending the INS law.
[970830 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 30, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AT LONG LAST, AN AMERICAN WOMAN BELIEVED TO BE 117 TAKES CITIZENSHIP OATH

BYLINE: DENNIS ANDERSON, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 551 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Smiling, praying and waving a small U.S. flag, Manik Bokchalian joined the 4,000
others taking the citizenship oath Friday, but immigration officials believe she
was the only 117-year-old in the crowd.

"As best we can document, she was born in 1880," said Richard Rogers, district
director for the Los Angeles office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. "We think she'll make a great citizen."

Bokchalian attributed her long life to a love of God and time shared with a good
husband. But Hosep Bokchalian died 50 years ago, she recalled, speaking through
an interpreter who speaks Armenian.

When U.S. Magistrate Judge Carla Woehrle called on the group to stand for the
oath, Bokchalian got up from her wheelchair. She stood, holding her American
flag. She smiled and waved for a battery of news cameras.

Bokchalian was born in eastern Turkey, and she said she remembers little about
the greatest event she survived, the mass deaths of Armenians during their
expulsion from Turkey in 1915.

The deportation became a massacre that Armenians say killed 1.5 million people
from 1915 to 1923 and created the global scattering of Armenians from their
Caucasus Mountain region.

But Friday was not a day for sadness. Bokchalian, who lives in Van Nuys with her
son, joined immigrants from 99 countries taking the oath.

Among the requirements in the oath was to abandon allegiance to "any foreign
prince, potentate or sovereignty" and to be available for military service if
called on under U.S. law.

Rogers said he did not know if she was the oldest immigrant to ever take the
oath, but he added quickly, "She is the oldest I can recall. We get people in
their 90s and someone occasionally who is 100."

The new citizens were sworn in Friday in two separate ceremonies at the enormous
Los Angeles Convention Center.

Bokchalian had approached the privately owned Department of Civil Services, a
suburban Glendale company, which helps with immigration filings.

"We were in shock. When she handed us her green card, it said she was born in
1880," said Ashot Sean Gambaryan, an employee of the firm.

"We couldn't believe it -- she only looked 80 years old," Gambaryan said of
Bokchalian's November visit to his office.

She lived in Turkey, Syria, Armenia and Lebanon before moving to the United
States in 1980 at the age of 100.

About the pleasures of living in the United States, she said, "It would be a sin
to say any one thing is the best thing. Everything about living here is
wonderful."

During her working life she plied the trade of rug maker and helped her husband,
a butcher. She said her favorite food is basturma, an Armenian meat dish.

A member of the Armenian Greek Orthodox church, she said she wakes up every
morning with a prayer.

The citizenship ceremonies have been a monthly fixture at the convention center
this year, but the agency's track record has slowed since last year when
revamped safeguards were enacted in November.

Measures were put in place to ensure that no application would be approved
without the confirmed results of a full criminal background screening, including
a fingerprint check.

In 1997, 240,000 immigrants in the Los Angeles region were naturalized, while
this year the agency may only be able to grant 130,000 citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Manik Bokchalian, who was born in eastern Turkey, joined 4,000 immigrants from
99 countries taking the oath of citizenship Friday at the cavernous Los Angeles
Convention Center.
[970830 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 5, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION CRUELTY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 447 words


AMID civil war and chaos in the '70s and '80s, hundreds of thousands of Central
Americans fled to the United States. Told they could qualify for refugee visas,
many have stood in line since, waiting for their immigration papers to be
approved. This year, Uncle Sam closed the window and said to many: Go away.

The Justice Department began shipping them back to their countries until
Attorney General Janet Reno this summer intervened.

Changing immigration rules midstream is both unjust and cruel, particularly to
Central Americans who have over the years been shunted from one program to
another. It's time for Congress to clear the ambiguity, and speed the chance for
the estimated 300,000 immigrants to become permanent residents.

It would not be unreasonable to offer a blanket amnesty to those who applied
under now-defunct programs for Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Nicaraguans. At the
very least, justice demands that their applications be heard under the previous
set of rules.

The complications in their cases have been largely bureaucratic. In the 1980s,
the litmus test for refugee status was tinged by politics. People escaping from
a regime the United States sought to undermine, Nicaragua, were far more likely
to be granted asylum than were those fleeing neighboring dictatorships that
Washington was propping up. To correct this inequity, the INS granted a reprieve
to Salvadorans and Guatemalans.

Then it waited seven years, until last April, to begin hearing applications. In
the meantime, Congress revamped immigration law and greatly narrowed the doorway
for legalizing people already in the United States. The INS made those changes
retroactive, so about 1,000 Central Americans at the head of the line were
declared illegal and deported.

Many of those now facing deportation had been encouraged to come out of the
shadows and register for the previous protective programs. To do that, they were
issued deportation papers first. Oh, just ignore those orders, they were told;
it's just an administrative procedure so that you can get an asylum interview.

Now, it turns out, those assurances were a sham. Not only are those papers
important; the date they were issued effectively prevents many immigrants from
qualifying for legalization under the new law.

Such cavalier treatment is not only shameful; it also discredits the government
and adds to widespread immigrant distrust of the INS and U.S. government.

The convoluted rules applying to this group of Central Americans deserve to be
junked. Congress should order the INS to handle their cases under the old, less
stringent rules, and to quickly get them out of deportation limbo.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: PAUL KOLSTI

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 23, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE INS MUST BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE

BYLINE: ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 730 words


A stringent new immigration law became fully effective six months ago. Some of
its fundamental features -- elimination of judicial review in many cases,
restrictions on asylum, retroactive application -- are being tested in the
courts. But it is possible to make a few preliminary observations on how the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is carrying out the new law.

First, the statute creates a system of "expedited removal" of people arriving at
our borders. In that process, a single immigration agent may deny entry to
someone, and ban him or her from the United States for five years, without a
hearing or appeal.

The provision was aimed originally at people who arrived at ports of entry with
fraudulent documents, notably asylum claimants who might not really be fleeing
persecution. But it is in fact being applied primarily to ordinary visitors.

Since the new law took effect in April, thousands of people with valid U.S.
visas have been summarily turned away because an INS officer thought, for
example, that their frequent previous stays showed an intention to do more than
visit.

Putting a decision of such importance in the hands of a single official is a
sharp break with the tradition of American law that anyone affected by a
government ruling is entitled to a hearing. But even under the new summary
process it is possible to insist upon a minimum of fairness and accountability.

INS officers could and should be required to tell each excluded visitor clearly
why she is being removed, and give her a chance to answer. As it is, those
denied entry too frequently complain of a Kafkaesque inability to find out what
they have done wrong.

Second, anyone stopped at an airport because of doubts about his admissibility
is entitled to decent treatment while the inquiry goes on. There are too many
reports of visitors who have been treated in inhumane ways: imprisoned, held
without food or water, denied the right to use the toilet.

INS policy is to imprison, while they are investigated, only suspected criminals
or others presenting a risk. But people plainly not in those categories have
been imprisoned. One about whom I wrote was Martina Diederich Thompson, a young
German wife of a Louisiana contractor, who arrived without the proper visa and
was held in the notorious New Orleans Parish Prison for a week.

In several cases described to me, people stopped at the Miami Airport were
refused permission for many hours by INS agents to use the toilet. That practice
can only be intended to torment and humiliate. It was used by the KGB.

Such mistreatment seems to reflect an endemic problem in the INS. Likepolicemen
hardened by the viciousness they see in criminals, some immigration agents
generalize from fraudulent aliens to a skepticism of all. The great power given
to individual agents by the new law increases the chance of abuse.

Third, U.S. immigration laws, regulations and forms are hard for anyone to
understand. When someone makes a mistake without wrongful intent, he or she
should be allowed to correct the mistake without being punished.

Martina Thompson, for example, plainly wanted to stay with her husband in
Louisiana. But she came as a visitor, so she was inadmissible; still, there was
no reason to handcuff and imprison her. INS officers should simply have
explained her mistake and told her to go back to where she started and file the
correct documents.

Indeed, it is INS policy to do just that. Of those turned away at the border, 30
percent are allowed to withdraw their entry applications and leave without
penalty. But not all INS officers are following the policy.

Accountability is what the INS needs, more than ever because of the new law's
summary process. INS Commissioner Doris Meissner is trying to assure that while
she carries out the new law, respecting the need for both vigilance and
fairness. But it is not easy in a sprawling agency that deals with millions of
people under exigent conditions. And it is the harder because of anti-immigrant
feeling in Congress and the country.

When I wrote about the imprisonment of Martina Thompson as she tried to reach
her husband in Louisiana, a California doctor sent me a copy of the column on
which he had written in red ink: "Bull. Bleeding heart liberals are responsible
for we Californians paying through the nose for goof-offs."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Anthony Lewis is a columnist for the New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               SEPTEMBER 24, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS OFFICIALS CATCH S.J. MURDER SUSPECT IDENTIFIED AT U.S.-MEXICO CROSSING

BYLINE: RODNEY FOO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 494 words


After fleeing to Mexico, a man wanted for allegedly gunning down his former
girlfriend at a San Jose supermarket was captured Tuesday by immigration
officers as he tried to re-enter the United States at a Texas border crossing,
authorities said.

Hikmat Moustafa Mouchaourab, 32, tried unsuccessfully to turn around and return
to Mexico as he was being questioned by U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service officers on the Gateway to the Americas bridge, INS officials said. The
span crosses the Rio Grande, linking Laredo, Texas, and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico.

As Mouchaourab was being detained, agents ran a check on him and made the arrest
after learning that San Jose police had a warrant for him in the killing of
Farsima Sepehri Fard.

Mouchaourab, who was involved in a bitter breakup with Fard, is accused of
fatally shooting the 24-year-old San Francisco woman in a Lucky store on
Saratoga Avenue where she worked at an in-store Bank of America branch.

After the slaying, Mouchaourab ran out of the store and shot a witness, Robert
Porcari, 39, in the face as Porcari tried to call 911 for help from a pay phone,
police said. Porcari was treated at Santa Clara Valley Medical Center and
survived.

Mouchaourab had been missing since the Sept. 13 shootings, and detectives said
they suspected he had fled the country.

Mouchaourab told INS agents he had taken a bus from Los Angeles to Miami before
traveling to San Antonio and then to Laredo, said Ramon Juarez, INS Laredo Port
of Entry director.

The suspect apparently tried to board a flight at Nuevo Laredo but decided
against it when he realized he would have to be checked by Mexican immigration
officials, Juarez said.

Instead, Mouchaourab trudged back to Laredo, walking across a bridge that is
used by an estimated 20,000 people during weekdays. But he ran into two INS
"sidewalk rovers," who are part of Operation Rio Grande, a detail calculated to
curtail illegal immigration, Juarez said.

The officers picked Mouchaourab, who wore jeans and a shirt, out of the crowd
because he fit an INS-developed profile designed to single out potential
immigration violators. Juarez declined to elaborate on why the agents focused on
Mouchaourab.

Mouchaourab told the INS officers he was a legal permanent resident, but he
could not produce the proper documentation, Juarez said.

"While he was trying to put on his charade . . . he sort of insisted, 'Let me go
back to Mexico,' " Juarez said. "But of course we were not done with the
inspection, and that was not something considered."

Mouchaourab was taken to the Webb County Jail to be held for San Jose police. He
is expected to be returned to the South Bay in about seven days, San Jose police
Lt. Joe Nunes said.

Nunes said detectives were not surprised Mouchaourab was in Texas. On Monday,
investigators called various law enforcement agencies in Texas to alert them
that a warrant for Mouchaourab's arrest had been issued.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 1, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION PANEL TAKES PARTING SHOT AT INS IN ITS FINAL REPORT, COMMISSION
CALLS FOR AGENCY'S END

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 792 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A federal immigration panel that held the promise of sweeping changes in how the
United States controls its borders went out of business Tuesday, sending
Congress a final report that -- like much of its work -- may generate more
stormy debate than tough new laws.

The U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, a bipartisan panel created by
Congress in 1990, called Tuesday for the breakup of the beleaguered Immigration
and Naturalization Service and the division of its responsibilities among other
government agencies.

"No agency can do everything now expected of the INS," said commission
Chairwoman Shirley Hufstedler. "Moreover, its missions are often in conflict."

But many experts said the commission's report may well bog down in Congress,
which rejected the panel's earlier recommendations for strict new limits on
legal immigration and for a national computer registry to screen job applicants
for valid U.S. citizenship. So far, only voluntary registry programs have been
put in place in a few states, including California.

"The commission has been a major failure," said Rick Swartz, who in 1982 founded
the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigrant group. "It lost credibility with
the White House and it saw most of its major recommendations rejected by the
Congress."

Warren Leiden, a member of the commission and a San Francisco attorney, said the
commission's chief accomplishment was its research and reports that helped
change the tenor of the nation's immigration debate -- which had grown white-hot
in 1994 with the passage of Proposition 187 in California.

"The commission got people thinking about difficult issues, but it missed its
mark on issues like legal immigration and a nationwide verification system,"
said Leiden, who nevertheless disagreed with the commission's recommendation to
break up the INS.

"It's the most expensive thing you can do in this critical time of immigration
management," he said of the INS proposal. "It's the most disruptive thing you
can do. I don't see it as really practical."

Indeed, the White House said Tuesday that President Clinton would "want to think
long and hard about" any restructuring of the INS.

"It's not clear exactly how you would take the enormously important task of
having safe, legal, orderly immigration, efficiently administered, and then have
those tasks dispersed around government," White House press secretary Michael
McCurry said.

But Hufstedler said the commission's plan -- let the Justice Department enforce
the borders and remove illegal immigrants, the State Department
handlecitizenship requests and the Labor Department enforce laws governing the
hiring of illegal workers -- makes common sense.

She said the INS suffers from "mission overload," and she bristled, in an
interview after the final report was released, at any suggestion that the
commission's work will gather more dust on a bookshelf than votes in Congress.

"You never expect to get everything you ask for from Congress all at once,"
Hufstedler said.

"This is not going to sit on any shelf. There is enough concern and enough
pressure by constituencies all over the United States that these recommendations
are going to be taken seriously."

While the INS is opposing any plan to split up the agency, Rep. Harold Rogers,
R-Ky., who is chairman of the House appropriations subcommittee with
jurisdiction over the Justice Department budget, is asking Attorney General
Janet Reno to review the recommendations.

"This is on the right track," a representative for Rogers said.

Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee, plans
to conduct a hearing on the proposal later this month. He has yet to oppose or
embrace the idea.

But Smith, who led and later abandoned commission-backed plans to severely
restrict levels of legal immigration last year, commended the panel for tackling
thorny issues and producing reports that, he said, have cleared the way for
serious debate about how best to tighten U.S. borders.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
a group that has called for a moratorium on immigration to the United States,
said the commission -- once headed by the late Rep. Barbara Jordan, R-Texas --
lost its opportunity to dramatically rewrite U.S. immigration law.

"But the failure, really, was not in the commission but in the political
process," Stein said. "It was in the complete collapse of the leadership of both
political parties. The commission itself made findings that any rational person
would. This country is literally being overwhelmed by people who don't want to
respect the nation's laws. But the time is rapidly passing when these issues can
be debated calmly."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HELPING IMMIGRANTS ADJUST
An immigration advisory panel recommends these steps to help legal immigrants
adjust to life in the United States:
* Learning English: Schools should have flexibility to instruct as they wish,
but federal money should be contingent upon results.
* Citizenship tests: History and government tests -- now unevenly administered
by a variety of private contractors -- should be standardized for fairness, and
require less rote memorization of facts and more comprehension of civics
concepts such as the right to trial by a jury of one's peers.
* Citizenship oath: Obscure words such as "abjure" and "potentate" should be
eliminated and replaced with wording such as "my sole political fidelity from
this day forward is to the United States of America."
Source: Associated PressRELATED STORY: page 1B

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 8, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SLIDES EAST, TARGETS SMUGGLERS MIGRANTS NOT GIVING UP: CRITICS OF OPERATION
GATEKEEPER SAY THE POLICY HAS FAILED.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Smuggling rings were targeted Tuesday in an immigration policy that has forced
illegal traffic to the eastern portion of the California-Mexico border.

Doris Meissner, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner,
dispatched 133 agents, inspectors and detention personnel to the Imperial
Valley, the agricultural region between San Diego County and the Arizona border.

She also authorized new checkpoints on major routes leading north. In the next
60 days, the latest phase of the federal program will cost taxpayers $2.5
million, Meissner said.

The program, Operation Gatekeeper, began at the beaches of San Diego in October
1994 with additional agents and surveillance equipment.

Since Gatekeeper's inception, the U.S. Border Patrol says it has reclaimed San
Diego County's border. But illegal immigrants continue to pour over perilous
sections to the east.

"Because the terrain is treacherous, many aliens are turning to smugglers to
guide them through," said Meissner.

Smugglers' fees have skyrocketed to about $1,200, more than triple the price for
a guide in the spring of 1994.

Billed as a deterrent policy, Gatekeeper has failed in that respect, say
critics. Scores of migrants interviewed over the past 20 months said they cannot
be dissuaded from entering the United States. Whether at crossing points in
Mexican border cities or at U.S. Border Patrol detention centers, the migrants
said they were fleeing Mexico's poverty.

In the past few months, Border Patrol agents in the Imperial Valley were run
ragged by more than three times the illegal traffic as in the summer of 1996.

Proof of the migrants' tenacity can be felt by standing in an exposed stretch of
land near the border. Summer daytime temperatures soar to 115 degrees, and
winter nighttime temperatures in the mountains hover near freezing. Following a
well-paid smuggler, undocumented migrants continue to cross the international
line.

U.S. Attorney and "Border Czar" Alan Bersin struck out against Gatekeeper's
critics Tuesday.

"No Border Patrol agent ever led a migrant into the mountains and left that
migrant to perish in the cold. No Border Patrol agent ever led a migrant into
the desert and abandoned them to dehydration and lack of water," he said. "To
the contrary, it is the Border Patrol who regularly rescues migrants who have
been taken there by smugglers."

But critics insist Bersin is missing the point: U.S. employers willing to employ
illegal immigrants are the real lure, they say, and smugglers are merely
responding to the demand.

Meissner disagreed Tuesday, saying the INS was redoubling its efforts at
punishing operators of illegal work sites. In 1997, the INS in California
completed 659 work-site enforcement investigations, up 37 percent from the year
before, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: [Doris Meissner]
[971008 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 19, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS RULES TIGHTEN OBLIGATION: CITIZENS TO BE FINANCIALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR
IMMIGRANTS THEY SPONSOR.

BYLINE: BETH HALLER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1403 words


Immigration rules to be unveiled Monday will make individual U.S. citizens
financially responsible for the immigrants they sponsor -- a requirement that
may profoundly change who comes to this country and how long they stay.

The rules -- part of federal efforts to prevent immigrants from being a "burden"
on society -- set new minimum income levels for those who may bring family
members from other countries. They also transform sponsorship into a contractual
obligation, meaning an individual could be sued for failing to support a
sponsored immigrant.

Family-sponsored immigrants are by far the largest class of legal immigrants to
the United States, making up more than 80 percent of the nationwide total and
about 95 percent of South Bay immigrants. Based on past data, experts suggest
that as many as one-third of families hoping to be sponsors will be unable to
meet the new income threshold, which is set at 125 percent of poverty level, or
about $20,000 for a family of four.

It's difficult to predict how many families will qualify and then be forced to
support their sponsored immigrants. But a Mercury News review of immigration
records underscores the potential.

Half of the 19,783 adult immigrants who came to the Bay Area in 1995 for "Family
Reunification" reported having no occupation. That suggests that their prospects
for employment in the Unites States may be low -- and their need for financial
assistance great.

Nevertheless, those who work with immigrants and sponsoring families suggest the
new law will not dissuade many of them -- at least at first. New immigrants from
countries with family-centered cultures like Vietnam -- the largest source of
immigrants to Santa Clara County, with 24 percent of the total in 1995 -- are
determined to get their relatives here, they say.

"It may just slow them down, but they will scrape together to get them here,"
said Maria Picetti, director of Catholic Charities immigration legal services in
San Jose.

New set of standards

That might come as a disappointment to INS officials, who insist that the new
rules will discourage "irresponsible" immigration.

"It will cut down on those people who are very carefree about who they sponsor,"
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman Bill Strassberger said. "We
want to avoid having people coming here thinking they are going to be taken care
of (by the government)."

The new immigration rules will take effect Dec. 19.

The heart of the rules is the concept of immigration sponsorship, which has long
existed in law. Under the law, immigrants who come to the United States for
"family reunification" must have a sponsor, who promises to support the
immigrant if he or she becomes ill, disabled or unemployed within three years of
entering the country.

But the law has never contained any firm requirements that a sponsor had to
meet, nor did it outline enforcement if the sponsor abandoned the obligation.

As a result of this and other issues, large numbers of immigrants ended up on
some sort of welfare program. That was the case until 1996, when Congress
declared most non-citizen immigrants ineligible for welfare as part of broader
reform. Legislators overhauled the sponsorship rules simultaneously, driven by
some compelling logic: If the government isn't going to support legal
immigrants, it ought to make certain that someone will.

Santa Clara County is one of the few counties in the nation that has
aggressively enforced sponsorship obligations. Beginning in 1993, it began
demanding that sponsors reimburse the county for county-funded welfare payments
to legal immigrants.

The new rules define sponsors' obligations starkly: They are completely
responsible for sponsored immigrants until the immigrants become U.S. citizens,
work 10 years, die or return to their country. No longer are sponsors allowed to
find a third-party organization to share responsibility for the immigrant. In
the past, it was typical for churches to sign so-called affidavits of support.

Making careful choices

In a sense, the rules are intended to make every sponsor act like Maria Lourdes
Ibarra did.

Ibarra, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the Philippines who lives in San Jose,
said she and her sister carefully considered their decision to bring her
70-year-old mother here in 1991, even though they were covered by older INS
rules.

Worried about the expense of medical care, Ibarra and her sister even took out
an insurance policy on her mother for catastrophic illnesses. Never did they
consider seeking public support.

But Ibarra is financially secure; she works in the accounting department of
Evergreen School District, and her husband is a professor at San Jose City
College.

The biggest puzzle about the new rules is their impact: How many prospective
sponsors will fail to meet the new financial requirements? And how many of those
who qualify will shy away from sponsorship because of the new responsibilities?

Some observers are convinced that the new rules will put families in a box. The
result, they say, will be a substantial barrier to immigration.

"No one will be able to bring anyone over. Their families will remain
disjointed," said the Rev. Jim Crawford of First United Methodist Church of San
Jose which has sponsored about 20 Vietnamese refugee families, has a Sunday
service in Vietnamese, and provides numerous immigrant-related programs.

But others think the desire of families to be reunited is too powerful. They
suggest that most potential sponsors will find the money to qualify, and just
hope for the best.

Huy Quang Nguyen of San Jose, who helped establish the Vietnamese American
Community Center in 1994, worries about the impact of the new law on those with
whom he works, but he doesn't think it will dissuade them. "Many people are
still in Vietnam. No family is totally here," he said, describing the pressures
to bring family members over.

It's difficult to get a comprehensive sense of the impact. There are no good
studies of immigrant sponsors that detail their income levels. Butstudies of
legal immigrants as a whole suggest that about one-third of them are too poor to
meet the requirements to become sponsors, said Richard Hobbs, director of the
Santa Clara County Citizenship and Immigration Program.

High welfare rates

Other studies suggest that legal immigrants have had a welfare rate of about 6.6
percent, one-third more than the rate for native-born Americans -- although part
of the disparity comes from refugees, who use welfare heavily and come to the
country under a different program.

Further, a Mercury News analysis of INS records shows that half of adult
immigrants arriving under the family reunification program describe themselves
as students, unemployed or retired -- a figure that suggests they could well
need outside support.

But those figures beg another question. Under the new rules, how will the
government handle individuals who fail to support their sponsored immigrants?
The law allows the government to sue sponsors; it allows welfare agencies to
sue; it even allows the immigrants to sue. But officials acknowledged privately
that they have set up no mechanism to find offenders and punish them.

Some anti-immigration groups think the rules don't go far enough. The Federation
for American Immigration Reform supports tighter sponsorship rules and would
like to increase the income threshold further, to 200 percent of the poverty
level.

And not everyone who works with immigrants thinks the new rules are a bad idea.
The requirements, for instance, make sense to Hans Frick, a retired Presbyterian
minister in San Jose who has worked with refugee relocation and immigrants for
many years.

"I feel this is good that the income requirement is higher," said Frick, who
immigrated from Germany in 1959. "I feel concerned when I see people arrive --
the sponsor has three children and the new person has four children. It's too
many people living in one place.

But Khanh Vu, whose mother-in-law and father-in-law immigrated recently from
Vietnam, is worried -- both about their health and what will happen if he can't
afford to help.

"We don't need money," said Vu, a 56-year-old working in San Jose. "We need
Medicare."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
A look at new immigrants
Employment skills
Top 10 home countries of immigrants

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 28, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MULTILINGUAL, FREE WORKSHOP ON CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 114 words


Santa Clara County is sponsoring a daylong workshop in a dozen languages
Wednesday to help legal immigrants start the citizenship application process.

The free workshop will explain the citizenship application form, interview
process and test. Those in attendance can sign up for other free sessions at
various non-profit agencies to get help with the application, have the required
photos and fingerprints taken, and have the application mailed to the INS office
for processing -- all at no charge.

Applicants do have to pay a $95 fee required by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service when the application is turned in. But all they need to
bring is a green card.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information, call the Santa Clara County Citizenship Program at (408)
299-2206.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 30, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAITING FOR CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG: SAN JOSE INS OFFICE TAKES 20 MONTHS TO PROCESS
APPLICATIONS AS WORKLOAD GROWS.

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1094 words


The delays at San Jose's immigration office have grown so great that it now
takes about 20 months to become a citizen -- roughly three times as long as it
took at the start of the year.

Frustrated applicants continue to bombard their congressional representatives
with complaints about the office, one of the slowest in the nation at processing
citizenship requests.

"It's just incredible that the government can run such an inefficient service,"
said Frank Arnold of San Jose, whose Nicaraguan wife applied for citizenship 2
1/2 years ago but is still waiting for an interview. "If I ran a business that
way, I would have been bankrupt years ago."

The San Jose office continues to struggle with problems that have increased the
backlogs at the Immigration and Naturalization Service nationwide.

The INS workload has surged since 1994, the year Proposition 187 was passed by
California voters and many immigrants sought citizenship to gain the right to
vote. Last year, when Congress voted to cut off public benefits to most
non-citizen legal immigrants, tens of thousands more filed for citizenship. And
in recent months the processing of INS cases slowed dramatically as the agency
implemented new procedures requiring more thorough background checks of
applicants.

San Jose INS officials say their office has been burdened by an additional
problem: an unusually high attrition rate among temporary workers, who don't
receive health insurance and other benefits and can't afford the high cost of
living in Santa Clara County.

"They find a permanent job somewhere else," said Lois Chappell, head ofSan
Jose's INS office. "We have no control over that. It's rather disheartening."

At the start of 1997, the San Jose office said it was taking an average of six
months for applicants to get citizenship interviews. By July, the wait had grown
to 10 months. Now, the typical applicant must wait 18 to 19 months for an
interview, Chappell said.

If their interviews are successful, applicants must wait an additional month or
two to be sworn in.

Immigration lawyers and some congressional staffers say they know of many cases
that take much longer than that. They estimate that the actual wait is between
two and three years.

Comparison of offices

The lines in San Jose are substantially longer than at other INS offices in the
region. The Fresno and San Francisco offices, for example, take less than half
the time -- 8 to 10 months -- to process a case.

Chappell and other INS officials predict that the pace of their work will pick
up significantly by early next year, thanks to various improvements locally and
nationally.

Top INS officials say many changes are in the works that they hope will reduce
the wait to no more than six months in every office.

Congress has just allocated the agency $211 million to speed up the processing
of citizenship applications. Among other things, the money will enable the INS
to replace temporary workers with "term employees" who receive benefits, better
pay and longer contracts.

INS officials are hoping the change will reduce the turnover that has afflicted
the San Jose operation, where 43,000 citizenship applications are on file.

The national backlog of citizenship cases stands at 1.2 million. Last year, 1.6
million people applied for citizenship and 700,000 were sworn in.

The San Jose operation, housed in two buildings downtown, has been closed since
last Monday while the staff moves into spacious new quarters at 1887 Monterey
Road. The new facility, which will open to the public on Dec. 8, should enable
the staff to work more efficiently, Chappell said.

INS officials in Washington said they are planning several steps aimed at
improving the agency's performance:

* The agency will install a central computer system able to track cases across
the country.

* It will upgrade computer equipment and software at local offices, some of
which have been processing applications manually.

* It will open four giant regional processing centers intended to expedite the
flow of paperwork and ease the burden on local offices.

* In January, it will begin operating its own fingerprinting centers. Until now,
applicants have been fingerprinted at private agencies. Many have been forced to
get their prints taken more than once because the INS rejected many prints as
faulty.

Fingerprint accuracy

The new fingerprinting centers, including one in San Jose, will have
computerized machines that will take more accurate prints.

"There are things we are doing the horse-and-buggy way," said Frank Fernandez,
assistant officer-in-charge at the San Jose office. "We're going to be able to
modernize and increase our efficiency."

Although many INS critics are skeptical, Chappell is optimistic that the changes
will speed the processing of citizenship applications. But she said it will take
several months before the San Jose office can begin to make a dent in the
backlog of citizenship cases.

So applicants here will continue to endure long waits. For many, the
consequences are serious, said Richard Hobbs, who oversees Santa Clara County's
citizenship program.

Roughly 8,600 legal immigrants in Santa Clara County lost their food stamps in
September as a result of welfare reform, Hobbs said. Many cannot regain access
to the lost benefits until their citizenship applications are approved. Nearly
all of them, Hobbs said, are still caught in the INS backlog.

The delays are also keeping some applicants apart from family members who are
living abroad. If they are not citizens, they must wait years before they can
sponsor their family members for immigration.

Many applicants, Hobbs said, applied for citizenship because they wanted to vote
against anti-immigration political candidates. Many are eager to vote in next
year's U.S. Senate and governor's races and fear they won't get the chance, he
said.

The INS delays are "directly impacting the family, the political and the
economic rights of tens of thousands of legal immigrants in Santa Clara County,"
Hobbs said.

Still waiting

Among the angry applicants is Luis Garcia, who applied for citizenship in March
1996 but is still waiting to be sworn in.

Garcia, a San Jose resident who immigrated from Mexico in 1970, said he passed
the citizenship test 16 months ago. But he has been waiting ever since to be
sworn in.

"They said they would call me in three months," Garcia said. "I'm still waiting.
I've been there five or six times, and I've gone to see my congressman, and I'm
still waiting."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 18, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TELEPHONE HANG-UP CLIENTS CAN'T LOCATE NUMBER FOR NEW OFFICE

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 433 words


San Jose immigration officials moved into new, bigger digs 10 days ago in a
sweeping effort to improve customer service.

Now, if only they'd give out the telephone number.

For reasons not completely explained, it has been virtually impossible for
callers to dial into the new, 48,000-square-foot Immigration and Naturalization
Service office on Monterey Highway. Those who try the old INS number published
in the phone book get no answer -- not even a referral stating that the main
number has changed.

And 411 operators? Forget it. They haven't been given the new number, either.

"We're trying to fix the glitches," said Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in
the San Francisco district office, which oversees the San Jose office.

For the record, the new number is (408) 918-4000, which a Mercury News reporter
got by calling INS regional headquarters in Laguna Niguel. It worked late
Wednesday, although the option for "live assistance" did not function, not even
during business hours.

All people who call the INS number get a voice-mail greeting with recorded
information. Since the office, at 1887 Monterey Highway, opened on Dec. 8, the
only way to reach it has been to show up in person.

The two-story building, which serves hundreds of customers daily and has free
parking, consolidated two much-smaller downtown offices. The move had been
anticipated for years as a way to decrease the backlog of tens of thousands of
citizenship and residency applications, INS officials have said.

Although backlogs of at least a year exist at INS offices around the country,
San Jose has one of the worst: It now takes an estimated 19 months for the INS
to process an application for citizenship.

Lois Camille Chappell, the INS officer-in-charge for San Jose, said the phone
system took local officials by surprise -- especially since INS headquarters in
Washington sent a consultant to deal with phone issues a while ago.

"We bought an entirely new system," she said.

And the problem isn't limited to those calling from the outside. Employees
trying to reach colleagues in the same building have been connected to screaming
fax machines and gurgling data lines.

"The numbers got mixed up with the connectivity," Chappell said, attempting to
explain what Pacific Bell and AT&T technicians have explained to her.

She added that the problems are complex and that specific people should not be
blamed for the mishaps.

"It's a combination of everything," she said. "We couldn't lay it on anybody."

Chappell said she hopes the problems will be fixed by the end of the week.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3), Map;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Marco Berruco, top, fill outs paperwork in the waiting room of the new INS
office on Monterey Highway in San Jose.
[971218 FR 1A 1]
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Above, people get help from an INS worker. Because of a phone glitch, people
have had to go to the new office in person.
[971218 FR 1A 2]
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Frank Fernandez, left, and another INS worker check among the vast files of
people applying for naturalization at the new INS office.
[971218 FR 26A]
MAP: Mercury News
New INS office

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                DECEMBER 25, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. CAN'T DEPORT 8 PALESTINIANS WIN NEW ROUND IN COURT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Over the dissent of three of its own judges, a federal appeals court reaffirmed
its refusal to deport Palestinians accused by the U.S. government of supporting
a terrorist organization.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday denied a rehearing of its 3-0
July ruling that barred the deportation of eight Los Angeles-area immigrants on
the grounds of selective enforcement.

The case involves eight Los Angeles-area people -- seven Palestinians and the
Kenyan-born wife of one of them -- whom the government has been trying to deport
since 1987.

Two are longtime legal residents, two more were recently granted that status,
and the others are eligible for legal residence because of family ties,
according to one of their lawyers, David Cole of the Center for Constitutional
Rights.

Support for radical group

Immigration officials say the eight are members or supporters of the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), a radical offshoot of the
Palestine Liberation Organization.

The Clinton administration, which inherited the 10-year-old case, argued that a
new federal immigration law stripped courts of their authority to review civil
rights claims from non-citizens facing deportation.

The judges dissenting from Tuesday's order agreed with theadministration, saying
the court lacked jurisdiction over the case.

The ruling "nullifies the express intent of the elected branches of our
government," said Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain, joined by Judges Alex Kozinski and
Andrew Kleinfeld.

Group won injunction

Facing deportation for alleged terrorist activity, the Palestinians won an
injunction from U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson on the grounds of selective
enforcement. Wilson said they had presented evidence that supporters of
U.S.-favored groups engaged in terrorism -- the Nicaraguan Contras, Renamo in
Mozambique and the mujahedeen in Afghanistan -- had not been deported. The
appeals court upheld the injunction in 1995.

Last year the government tried again under the 1996 immigration law, arguing
that courts no longer had authority to review immigration cases until a final
deportation order. The government also said it had new evidence that the
Palestinians were fundraisers and not merely supporters of the PFLP.

Justice Department official Carole Florman said the department would study the
order and consider its options. The only possible appeal is to the Supreme
Court.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 January 27, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PLAN TO DEPORT FELONS SIDETRACKED

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 772 words


The Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors late Monday yanked off today's
agenda a controversial proposal that would reduce jail overcrowding by allowing
federal immigration authorities to remove some non-citizen criminals from county
prison cells and deport them.

Supervisor Pete McHugh said he and the other supervisors misunderstood the
proposal, attributing the mix-up to miscommunication with prosecutors from the
district attorney's office and with corrections officials, who support it. He
said he discovered this in response to Mercury News inquiries.

Under the pilot program being proposed by federal and local law enforcement
officials, a small percentage of undocumented immigrants and legal immigrants
with permanent residence -- up to seven inmates a week -- would be referred to
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for possible deportation.

The county would start with the worst offenders -- those with prior convictions
for aggravated felonies -- regardless of what criminal charges they currently
faced. Eventually the program would expand to include other inmates.

But McHugh said that despite months of discussion, he and some of the other
supervisors were under the erroneous impression that the program would be
restricted to those aggravated felons currently charged with another aggravated
felony.

"I don't know if we should help deport someone who committed an aggravated
felony 15 years ago and is now in jail for a suspended license," said McHugh, a
member of the county's Law and Justice Committee. "It's just too sensitive to
proceed."

McHugh said the committee will re-examine the issue Feb. 19.

The postponement irked some law enforcement officials, who privately decried
what they said was politicization of the issue.

Earlier Monday, Assistant District Attorney Thomas P. Fahrenholtz defended the
proposal. "Our ideal case is Jack the Ripper who is in jail for driving with a
suspended license," he said.

Under the proposal, the district attorney's office probably would retain and
prosecute aggravated felons facing serious new charges. But aggravated felons
charged with minor crimes could be deported immediately, reducing the jail
population.

County corrections officials estimate it costs $22 million annually to imprison
non-citizens, who they say constitute about a quarter of the jail population of
4,800.

Although the federal government has long had the legal authority to deport
criminal non-citizens, the Border Patrol has previously lacked the personnel to
do so consistently in Northern California, especially San Jose, law enforcement
officials said. Responsibility for criminal non-citizens was transferred last
year to the INS, which is willing to redistribute resources to tackle the
problem, an INS spokeswoman said.

Federal law permits undocumented immigrants to be deported simply for being here
illegally. Legal residents, who have green cards, can be deported after being
convicted of an aggravated felony. But in reality, the government deports
relatively few because of the lack of personnel.

"It's kind of scandalous that nothing has been done here already about removing
non-citizen criminals, given the costs of having them in jail, prosecuting them,
defending them and putting them on probation," said Fahrenholtz, an advocate of
the program.

But immigrant-rights attorneys have raised concerns about the program, which
already is under way in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties. One worry is
that legal residents would be separated from their families and deported, even
if their prior conviction was for a relatively minor crime. That's because the
1996 federal immigration law expands the definition of "aggravated felonies"
from rapists, murderers and the like to include criminals such as thieves who
have served a one-year jail term.

"I think it's fine to deport people who commit sexual abuse of minors, murder
and rape," said Sara Campos, an attorney with the Lawyers Committee for Civil
Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area. "But there might be some crimes, like
theft, where the penalty of getting deported would be quite harsh, especially
when you have children who are citizens."

Local law enforcement officials, who are trying to avoid a jail overcrowding
lawsuit, say working with the INS is just one of many approaches they are trying
to reduce crowding.

The county's five jails were 129 percent above capacity Monday, with bunk beds
stacked three high in some areas. Currently, 24 of the state's 58 counties,
including Los Angeles, San Diego and Orange, are under court-ordered inmate
caps.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 31, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BESIEGED INS OFFICE GETS LIFT BIGGER STAFF TO HELP CHIP AWAY AT BACKLOG

BYLINE: EDWIN GARCIA AND BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 709 words


The San Jose immigration office, under fire for the slow pace of its operations,
is about to get a huge increase in staff to help it dig out from an enormous
backlog of citizenship applications.

The office will receive 24 new employees -- including 15 new hearing officers.
That represents a 63 percent jump in the number of officers assigned to process
citizenship cases at the San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose.

With a backlog of more than 50,000 cases, applicants must wait some 20 months
from the time they file for citizenship until they are granted an interview. Of
the 44 offices nationwide, Lofgren said, San Jose ranks 39th.

"I don't know if this will fix all the problems, but it's a step forward," said
Lofgren, a member of the House immigration subcommittee.

The South Bay's congressional delegation and immigrant advocates have been
lobbying the INS and the Clinton administration for months for the new
positions. Lofgren said she finally received word from the White House this week
that the additional staffing had come through.

The announcement was a welcome surprise to local INS officials, who have
repeatedly complained to Washington but have seen little results.

"Oh my word!" said an excited Lois Camille Chappell, head of the San Jose
office, which serves four counties.

"That's nothing but good news for the Valley and the constituency that we
represent," said Casey Beyer, a top aide to Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell. "Any
increase that benefits the services in that office are greatly appreciated. They
have less staff to do more work than any other office in the country."

The increase will also allow the office to hire nine new clerks to help process
applications. The office now has 24 officers and 17 clerks.

It will take several months before the new staffers can be recruited and
trained. And it was not clear when they would begin working.

Chappell said it was too early to predict how big an impact the additional
staffing will have at her office, which serves four counties.

Advocates for immigrants said they were pleased by the increase -- but expressed
doubt it would be sufficient to eliminate the backlog.

"Even though those additional resources are coming down, I think it still isn't
enough," said Richard Konda of the Asian Law Alliance in San Jose.

Teresa Gutierrez, of the Central Coast Citizenship Project in Gilroy, said the
15 new officers won't do it.

"For them to speed up the process and be able to be more efficient, it would
take 30 more people," she said.

Citizenship applications have surged nationwide, but the increase has been
especially pronounced in California.

In the past three years, applications in Northern California have increased
threefold, said Sharon Rummery, a spokeswoman at the INS district office in San
Francisco, which oversees the San Jose office.

There are many reasons for the increase. In California, many immigrants began
applying for citizenship after voters approved Proposition 187 in 1994. Worried
about an anti-immigrant backlash, they sought citizenship because they wanted
the right to vote.

The surge increased in 1996, when Congress voted to cut off public benefits to
most legal immigrants who weren't citizens.

The processing of cases slowed dramatically last year as the agency implemented
new procedures requiring more thorough background checks ofapplicants.

"Some people have been waiting more than two years" for the INS to process their
paperwork, said Roger Reguerin, a volunteer with Escuela Popular of San Jose, an
organization that offers English and citizenship classes.

Lofgren said she has been pushing for extra resources at the San Jose site since
she took office three years ago and began hearing numerous complaints from local
residents and business leaders.

At first, Lofgren said, she and other representatives asked for help through a
series of meetings, letters and personal pleadings with INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner and her top officials -- to no avail.

She took the request to a higher level last September.

"I was frustrated that I wasn't making progress, so I started complaining to the
White House," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: JULIE PLASENCIA -- MERCURY NEWS
As employees struggle with a staggering backlog of 50,000 cases, new applicants
for U.S. citizenship crowd the waiting room at the INS office in San Jose.
[980131 FR 20A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 5, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AT LAST! INS GETS BEEFED-UP STAFFING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 332 words


FOR years San Jose has been home to one of the worst bottlenecks on the road to
U.S. citizenship.

The local office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service takes nearly two
years to process citizenship applications and currently has a backlog of 50,000
cases. That's 50,000 people waiting for the right to vote and waiting for
government services that are available only to citizens.

By comparison, INS offices in San Francisco and Fresno take eight to 10 months
to process applications.

But things are looking up.

The INS is finally about to beef up the staff in its beleaguered San Jose
office. As soon as workers can be hired and trained, the office will have 15 new
hearing officers and nine new clerks to process applications. That is in
addition to the 24 hearing officers and 17 clerks now on staff.

With a 65 percent increase in hearing officers, the San Jose office will be able
to start whittling away at that stack of applications.

San Jose is not the only office that has been swamped with applications from
prospective citizens. After Proposition 187 passed in 1994, immigrants
throughout California who had lived in this country for years suddenly decided
to become citizens so they could vote.

In 1996, Congress cut off benefits to non-citizens as part of welfare reform,
touching off another wave of new applications. Santa Clara County officials
encouraged legal immigrants to become citizens so they wouldn't be forced off
the food stamp rolls, adding to the pressure on the INS.

South Bay lawmakers have complained about the staffing problems in the San Jose
office for years. We're glad that they finally got some action fromthe feds.

New citizens have always been a source of strength for this country, and for our
community. We should be doing all we can to encourage immigrants who have made
new lives here to take on the responsibilities, as well as the benefits, of
citizenship. Putting them on hold for two years is no way to do that.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 15, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. IMMIGRATION LAW KEEPS SPOUSES WAITING GREEN-CARD HOLDERS APART FROM
FAMILIES

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1448 words


Rafat Rob can hear his old neighbors whispering all the way from Amman, Jordan:

Why did he leave his bride behind when he returned to his job in America? No
good Muslim would leave his wife for so long.

But it isn't a lack of faith or an untrue heart that is keeping him apart from
his wife, says Rob, a computer programmer for a San Jose firm. It's U.S.
immigration law that stands between them.

Rob is one of thousands of immigrants -- many living in Silicon Valley -- who
have stumbled upon what they regard as a cruel, anti-family feature of the law:
Legal immigrants who return to their native countries and get married can't
bring their spouses to the United States right away.

They must wait. And wait. And wait.

Rob and others in the same predicament must stand in line with more than a
million other immigrants who have applied to bring their spouses or children to
the United States. With an annual quota restricting the number of green cards
for spouses -- roughly 88,000 were made available this year -- the wait could be
as long as 10 years.

"In the beginning, I really broke down," said Rob, who has packed away all his
photos of his wife because seeing her makes him so sad.

"In our culture, if you leave your wife, they think you have abandonedher," he
said. "I violated the holy rule. In our religion, Islam, if you are away from
your wife for more than six months, it's grounds for divorce."

What makes the situation unbearable, Rob said, is that spouses of green-card
holders aren't even allowed to enter the United States for brief visits. U.S.
embassies and consulates around the world are instructed to deny tourist visas
to people who have expressed their intention to immigrate, except in extremely
rare cases.

The rationale for the policy is simple, said Maria Rudensky, a State Department
spokeswoman: Spouses of immigrants are unlikely to leave once they get here.

The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that more than 40
percent of the 5 million illegal immigrants in the United States are people who
overstayed tourist, student and business visas.

Rob, 32, works for a company called KLA-Tencor, which makes machines that test
computer wafers and chips. He came to the United States 14 years ago on a
student visa. Since then, two companies sponsored him for employment visas. He
finally received his green card -- an INS document establishing permanent legal
residency -- two years ago.

His wife's name, Taheny, taunts Rob like a cruel joke. It means happiness in
Arabic, but she is so depressed that she has stopped writing him letters. She
can't think of anything cheerful to say.

Rob has seen her for only two weeks since they got married in May. Until her
visa is finally approved, he will be able to see her only for a few weeks each
year, when he returns to Jordan for his annual vacation.

Given the current waiting list, Rob figures it will be seven years before his
wife gets a visa. He could shorten the wait if he were to become a citizen,
which he intends to do. But he won't be eligible to apply for citizenship for
another three years, and it could take another two years after that for the INS
to process his application.

The prohibition on spousal visits seems especially unfair to Rob and others
because U.S. immigration laws are generally intended to keep families together.

For example, if Rob weren't a permanent U.S. resident -- if he were here only on
a temporary employment visa -- his wife would be allowed to live here with him.

And if they had married before he received his green card, they both could have
immigrated together.

The only unfortunate immigrants to fall under the prohibition are those who get
married to foreign-born spouses after they get green cards.

In Rob's case, he married the "girl next door" when he went home to Jordan in
May. At the time, he thought that she would be able to apply for a green card
immediately and join him in the United States within a year or so.

He has tried to explain the delay to his wife, her family and his own parents.
But none of them understands. They find the U.S. immigration system
incomprehensible, he said.

All they know is that Rob told them his wife could probably join him within a
year or so. And now he is telling them that it'll be a few years into the new
millennium.

His family, Rob said, feels like he misled them. And he feels like he has let
them down.

"You know how it feels when you're in an elevator and it free falls? Your heart
drops," he said. "I felt like an idiot. My wife, my family, her family -- they
are all so disappointed."

At first, the prospect of such a long separation made Rob so depressed that he
couldn't work. Then one day last fall he stumbled upon the Web site of the
Association of Professionals for Spouse Reunification, http://www.apsr.org . The
group, founded in 1996, has about 500 members, most of them engineers and
computer programmers. Twenty percent are from Silicon Valley.

The association, which argues that such long separations threaten even the
strongest marriages, estimates that 300,000 legal immigrants are in the same
situation as Rob.

Ever since he joined the group, Rob has spent two hours a day on the phone
lobbying Congress and anyone else who will listen, hoping to win support for two
bills the group is promoting.

One of the bills would increase the number of green cards made available to
spouses of legal immigrants each year. The other -- co-sponsored by Rep.
ZoeLofgren, D-San Jose -- would grant tourist visas to spouses of legal
immigrants so they could visit for a few months each year while they are waiting
for their green cards.

Canada and several other Western nations treat citizens and green-card holders
the same when it comes to bringing foreign-born spouses into the country, Rob
said. He contends that the United States should, too.

Rob said he often encounters lawmakers who aren't at all sympathetic. They
remind him that the United States must control its borders.

Sabu Ghazali, a Fremont resident who works at Chips and Technologies, is puzzled
by the lack of compassion.

"How can a country that is a champion of human rights have such an inhumane
law?" asked Ghazali, who got married during a trip home to India last year. He
doesn't expect to be reunited with his wife until 2007.

George Chen, a native of China, came to the United States after participating in
the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy demonstrations. He later married a Chinese
woman who was in the United States on a work visa.

She left the country on a business trip, Chen said, but the authorities wouldn't
let her back in because she is married to a green-card holder. It could take
seven years before she can immigrate.

"When everyone knows God intends husband and wife to live together, how can
anyone be so arrogant and apathetic to let this cruel separation routinely
happen?" asked Chen, a computer programmer for a Santa Cruz firm.

Such stories don't move Rick Oltman, an anti-immigration activist from Marin
County.

"They could be reunified with their spouses if they returned to their countries
of origin," said Oltman, Western regional coordinator of the Federation for
American Immigration Reform. "We're not holding them here against their will."

Bill Strassberger, an INS spokesman, said that implementing U.S. immigration
policies requires making some difficult choices.

"It's unfortunate that they are separated, but the number of visa petitions that
are pending forces us to have a preference system," he said. "It's sad, but it
is true."

Warren Leiden, a San Francisco attorney who served on the U.S. Commission on
Immigration Reform, noted that the panel recommended changing the rules so that
a greater portion of green cards would go to the spouses and children of legal
immigrants. But Congress never embraced the suggestion.

"The commission said the current waiting time is way too long," said Leiden, who
argued that the prospect of such a difficult separation encourages spouses of
green-card holders to enter the country illegally.

"What the United States is saying as a matter of law and policy is, either you
break the law and keep your family together, or you stay apart from your family
and obey the law," he said.

One reason the wait is so long, Leiden said, is that many illegal immigrants who
received amnesty under the 1986 immigration law have applied to bring their
spouses into the country.

That fact galls Rob, who said that he and others in his situation should not be
forced to pay the consequences when they followed all the rules.

"We are the honest but stupid," Rob said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Rafat Rob, front, has organized a group of people who, like him, were given
green cards but are now separated from their spouses, who could not immediately
join them because of U.S. immigration law.
[980215 FR 23A 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 10, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FAST-TRACKED EMIGRES FIT INTO SKEWED U.S. AGENDA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 436 words


IN Vietnam, U.S. immigration officials have opened an express check-in line for
a group of emigres who normally wouldn't even qualify for U.S. visas.

While the beneficiaries don't have compelling cases that qualify them as
refugees, they do fit into a skewed U.S. political agenda.

The Clinton administration, pressed by Republicans in Congress, is bending the
rules and fast-tracking the entry of up to 15,000 people previously
deniedrefugee status. Washington has told Hanoi: Let the applicants leave, and
we'll grant you better trade privileges. It's the wrong trade-off.

These are people who fled Vietnam after the war, then remained in Southeast
Asian camps. United Nations officials rejected their claims for resettlement
outside Vietnam.

When tens of thousands of Vietnamese were repatriated earlier this decade, as
enticement for good behavior the United States offered some of them the promise
of another shot at refugee status. But the agreement was to interview
applicants, not to expedite their emigration.

Rep. Christopher Smith, R-N.J., championed the cases of these leftover boat
people, and has persuaded the administration to go along. So now Immigration and
Naturalization Service officials are speedily interviewing in Ho Chi Minh City,
and granting an astounding 86 percent of the applications.

The United States and other Western nations have a tradition of offering refuge
to those fleeing persecution. But not everyone wanting out of a poor, formerly
war-torn nation has a claim to immigration.

This policy has several problems.

It is unjust. While economic migrants are boarding planes, many destined for
Silicon Valley, those who have suffered recrimination for their political or
religious beliefs or their roles during the war languish in prisons.

And the policy is unfair to visa applicants, particularly relatives of U.S.
residents, who must wait in years-long lines for permission to immigrate.

Worse, this odd policy sends the wrong message. In its about-face on this
program, the Clinton administration tells the throngs of would-be immigrants:
Wait and keep pressing your case; we may capitulate if admitting you serves a
political purpose for us.

The immigration of these non-refugees doesn't advance the U.S. interest in
Vietnam, or in Asia, nor improve the Vietnamese government. How much better to
press Hanoi for democratic reforms and an end to repression.

The United States has traditionally made room for victims of persecution,
alongside the world's tired, poor and wretched. Now, by bending the rules, it's
sullying an honorable tradition.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: CATHERINE KANNER

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 10, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT THROWS OUT IMMIGRATION-SEX GUILTY PLEA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The nine-year prison sentence of an immigration officer charged with soliciting
sex from women trying to enter the United States was overturned Monday by a
federal appeals court, which said he was misled into pleading guilty.

Before he accepted a plea agreement, Frederick R. Toothman was led to believe by
the trial judge and both lawyers that federal guidelines called for a sentence
of 10 to 16 months, said the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Instead, the
court said, he was given the same sentence he would have gotten for a jury
conviction on the most serious charges.

Because of the misinformation, Toothman's guilty plea was involuntary, and he
must be allowed to withdraw it, the court said in a 3-0 ruling, which allows him
to go to trial unless another plea deal is made. He has been in prison since
December 1996, a prosecutor said.

Toothman was an inspector for the Immigration and Naturalization Service for 10
years. He spent more than 20 years in the Navy and was decorated for combat
bravery in Vietnam, said his appellate lawyer, Charles Servilla. The charges
covered November 1991 to August 1994, when he worked at the San Ysidro station
reviewing appeals of people who had been denied entry.

He was charged with soliciting sex from eight women in exchange for helping them
regain their immigration papers, a felony civil rights violation. But the charge
was reduced to a misdemeanor, with any reference to sexual acts removed, before
Toothman pleaded guilty. He also pleaded guilty to seven bribery charges, which
specified that he had sought sexual favors.

U.S. District Judge Napoleon Jones told Toothman that the sentencing guideline
range was 10 to 16 months, though he noted that he could sentence outside the
guidelines in unusual circumstances; a prosecutor gave a similar assessment, the
court said.

But after getting a pre-sentence report from court staff, Jones used a much
higher guideline range, finding that the civil rights violation was based on
sexual abuse that carried felony penalties. He denied Toothman's request to
withdraw his guilty plea.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COURT: MOM'S DEPORTATION TO BE REHEARD

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 83 words


When a longtime illegal immigrant facing deportation claimed separation from her
U.S.-born children would be a hardship, immigration authorities said her
decision to leave her children was a "personal choice." The authorities were
wrong, a federal appeals court ruled Monday.

The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ordered a federal
immigration board to reconsider the case of Tomasa Salcido-Salcido and take into
account "the hardship that will result from family separation."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 17, 1998 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

ASIAN AGENCIES GET BOOST $85,000 IN GRANTS AIMED AT HELPING IMMIGRANTS GAIN U.S.
CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 632 words


Six Bay Area community organizations serving the Asian immigrant community have
been awarded $85,000 in grants from San Francisco's Asian Pacific American
Community Fund to support citizenship and naturalization services.

The Citizenship Initiative funds were raised by the Asian Pacific Fund in
response to the need created when Congress voted last year to cut off public
benefits to legal non-citizens. This move caused considerable panic among
elderly Asians.

The Asian Pacific Fund was part of the Northern California Citizenship Project,
a 12-county consortium of private and community foundations that received $5
million from Hungarian-born financier George Soros to help legal immigrants
become citizens. One requirement from Soros stipulated that organizations
receiving grants match them with funds solicited from local donors.

The agencies receiving grants are:

* Santa Clara County Asian Law Alliance with the Vietnamese Voluntary
Association -- $10,000 each to upgrade legal assistance outreach and citizenship
programs for the elderly. The Vietnamese Voluntary Association is lobbying for
waivers for the elderly who can't take the citizenship test in English so they
can take the exam in their own language.

* Asian Immigrant Women Advocates (AIWA) -- $10,000. AIWA, founded in Oakland 15
years ago, works with older, low-income Chinese and Vietnamese garment, hotel
and manufacturing workers. "Literacy, survival English and the rights and
responsibilities that citizens need to know are woven through issues in English
class," said Young Shin AIWA's director.

* Asian Law Caucus -- $10,900 to represent the disability waiver applications
and support social service programs for the under-represented Iu Mien and Hmong
highland Laotian communities.

* Asian Perinatal Advocates with the Lao Seri Association -- $16,500 to support
social services and preparation for INS interviews especially for residents in
the Tenderloin and Visitacion Valley. These highland Laotian communities are
especially in peril because of high illiteracy and dependence on public services
among seniors.

* Chinese Newcomers Service Center -- $10,000 to fund a coordinator position for
naturalization services and community education programs among Chinese and
Chinese-Vietnamese.

Slow to give

The United Way founded the Asian Pacific Community Fund in 1994 to develop and
capitalize philanthropy among Asians in the Bay Area. Although there are many
successful and wealthy Asians in Silicon Valley, they have been slow to
participate in philanthropic giving.

"Many leaders in the Asian community recognize that immigration is an important
issue which has a significant impact among the elderly, and they came forward to
support it," said Gail Kong, the fund's executive director.

One of the first major donors was Alice Hahn, president of Advanced Mobile
Solutions of Moraga. She gave the initial grant of $20,000, inspiring others in
the Asian community to contribute.

Hahn has since joined the board of the Asian Pacific Fund, which also includes
Jerry Yang, the 28-year-old co-founder of Yahoo, and former University of
California-Berkeley Chancellor Chang-Lin Tien -- the youngest and oldest members
of the board, respectively.

6 groups already active

Of the 19 agencies applying for assistance, the fund selected six that already
were involved in immigration issues. Because it is still relatively unknown
among local non-profit organizations, the first-time awarding of citizenship
grants has been its introduction to regional organizations.

"We were looking for agencies that were experienced in the communities they
serve," Kong said.

For the most part, the money will help elderly immigrants through existing
programs.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 4B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 17, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BOARD SET TO LIMIT DEPORTING OF INMATES

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1155 words


The Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors is set today to approve a pilot
program to allow federal immigration authorities to deport non-citizen criminals
from crowded county jails. But in response to pressure from a human rights
group, the board has limited the plan to only a handful of potential deportees a
day.

Only an average of 2.4 people a day would be referred to the U.S. Immigration
and Naturalization Service for possible deportation under a six-month pilot
project. The deportees would be legal permanent residents with "green cards" and
undocumented aliens who have been previously convicted of a serious "aggravated"
felony.

However, the county would not give the INS the names of many others -- up to 23
a day -- who are also eligible for deportation. These persons either were
convicted of less serious crimes or simply entered the country illegally.

"I think we're proposing a reasonable, responsible middle path," said Supervisor
Pete McHugh, who supervised the intense, behind-the-scenes dickering between law
enforcement officials and human rights groups over the program. "We have a
program that complies with federal law and provides safeguards for the people
involved."

If approved, as expected, the program would be far more limited than those
already in place in Southern California, where INS agents are based in local
jails and have access to the records of all foreign-born inmates.

Santa Clara County is one of only three counties in California where the jail
system is overseen by the board, not by the sheriff's department, giving the
supervisors the rare ability to tailor the program to their liking.

Under the pilot project, inmates who have committed previous aggravated felonies
and have been rearrested on any charge would be targeted.

The 1996 federal immigration law expanded aggravated felonies from rapes and
murders to include relatively minor crimes such as theft offenses that carry a
year in jail, and made it easier to deport inmates. Those with relatively minor
charges, such as traffic violations, would be turned over to the INS
immediately. Others would be deported after serving either usual or reduced
sentences.

Proponents, opponents

Proponents of deportation see it as a solution to severe overcrowding in the
county's jail system, which houses as many as 17,400 immigrant criminals each
year. But as proposed, the county's program would not significantly reduce the
inmate population, which was 24 percent over capacity Monday. Nor would it put
much of a dent in the $22 million the county spends annually to incarcerate
immigrants.

Human rights groups, including the Asian Law Alliance and the county Human
Rights Commission, are dissatisified with the proposal for different reasons.
They say it still doesn't go far enough to protect the rights of immigrants and
their families. Among other concerns, they fear that unless the supervisors add
explicit guidelines, an immigrant who committed a felony decades ago and was
arrested on a relatively minor charge such as a suspended license could be
deported, leaving his American-born family in the lurch.

"You could say that would never happen, but all things they say could never
happen, do," said James P. McEntee, director of the county's Office of Human
Relations.

In contrast, law enforcement officials want to see the program expanded
eventually. Some advocate the inclusion of all undocumented immigrants in jail.
Others want to target at least the average of 5.6 inmates a day who have
previously been convicted of crimes that fall outside the definition of
aggravated felony, such as multiple drunken driving offenses.

"As federal resources increase, we want to take action against as many people as
we can," said Assistant District Attorney Thomas P. Fahrenholtz.

INS beefing up in area

Currently, criminal immigrants are released after serving their sentences in the
county's jails. Although the federal government has long had the legal authority
to deport non-citizen inmates, it has lacked the personnel to do so consistently
in Northern California, especially in San Jose. Immigration agents now drop by
county jails only when they are notified that illegal immigrants are about to be
released. No one is stationed permanently at any jail in the 49 counties that
comprise the agency's San Francisco district.

But under a new federal program signed into law late last year, INS agents could
visit the jails regularly. The agency is beefing up its staff in the area.

The INS would not comment on the Santa Clara County proposal. But Fahrenholtz
said the agency is unhappy with the county's insistence on controlling its
access to the list of foreign-born inmates.

At one point during discussions over the proposal, when it looked as if the
supervisors would not approve even a modest program, District Attorney George
Kennedy asked local police chiefs to give the INS a list of all foreign-born
arrestees, Fahrenholtz said.

The proposal is a sharp departure from current policy, and human rights
advocates immediately warned it would breed mistrust and destroy community
policing programs, which depend on citizen cooperation. Kennedy backed off when
it appeared the supervisors would approve the current proposal.

Monthly monitoring

To make sure only the worst offenders are targeted, the board plans to monitor
the program once a month. Even Supervisor Don Gage, the most conservative of the
five-member board, said he agrees with human rights groups that the program
should exclude immigrants with criminal records dating back decades who have
committed minor offenses.

"If a person paid his dues years ago, I don't see any reason to persecute him,"
Gage said.

But unlike the advocates, Gage believes the program has built-in safeguards,
including the fact that people who commit minor offenses are often booked and
released before the INS would be able to target them.

Gage said he would not support expanding the program in the future, unless the
jails became so crowded that inmates had to be released early. He also opposes
deporting inmates who have no previous criminal record, but entered the country
illegally.

"Just because they're illegal doesn't mean they're bad," said Gage, whose mother
legally emigrated to Gilroy from Italy in the 1920s.

County-level control

Supervisor Joe Simitian said he would have supported a proposal that targeted
inmates convicted of a broader list of crimes than the aggravated felonies. But
he said he opposed giving the INS the complete list of inmates who identify
themselves as foreign-born when they are booked into jail.

Supervisor McHugh said the board wants to proceed cautiously because of what he
said was the immigration agency's record of "misconduct" in the region,
including heavy-handed workplace raids.

"I will continue to insist we do the initial screening of inmates," McHugh said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 18, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JAILS PLAN PUT ON HOLD IMMIGRANTS: A DEPORTATION PROPOSAL WILL GET ANOTHER TWO
WEEKS OF STUDY.

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 581 words


At the request of the human rights commission, the Santa Clara County Board of
Supervisors on Tuesday delayed approval of a pilot program to allow federal
immigration authorities to deport non-citizens from crowded county jails.

The supervisors voted 4-1, with Supervisor Pete McHugh opposed, to give the
commission two more weeks to review the proposed program. The supervisors also
plan to use the time to persuade the county's reluctant office of human
relations to help monitor it.

But the majority of supervisors -- McHugh, Joe Simitian and Don Gage -- said
they would approve the program March 31 despite the groups' reservations about
potential civil rights violations.

"I'm not likely to change my opinion," said Simitian, a proponent of the pilot
program.

Under the six-month pilot program, an average of 2.4 people a day would be
referred to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for possible
deportation. The potential deportees would be arrestees or inmates who were
previously convicted of a serious "aggravated" felony and who were undocumented
immigrants or legal permanent residents with "green cards."

However, the county would not give the INS the names of many others -- up to 23
a day -- who are also eligible for deportation. These are people who were
convicted of less serious crimes or simply entered the country illegally.

The county's program would be far more limited than those already in place in
Southern California, where INS agents are based in local jails and have access
to the records of all foreign-born inmates.

The limitations are opposed by proponents of deportation, who see it as a
solution to severe crowding in the jail system, which federal officials estimate
houses as many as 17,400 immigrants annually.

Assistant District Attorney Thomas P. Fahrenholtz urged the board to approve the
program. "I don't know if everybody is ever going to be happy with this," he
said. "We can't let it go on forever hoping that they are."

A majority of supervisors advocates starting with a limited program because of
concerns about potential abuses by the INS. Only those inmates who have previous
convictions for serious crimes defined as "aggravated" feloniesshould be
deported, not those who entered the country illegally and have been arrested for
the first time, according to the majority of supervisors.

But human rights groups, including the Asian Law Alliance, say even the limited
proposal fails to protect the rights of immigrants and their families.

The proposal calls for an immigration attorney with the office of human
relations to monitor the program and meet with potential deportees and their
families. But James P. McEntee, the office's director, said the attorney is too
busy helping welfare clients become citizens to participate. The office also
shares the concerns of the human rights commission about lack of legal
protections for targeted inmates.

"The problem is that the relationship between the immigrant community and the
commission can be destroyed if we cooperate with the INS," said Gertrude Welch,
the commission's vice chairwoman.

Supervisors Blanca Alvarado and Jim Beall also expressed reservations about the
program.

While Beall questioned whether it would save money or end up costing the county,
Alvarado said she is worried about inmates who are American citizens being swept
up by mistake. "For all our technology and upgrades, INS computers do make
mistakes," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 30, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEEDING CHILDREN MUST BE PRIORITY CONGRESS CONSIDERS RESTORING FOOD STAMPS FOR
LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 346 words


CONGRESS is on the verge of cancelling one of the cruelest provisions of the
1996 welfare reform bill, the one that took food away from poor children and
elderly people.

A Senate-House conference committee has agreed to spend $818 million over five
years to provide food stamps for legal immigrants under age 18 or over age 65.
Nearly a million people lost their food stamps last year, saving the federal
government billions of dollars that was used to finance welfare reform.

But it's one thing to sit in Congress and vote to cut benefits to non-citizens;
it's quite another to turn hungry children away from the local welfare office
without help. As it turned out, the states with the most immigrants, including
California, Texas and Florida, wouldn't stoop that low. So they bought food
stamps from the feds and continued to cover children and elderly immigrants.
California spent $35 million to help an estimated 286,000 people. Now it seems
the Department of Agriculture has found a way to save $818 million by making
changes in the way it runs the food stamp program. A bipartisan conference
committee has agreed to put that savings back into benefits. The food stamp
provision was tacked on to an agricultural research bill.

If this bill passes, California won't have to spend its own money to provide
food for kids, old people and certain refugees. In that case the state should
consider using its money to extend food stamp benefits to the fathers and
mothers of those kids, who are trying to work and feed their families.

There is a chance the food stamp restoration bill won't pass, though. Some
members of Congress have their eyes on that $818 million. They want it to offset
over-budget spending in the massive $217 billion transportation bill now under
consideration.

That must not happen. Lawmakers who are happily imagining new roads and transit
projects for their constituents need to stop for a minute and imagine instead
thousands of hungry children. Perhaps then they will keep their hands off the
food stamp money.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: NED LEVINE - NEWSDAY

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 31, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS AIDES AT WORK ON ASYLUM-SEEKERS LAW

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 80 words


Immigration officials are working on their problems enforcing a 1996 law that
made it more difficult for foreigners to seek asylum in the United States by
claiming persecution in their home countries, Congress' investigative arm said
Monday. A General Accounting Office review found as many as 20 percent of
Immigration and Naturalization Service employees may not be documenting whether
they followed all procedures in deciding whether to allow asylum seekers into
the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 1, 1998 Wednesday PENINSULA EDITION

BOARD OKS JAIL PLAN SANTA CLARA COUNTY: NON-CITIZEN CRIMINALS CAN BE REFERRED TO
THE INS.

BYLINE: TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 801 words


Over the objections of both federal immigration authorities and human rights
groups, the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday approved a pilot
program aimed at deporting certain non-citizen criminals from crowded county
jails. Only those who have previously been convicted of an aggravated felony
would be affected.

The supervisors voted 4-1, with Supervisor Blanca Alvarado opposed, to refer an
average of 2.4 inmates a day to the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
for possible deportation -- far fewer than the number eligible. The deportees
would be legal permanent residents with green cards and undocumented immigrants
who have been convicted previously of a serious aggravated felony and have been
rearrested on any charge. Aggravated felonies range from murder to money
laundering to a theft conviction that results in a one-year sentence.

However, under the six-month pilot program, the county will not give the INS the
names of others who are also eligible for possible deportation. These people --
up to 23 a day -- either were convicted of less serious crimes or simply entered
the country illegally.

The limited program was opposed by the INS, which wanted the county to provide a
list of all foreign-born inmates, and by human rights advocates, who said it
fails to protect the rights of immigrants and their families.

"We have been asked to consider two choices -- to look the other way or vote to
throw a broad net over every foreign-born inmate," said Supervisor Joe Simitian,
who voted for the pilot program. "This is an artful effort to balance competing
and legitimate interests -- public safety, jail costs, our obligation to comply
with federal law and due process rights."

But Alvarado and human rights groups ranging from the local Interfaith Council
to the county's Human Relations Commission and the Santa Clara County Legal Aid
Society said the INS should concentrate its resources on reducing the local
backlog of 58,000 citizenship applications, not on deportation. Alvarado also
expressed concern that U.S. citizens could be deported by mistake.

"According to a recent study by the U.S. General Accounting Office, 80 percent
of the INS files are incomplete or inaccurate," Alvarado said.

The INS, which late Monday faxed a statement to the board calling the limited
program "unacceptable," will participate now that the program has been approved,
said Charles H. Demore, deputy director of the San Francisco district, a
49-county area that stretches from Kern County to the Oregon border. The program
will go into effect by the end of April.

"I'm disappointed because I think the public supports the removal of more
criminal aliens, and that's the will of Congress," Demore said. "But it's a foot
in the door. (In) a year or two, we'll be where we want to be if the program is
expanded, and all this will be a moot point."

The board added two new features to the plan. It ordered the county social
services agency to provide information and referrals to immigrants and their
families, a role declined by the office of human relations because of its
concerns about the program. The board also is working with the Santa Clara
County Bar Association to set up a panel of attorneys who will provide free
legal services to targeted inmates.

The county's program will be far more limited than those already in place in
Southern California, where INS agents are based in local jails and have access
to the records of all foreign-born inmates. Five new enforcement agents will be
added to conduct the program in the San Jose area, which includes three other
counties -- Monterey, San Benito and Santa Cruz.

The limitations are opposed by proponents of deportation, who see it as a
solution to severe overcrowding in the county's jail system, which houses asmany
as 17,400 immigrants each year out of a total of 70,000 inmates.

The limited program would affect fewer than 1,000 immigrants annually, but
corrections officials said any population reduction would be helpful. The board
is studying other methods of reducing the jail population, including "direct
calendaring" of court cases, which would require judges to preside over all
stages of a case, from arraignment to sentencing.

The county will closely monitor the program to prevent anyone from being
deported who committed an aggravated felony decades ago and has been rearrested
on a minor charge, such as driving with a suspended license, officials said.

But the board stopped short of approving a provision discussed in a memo by the
county counsel that would limit the program to previously convicted aggravated
felons who were convicted after Nov. 18, 1988. That date was set by the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in a case interpreting federal immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 1B, Morning Final edition

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 10, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RIGHTS GROUPS BLAST INS DELAYS: GOVERNMENT SHOULD FOCUS ON CITIZENSHIP
APPLICATIONS, NOT GUARDING BORDER, COALITION SAYS.

BYLINE: ARIANA CHA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 556 words


A coalition of immigrant-rights groups Thursday warned that the U.S. citizenship
process has degenerated into a bureaucratic nightmare because too many resources
are devoted to border patrols, leaving regional offices understaffed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is juggling an all-time high of 1.7
million citizenship applications, about 57,000 of them in San Jose. The average
wait in Northern California has crept up to about two years, the longest in
history.

Renee Saucedo, executive director of the Northern California Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, said the INS should redirect resources away from guarding the
U.S.-Mexico border and into reducing the citizenship backlog. The border watch
-- dubbed Operation Gatekeeper -- has in recent years received boosts in
funding.

Regional INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said the agency has made significant
efforts -- including more than doubling the San Jose office's permanent staff --
to reduce the backlog but that Congress needs to allocate more resources to the
INS.

"Believe me, we want to be able to naturalize people in six months," she said.
"And we're doing everything we can. We have special backlog programs in place in
cities like San Jose: rehiring retirees and getting temporary summer workers.
We're 100 percent with the immigrant coalition."

Rummery said that making a dent in the backlog has become "THE priority" of the
INS this year. "There's a big push coming from the very top levels of our
government," she said. "We've gotten an increase in money, in people -- and
we've been told there's more to come."

Among the findings of a nationwide investigation by six immigrant rights groups:

* Applicants in identical situations are treated inconsistently and out of
chronological order. In one case in Los Angeles, a couple sent their
applications together, and while one was sworn in as a citizen a year later, the
other has not even received an interview date.

* Files and fingerprint cards are routinely lost. Compounding delays, many
applicants must be fingerprinted two or more times because their print cards
have expired while mired in the backlog. Although INS plans called for the
installation by last year of new, uniform software to track applications
efficiently through all offices, this goal has not yet been achieved.

* Disabled applicants wait longer than non-disabled ones. This has been a
special problem in San Francisco because INS officers have refused to
acknowledge requests for home-visit interviews.

The rush to apply for citizenship began in 1994 during the campaign for
Proposition 187, the initiative aimed at cutting off benefits to illegal
immigrants, and has continued ever since.

In Santa Clara County, none of the thousands of applicants among the 8,600
immigrants who lost federal food stamp benefits in September has been
interviewed -- although many filed their applications years ago. The INS office
is just beginning to process 1996 applicants.

"Immigrants' best dream has turned into a horrible nightmare," said Richard
Hobbs, who oversees the citizenship program for the Santa Clara County Office of
Human Relations.

INS' December move from its downtown office to a one on Monterey Road caused a
temporary increase in the waiting period, which had been about 18months in
November.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 28, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION POLICY REQUIRES A NEW AGENCY

BYLINE: DEMETRIOS PAPADEMETRIOU, T. ALEXANDER ALEINIKOFF AND, DEBORAH WALLER
MEYERS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 710 words


THE Immigration and Naturalization Service, responding to widespread criticism
of its performance, has proposed separating its service and enforcement
functions but retaining both, the third significant such reform proposal in five
years. A contending proposal, by the now-defunct Commission on Immigration
Reform, would dismantle the INS and distribute its functions to other
departments. We believe that the INS proposal does not go far enough, while the
commission's takes us in the wrong direction.

The politicization of immigration policy and frustration with INS performance
have been growing for more than a decade. Both proposals react to that but fail
to ask the most fundamental question: What is the system supposed to do, and how
should it be organized to do it?

We have developed an alternative proposal that starts with goals and principles
and develops structures to put them into practice. Immigration policy is top and
center of this structure.

The INS' self-conception is primarily as enforcer of laws that it often plays a
marginal role in formulating. At times, it is a victim of congressional
micromanagement; at others, it becomes a political football between the
administration and Congress. The executive branch generally reacts rather than
initiates.

We propose creating an independent agency within the executive branch to direct
the nation's immigration system. The new agency's core purposes would continue
to be complex: facilitating and controlling entry, enforcing the law and
delivering services, removing the deportable and naturalizing the qualified.

Various functions currently scattered among several federal departments -- such
as labor certification (Labor), visa, passport and most refugee and migration
functions (State) and refugee resettlement (Health and Human Services) -- would
gradually be consolidated under a single roof. Consolidation would follow a
simple rule: Unless the function (or part of it) falls within the central
mission of the department in which it is located, it should move to the new
agency.

An independent agency would be better prepared and situated to work with
Congress to construct immigration policies that are consonant with other
critical domestic and foreign policy priorities, from Social Security, welfare
and human resources to education, economic competitiveness and international
relations.

If congressional energy for fundamental reform falters, a second-bestalternative
would be to elevate the immigration function within the Justice Department
through a new position of associate attorney general for immigration. This
office would be charged with the formulation of immigration policy and the
coordination of its execution.

Under both scenarios, service and enforcement functions would be separated
within the agency. At the local level, separate immigrant service areas and
enforcement sectors would be established. These steps would lead to greater
accountability and better service for both immigrants and citizens.

The other options on the table are not up to the task. The INS plan would
neither improve policy coherence nor ensure that program delivery is consistent
with a policy's intent. Most important, it won't close the agency's credibility
gap. The commission's proposal would hinder coherent policy even more, handing
off to agencies with little institutional commitment to immigration the same
problems of accountability, management and poor service that have dogged the
INS.

No one lightly proposes creating a new agency. In 1970, President Nixon used
reasoning similar to ours -- that the importance of the environment required
that a single independent agency oversee it -- and created the Environmental
Protection Agency.

Circumstances call for another exception. If the immigration function is as
central to sound public policy across a variety of policy domains as we believe
it is, if accountability and consistency in program delivery are as weak as many
observers argue and if the service function is as much of a stepchild within the
INS as even the agency's friends acknowledge, then creating a new agency and
giving it the authority, resources and support it requires to do its job
properly becomes a compelling choice.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
The writers are with the international migration policy program of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace. They wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KNIGHT RIDDER NEWS SERVICE FILE PHOTO
Patrolling the border between the U.S. and Mexico is one of the many duties of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
[980428 ED 7B]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 29, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUP RACES INS FEE HIKE AD CAMPAIGN:CITIZENSHIP PROJECT PUSHES IMMIGRANTS TO
ACT BEFORE THEAPPLICATION COSTS SOAR 137 PERCENT.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 850 words


Fearful that a proposed 137 percent jump in naturalization fees will prevent
many people from becoming citizens, a coalition of immigrant advocacy groups is
launching a major effort to get immigrants to start the application process now.

The Northern California Citizenship Project, a 12-county consortium that has
signed up 25,000 immigrants in less than a year, plans to spend $110,000 for
ethnic minority television and radio commercials, ethnic minority newspaper and
magazine ads, bus signs and educational comic books promoting citizenship.

The ad campaign, set to start in late May or early June, will be funded by 26
private foundations, project director Lena Avidan said Tuesday.

Groups such as the Northern California Coalition for Immigrant Rights are
flooding the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service with letters urging the
agency not to boost the current $95 fee to $225. But most immigrant advocates
concede that the chances of INS officials backing away from the fee increase are
nil.

INS Commissioner Doris Meiss-
ner said in January that congressional mandates gave her little choice but to
raise fees to reflect the "actual costs" of providing services.

Richard Hobbs, director of Santa Clara County's citizenship program, predicts
that the fee will be increased in August or September. Hobbs, who said he bases
his prediction on conversations with INS officials, said he believes the
increase is a big mistake.

"Citizenship should be a process that is accessible to all people," Hobbs said.
"Low-income people in Santa Clara County can barely afford to make their rent
payments. If they can't afford to become citizens, they won't have the right to
vote."

The county has some money to help immigrants on public assistance pay fees, but
the amount is minimal, he said.

Voting rights will be a major theme in the educational comic books and other
pro-citizenship advertising, Avidan said.

"We're going to capitalize on the fact that there are a couple of important
elections coming up," she said. "We'll ask people, 'Don't you wish you could be
involved as a citizen rather than letting other people make your decisions for
you?' "

In her January announcement, Meissner pledged that she would not raise fees
until the INS had met its goals of improving customer service.

When that will happen is anyone's guess, considering that the lines at INS
offices around the country are the longest in years.

For the last 16 months, Santa Clara County has spent more than $1 million
getting 7,000 immigrants to sign up to become citizens, but not one has yet been
interviewed by a U.S. immigration official. The 21-month wait for an interview
at the San Jose office is the longest in the office's history.

Bill Strassberger, a spokesman in the INS' western regional office in Laguna
Niguel, said: "We have to do everything we can to improve service first. The
question is how fast can we do it."

Strassberger said the national park system and most federal agencies are moving
in the direction of making people who get government services pay the cost of
providing those benefits. The INS loses $1 million a day providing citizenship
and other services, Strassberger said.

But most immigrant advocates argue that the citizenship process should be
subsidized.

"Citizenship is something that helps us as a society," said Mark Silverman,
attorney with the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. "We should
be encouraging citizenship, not discouraging it."

Along those lines, Santa Clara County on Thursday will hold its second annual
"Free Citizenship Day," at which orientation sessions will be held in languages
ranging from Punjabi to Amharic to Farsi.

"We'll be doing 40 presentations in 16 languages," Hobbs said. "Not one county
comes close to that kind of outreach. . . . A lot of people think we're crazy."

Paying the $130 fee increase, immigrant advocates say, would clearly be a
hardship for many immigrants.

"Most of our clients make less than $12,000 a year," said Jane Yokoyama,director
of the Santa Cruz County Immigration Project. Many of the clients are Latino
cannery workers or farm laborers in the Pajaro Valley who have trouble paying
the $95 fee, she said.

When the project held four citizenship days in December and January, "half of
the people didn't have the money for the fee," she said, noting that the INS
recently tacked on a $25 fingerprint fee.

The INS does have rules for granting fee waivers, but exemptions are extremely
difficult to get.

"There are rules but no application forms to get a waiver," Yokoyama said. "I
don't know anyone who's ever gotten one."

Jenny Ocon, citizenship coordinator at the Northern California Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, agreed with Yokoyama's assessment. She said her agency is
urging the INS to formalize the waiver system "so that people can understand
it."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Proposed citizenship fee
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
[Chart not taken in database]

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: FREE CITIZENSHIP DAY
Santa Clara County's second annual "Free Citizenship Day" will be held Thursday
at the government center at 70 West Hedding St., San Jose. Free services such as
photographs and assistance in filling out forms will be available. For more
information, call the Santa Clara County Citizenship Program at (408) 299-2206.
Sessions will be held in the following 16 languages:
* English every hour from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.
* Vietnamese and Spanish at 10 a.m., noon and 2, 4, 6 and 8 p.m.
* Portuguese at 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.
* Hindi and Punjabi at 11 a.m. and 6 p.m.
* Tagalog at 2 and 7 p.m.
* Mandarin, Korean and Amharic at 5 p.m.
* Russian and Laotian at 6 p.m.
* Cambodian and Cantonese at 7 p.m.
* Arabic and Farsi at 8 p.m.
Source: Mercury News staff report

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 30, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UPGRADED INS OFFICE FOR S.J. ENDORSED MEASURE OFFERS BETTER STAFFING TO COMBAT
CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 869 words


In a move acknowledging Silicon Valley's surging immigrant population and the
nightmarish backlog at its immigration office, a powerful House committee
Wednesday voted unanimously to make San Jose's immigration office
"full-service."

Assuming that the plan eventually clears Congress and is signed by the
president, it will bring more employees and other resources to the besieged San
Jose office. In addition, immigration judges for the first time would be
stationed here so that Santa Clara County and central coast residents no longer
would have to travel to San Francisco to appear before a judge.

The measure passed the 35-member House Judiciary Committee on a voice vote,
meaning it probably faces no hurdles on the House floor, said Rep. Zoe Lofgren,
D-San Jose. She attached it as an amendment to a bill authorizing $20 billion in
spending next year for the Department of Justice.

Local officials and advocates for immigrants, who have been pushing for
"district office" status for the San Jose Immigration and Naturalization office
for almost a decade, were jubilant.

"This is great news," said Jane Yokoyama, director of the Santa Cruz County
Immigration Project. "I think the reason why we're so understaffed in San Jose
is because it was considered a sub-office. It's obvious we'll get more resources
in Silicon Valley, which has replaced San Francisco as the center of
immigration."

Wait now 21 months

Three of every 10 Santa Clara County residents are now foreign-born. Immigrants
who want to become Americans must wait 21 months for a citizenship interview.
The wait is so long that hundreds of naturalization applicants in San Jose are
now having to be re-fingerprinted because the FBI considers 15-month-old prints
out of date.

San Jose would become California's fourth INS district office, joining San
Francisco, Los Angeles and San Diego. The nation has 33 district offices.

The San Jose office, established in 1984 and one of the busiest in the country,
is now only a sub-office to the San Francisco office. The new district office
would also serve Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties.

Lofgren said it would give San Jose immigration officials more control of their
own destiny, since their office won't be a stepchild of San Francisco. It would
also mean that records for San Jose-area clients would be based here rather than
in San Francisco -- and that San Jose-based INS officers would be in charge of
monitoring international passengers at San Jose's airport.

"It would give us more control and allow us to better focus on our problems,"
said Lofgren, complaining that she had tried to get more resources to the San
Jose INS office, only to see them "slipping up to San Francisco. That wouldn't
happen."

Lofgren said she teamed up with a Republican Congress member, Ed Bryant of
Tennessee, who wanted to establish a district office in Memphis and a sub-office
in Nashville. The Lofgren-Bryant amendment also would establish a new district
office in Charlotte, N.C. The amendment authorizes $4 million for each fiscal
year for the new district offices.

Lofgren, a member of the House immigration subcommittee, was backed in her
effort by Reps. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell; Pete Stark, D-Fremont; Anna Eshoo,
D-Palo Alto; and Sam Farr, D-Monterey.

"In terms of the House of Representatives, we're in good shape," Lofgren said.
"What the Senate will do, I can't predict. But I can't imagine that anyone will
make it their business to try to undo it."

Officials in the San Francisco office have naturally been reluctant to let go of
San Jose.

But, Lofgren observed, it's up to Congress to say "when something is not
working. . . . I have yet to run into an office that admits it's grown too big
to be efficient."

David Still, assistant district director in San Francisco, expressed surprise at
Wednesday's vote. "I didn't even know it was up for discussion," said Still,
whose office oversees 49 California counties from Kern County to the Oregon
border.

South Bay officials have long argued that the INS delays in a valley that prides
itself on its work ethnic and efficiency are unacceptable.

"The county has waited so long for this to happen," Santa Clara County
Supervisor Blanca Alvarado said through an intermediary.

Eliminates drive to S.F.

Having immigration judges based in San Jose would be a welcome relief for many
immigrants, particularly for central coast residents.

"You shouldn't have to travel 2 1/2 hours to San Francisco to see an immigration
judge," said Casey Beyer, head of Rep. Campbell's district office.

Yokoyama said the distance has been a big problem for her clients, since many of
the best immigration attorneys in Santa Cruz and Monterey counties have young
children and are thus reluctant to travel regularly to San Francisco.

Jenny Ocon, citizenship coordinator at the Northern California Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, said she hoped that making San Jose a full-service office
would lead the San Francisco district office to allocate more resources to other
offices throughout Northern California.

"People in San Jose definitely have the longest waits, but everyone is
complaining," Ocon said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Lofgren
She said the changes would give S.J. more control.
[980430 FR 1A 4]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 8, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ACTIVISTS STRESS RIGHTS FOR ALL THEY MAKE PLEA FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigrants, documented and undocumented alike, deserve the same rights afforded
all people, activists from across the country seeking reforms in U.S.
immigration and refugee policy said Sunday as they closed a three-day
conference.

"There's a need for a broader human rights movement for people with or without
documents," said Cathi Tactaquin, director of the Oakland-based National Network
for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, one of the event's sponsoring groups. "We
can't have rights just for people with citizenship.

"Right now, the general public accepts the criminalization of immigrants and
accepts law enforcement measures regardless of how extreme they may be. But we
see them as violations of human rights."

People leave their home countries for a variety of reasons: Some move to be
reunited with family; others are fleeing deteriorating economic, environmental
or social conditions, Tactaquin said.

The U.S. government has responded with immigration policies that emphasize law
enforcement, she said, adding that "their tactics contribute to a climate of
fear, repression and discrimination against immigrants and people of color."

Another sponsoring group, Immigration Law Enforcement Monitoring Project,
presented a report documenting human rights abuses by the U.S. Border Patrol in
the Rio Grande Valley in south Texas.

Border Patrol agents have kicked, sexually assaulted and shot people suspected
of being undocumented, and these officers are not held accountable for their
actions because there is no effective system to review complaints against them,
the report said.

A phone message left with INS officials requesting a response to the allegations
was not immediately returned.

"As we sit here discussing defending human dignity, that very dignity is being
violated," said Nathan Selzer, coordinator for ILEMP, based in Harlingen, Texas.
"Someone is being abused. Someone's door is being kicked in. We need to
encourage them to document that abuse in order to bring about change."

The conference, held on the University of Southern California campus, followed a
recently released report by Amnesty International charging that some Border
Patrol agents have abused the people they've detained.

"There is credible evidence that persons detained by the INS have been subjected
to cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment, including beatings, sexual assault,
denial of medical attention, and denial of food, water and warmth for long
periods," the report found.

In a May 14 release, the INS touted its efforts to remove "criminal and other
illegal aliens."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 26, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO ENTRY FOR WITNESS TO ATROCITIES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 385 words


A Japanese World War II veteran barred from the United States for "crimes
against humanity" returned to Tokyo today after being turned around Thursday by
U.S. immigration officers in Chicago. Yoshio Shinozuka, a former member of the
infamous biological warfare group called Unit 731, had challenged the U.S.
Justice Department by boarding a United Airlines jet to Chicago, where he
intended to change planes for Toronto, the first stop on a five-city North
American tour about Japanese war crimes.

But immigration officers, along with reporters and camera crews, were waiting
when he landed about noon CDT at O'Hare Airport.

"Once it was determined who he was, he was put on the next available flight to
Toyko" about three hours later, said Bill Strassberger, an official of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Shinozuka, 74, became the first Japanese citizen since World War II to be barred
by the INS from entering the country because of alleged war crimes. The Justice
Department had determined Monday that he and Shiro Azuma, a former Japanese
soldier who witnessed the "Rape of Nanking" in 1937, were ineligible for
admission to the United States under a war-crimes act passed by Congress in the
late '70s. Canada also refused to admit the men.

Both had wanted to participate in a photographic and video exhibit sponsored by
the Cupertino-based Global Alliance for Preserving the History of World War II
in Asia. The exhibit will be in San Francisco from July 5 to July 19.

Shinozuka said he went to Chicago because it was his "last chance" to tell
Americans and Canadians about the horrors of Unit 731, which routinely dissected
live POWs and Chinese civilians during experiments. The 86-year-old Azuma was
reportedly too ill to travel.

Exhibit organizers, however, hope Shinozuka might return.

Ignatius Ding of Cupertino, the alliance's press liaison, said the group would
ask Minnesota Sen. Paul Wellstone and New Jersey Sen. Frank Lautenberg to
persuade Attorney General Janet Reno to reverse her decision denying him entry.

Takemitsu Ogawa, a former Japanese army physician who was stationed at a Beijing
military prison, is being allowed to accompany the exhibit. He is not scheduled
to come to San Francisco, but Ding hopes to persuade Ogawa to change his plans.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 18, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HELP ON THE WAY: CLASH TO GET MIDFIELDER ZICO;
STILL WAITING: BRAZILIAN NEEDS TO CLEAR IMMIGRATION, MIGHT PLAY SUNDAY.

BYLINE: CANDACE MURPHY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 679 words


In a shocking turn of events, something has gone right for the Clash in its
search for an international player.

Zico, the Brazilian attacking midfielder whom the Clash had been pursuing as its
fifth allocated International player, was officially signed Thursday by Major
League Soccer and assigned to San Jose.

The agreement - a loan of Zico from Division 1A Correcaminos of the Mexican
League to MLS with an option to buy - ends a month-and-a-half search for a
replacement for Mexican forward Daniel Guzman. Guzman played three games for the
Clash and then broke his contract and returned to Mexico. Before that, the Clash
spent nearly six months in a failed attempt to sign Mexican striker Carlos
Hermosillo.

"I'm a happy camper, a very happy camper, yes," Clash President Peter Bridgwater
said. "It's a delicate thing to announce until you are sure the INS (Immigration
and Naturalization Service) situation is resolved. It's an inappropriate thing
to announce that someone is going to work with you until they are acceptable to
the United States."

Zico, 29, whose real name is Milton Antonio Nunes, is in Mexico City as he
completes final immigration arrangements, but he could be with the team by
Sunday, when the Clash visits Tampa Bay.

Zico will join international players Arnold Cruz (Honduras), Michael Emenalo
(Nigeria), Istvan Urbanyi (Hungary) and Ronald Cerritos (El Salvador).

"He could possibly fly into Tampa Bay and be available for the Tampa Bay game,
but that's a slim chance," Bridgwater said. "If not, then he should be available
for next Friday's game against Colorado."

The terms of the loan were not disclosed, but MLS Commissioner Sunil Gulati said
Zico cost the league less than $100,000 to play for the rest of the season,
which ends in October. Should MLS exercise its option to buy out Zico's contract
from his club, the price tag is believed to be in the ballpark of $500,000.

As a point of reference, Soccer America reported recently that should another
league try to acquire international allocation Marco Etcheverry of Washington
D.C. United, MLS would ask about $3 million for the Bolivian. The Clash's Eric
Wynalda, who turned down a chance to play for Italian club Padova on loan this
spring, has an estimated acquisition price of $2 million.

"Is he very expensive? No. But Zico is an expensive player in relation to the
average player in the league," Bridgwater said. "He's as expensive as any of the
allocated players the Clash currently has."

Zico is 5-foot-9, 150 pounds with a flowing mane of golden hair similar to his
namesake, the Zico (whose real name is Arthur Antunes Coimbra) who starred on
Brazil's World Cup teams in the 1980s. The Clash's Zico turned professional at
16 when he joined the Rio de Janeiro club Flamengo. He also played with Guarani
and Bragantino in Sao Paulo and Internationale in Rio Grande do Saul before
moving to Mexico, where he joined Puebla in 1990.

Zico played three seasons with Puebla, helping the team to the Mexican First
Division championship in 1992. He then played for Celaya and helped the team to
the championship game against Necaxa in 1996. He joined Division 1A Correcaminos
last season.

Zico is expected to provide passes to the Clash forwards, currently a
combination of Cerritos, Jeff Baicher, Lawrence Lozzano and Christopher Sullivan
- and improve the team's firepower. And Coach Brian Quinn hopes the midfielder
will get through himself and score goals.

"He's got a good pedigree," said Quinn, who supervised Zico's training last week
in a visit to the Clash. "He's played in Mexico five years and he's a quality
player. I've seen some clips of him, and when he came here I was impressed with
his skill and how brave he is. When he gets kicked around, he gets right back
up. He doesn't get rattled by big, tough defenders."

ETC.:

Cruz, a defender, is serving a one-game suspension for his ejection from last
weekend's shootout loss to Tampa Bay, and defender John Doyle is serving a
one-game suspension for yellow-card accumulation.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 28, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS MISSING A KEY INGREDIENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 536 words


ONE night in mid-July, about 14 months after landing in the United States as
refugees, the Huynh family had rice for dinner. As a condiment, seven people
shared one bowl of tofu and lotus root. The bowl, about 6 inches across,
normally would be big enough to contain one serving of noodle soup in most San
Jose Vietnamese rrestaurants.

Often, the Huynhs have had so little food in the house, the parents have eaten
only rice so their five children could share the rest.

There was no logical reason why the Huynhs should have gone so hungry, even
given the difficulty of splitting $461 in food stamps seven ways. Several blocks
away, the Asian Pacific Family Resource Center was giving away fresh vegetables,
fruit, rice and other foods.

What the Huynhs lacked was a tiny bit of assistance: Someone who could explain
the food bank system to them. If they had understood how, they easily could have
signed up for a program.

Immigrants' sponsors should do this. Sometimes they do. When they don't, there
should be a way for immigrants to find out, in their own languages, about food
banks, health clinics or other free or low-cost non-governmental services. Yet
this information is not well distributed. Ignorance, timidity and lack of
English fluency can leave people like the Huynhs clueless for years.

The word needs to be spread in different ways -- printed and verbal; via mass
communication and personal counseling -- to help immigrants and refugees cope
with the dizzying patterns of government and non-government aid for the poor.
That's especially true as welfare reform kicks in, with confusing changes in who
will get government help and who will be suddenly on their own.

Fortunately, Santa Clara County is belatedly at work on a series of remedies.

Here's an example: When lawful permanent residents come into county food stamp
offices in August, they will receive a list of local food sources, such as food
banks, in Spanish and Vietnamese. Bilingual workers will explain the information
to people coming in to get their stamps that month. Had this service been in
place earlier, the Huynhs might have begun eating better months ago.

Readily accessible information -- in several languages -- on food banks is long
overdue. It could be life-saving to the 15,414 lawful permanent residents
(including 4,500 children) who are scheduled to lose their benefits under a
section of federal welfare reform that kicks in during September. The
information could also benefit people who have been denied food stamps. They
will be getting the bilingual notices by mail.

The county has just applied for a federal grant to pay for a more comprehensive
guide, in several languages, to community services. Ideally, county and
community services will use the guide to advise refugees and other immigrants
about where to look for help as the federal and county safety net shrinks.

Too bad the feds will require a couple of months to decide on the grant. People
like the Huynhs need the help now.

The more the county can help recipients of government aid find non-government
sources of help, the fewer people will get hurt when the government safety net
is no longer big enough to hold them.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: TIM BRINTON

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JULY 28, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT BRAIN-DRAIN COMPUTER FIRMS FORCED TO TAKE HIGH-TECH JOBS ABROAD

BYLINE: ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1150 words


The stream of immigrant engineers and computer scientists that nourished Silicon
Valley in the early 1990s is drying up -- sending companies scrambling to
construct research and development centers abroad.

Labor analysts say the changes are due to a number of factors, including
globalization of the computer industry, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service crackdown on companies that abused the U.S. visa system and the improved
political climate in several countries that provided large numbers of engineers.

Silicon Valley long ago lost its primacy in high-tech manufacturing, and now
companies are increasingly choosing to locate their research and development
shops in former Third World countries with lower labor costs. While the valley's
boom continues notwithstanding, this migration offshore is helping to create the
region's future competition.

"If you can't bring the brain power to you, you're going to have to go to them,"
said T.J. Rodgers, CEO of Cypress Semiconductors Corp., which has opened three
overseas semiconductor design centers since 1993.

As many as 40 percent of R&D jobs in the valley are now filled by immigrants,
according to industry estimates. But immigration by high-tech professionals
declined by almost three-quarters in Santa Clara County from 1992 to 1995 -- the
latest year for which statistics are available. This outpaced a national decline
of almost 32 percent.

Back up

Nationwide, immigration rebounded some the next year but still remained 15
percent lower than during the early part of the decade -- even as the number of
high-tech vacancies soared. Local figures are not yet available.

During the early decade, high-tech immigration increased even as overall
industry employment shrank during the California recession. While computer
electronics companies laid off production workers, brain-power-dependent
software companies grew. And many of the new programmers were immigrants.

But immigration has failed to keep pace since the recession's end, while
high-tech employment has surged by more than a quarter in California.

More than 1.1 million new high-tech jobs were created in the United States last
year, according to the Information Technology Association of America, and there
are now more than 190,000 vacancies. Worldwide, there are tens of thousands more
openings.

But the number of college degrees awarded in computer science fell 42 percent
from 1986 -- the year it peaked -- to 1995, according to the U.S. Department of
Education. In Asia and Europe, meanwhile, the number of science and engineering
degrees has risen sharply, driving employers out of the country to fill many
high-end vacancies.

With new telecommuting technology, computer scientists and engineers have their
pick of every company in the world.

"The talent pool is now on a global level, and the challenge to win employees
can be daunting," ITAA Vice President Amy Callahan said.

Shot up in '93

The U.S. influx of foreign engineers, technicians and computer programmers was
stable during the 1980s at about 20,000 a year. The number ballooned in 1993,
when immigration reforms made it easier for employers to import workers with
special skills, a new National Science Foundation report says.

The volume of immigrants also increased after 1992's Chinese Student Protection
Act, which was passed in reaction to the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre. During
1993-94, there was a one-time boom of several thousand Chinese engineering and
science students who were issued permanent visas under the act. Almost half of
the Chinese immigrants moved to the Pacific Coast, the report said.

But then in 1994, immigration fell sharply as the government began cracking down
on companies that employed highly skilled foreigners on a special visa while
paying them substandard wages.

Many high-tech employers already had concluded that the early decade's
immigration boom would be insufficient to make up for the growing demand for
highly skilled workers. Some are so worried that last year they and the ITAA
asked Congress to funnel money into educating more computer scientists and
engineers.

"We are in a crisis," Rodgers said. "The number and quality of workers we need
is at an all-time low. We can't expand as fast as we want to, and it's only
getting worse. Every company I know has several dozen -- if not hundreds -- of
unfilled desks."

The sharpest decline has occurred among computer specialists and mathematicians.
The number entering the country in 1996 was almost 21 percent lower than in
1993.

Increasingly, expansion-minded companies are farming out high-tech work to other
countries, including Singapore, Brazil and the United Kingdom. U.S. companies
spent $9.8 billion on R&D centers abroad in 1993 -- more than three times the
amount in 1980, according to an NSF survey.

In fact, R&D money spent overseas is growing faster than the amount invested
domestically and now accounts for one-tenth of all American R&D. With today's
faster and more-reliable networking technology, such foreign sites do not hinder
productivity as they might have in the 1980s.

Rodgers' Cypress has unveiled three design centers abroad in the past three
years and has one in Ireland in the works. Chicago-based Andersen Consulting,
which has four offices in Northern California, began aggressively opening
foreign software development centers in 1995.

And just last week, International Business Machines Corp. announced it will
spend $25 million over five years to open a global research unit in India.

IBM will build its Solutions Research Center in India by year's end, its eighth
worldwide, including labs in China, Switzerland, Japan, Israel and the United
States. IBM will also give $10 million in research grants to Indian
universities, the No. 1 computer maker said.

"India is an enormous, important, fast-growing region that's producing a lot of
technical talent," said Caroline Kovac of IBM Research. "Our view isthat you
have to be there early to build a presence."

Immigration has declined equally among professionals sponsored by their
employers and those who get their own visas. This suggests not only that
employers such as IBM are not importing as many employees but also that more
foreign engineers are choosing to remain at home.

Foreign employees may still like the higher wages and benefits that U.S.
companies offer, but given the choice, many prefer to stay in their homeland.

"I joined Cypress because it was one of the premier semiconductor companies . .
." said Shiva Gowni, 36, manager of the company's Bangalore, India, design
center. "But I enjoy being able to live closer to my family."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
High-tech immigration down
Entering Santa Clara County
Entering the United States
Source: Mercury News analysis of INS data by Beth Haller

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: page 1E
Bloomberg News contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Chart, Photo;
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
Shiva Gowni, right, Cypress design center manager in India, came to San Jose for
meetings. At left is Shailesh Shah, his local counterpart.
[970728 FR 16A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 2, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOUR CHARGED WITH SMUGGLING DEAF IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 155 words


Three people were arrested in California and one in Chicago on suspicion of
illegally smuggling into the United States deaf Mexican immigrants who were
forced to sell key chains and other trinkets, federal officials said.

In Los Angeles, Andreas Pfeiffer, Lalo Paoletti and Carlos Paoletti were charged
with smuggling deaf Mexican immigrants and harboring them at Pfeiffer's house.
The trio appeared Thursday afternoon in U.S. District Court, where a federal
magistrate ordered them held without bail, said Thomas Mrozek, a U.S. attorney's
spokesman. In Chicago, Pedro Santamaria, 32, was charged with conspiracy to
smuggle, harbor and conceal illegal immigrants, prosecutors said.

On July 19, 57 deaf Mexicans were found crammed into two apartments in Queens,
N.Y. They were forced to work up to 11 hours a day selling $1 trinkets and
threatened with beatings or being turned over to the INS, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 10, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MY COUNTRY 'TIS OF THEE

BYLINE: Compiled by Mercury News reporters.

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. 2F

LENGTH: 768 words


If you've been to downtown San Jose on the right day over the last few years,
you've undoubtedly seen the crowds of immigrants flocking to the old Civic
Auditorium for their naturalization ceremonies. It's a moving moment, with as
many as 1,000 or 1,500 people embracing their new country at once. But that
moment has been threatened by the government bean counters who worry about
liability. Seems as if the Immigration and Naturalization Service had a loosely
policed contract with the city to hold the big ceremonies on city property. The
city requires an indemnification from anyone using the convention center,
meaning that the users assume the costs of liability should someone fall and
crack his or her noggin. When the feds examined the language of their contract,
they decided they could not assume that responsibility. Because they are
self-insured, they don't want to pay for broken noggins either. That left an
impasse until the offices of Rep. Tom Campbell, R-Campbell, and Mayor Susan
Hammer stepped in try to fashion a compromise. We understand they've made some
progress: "We just got in a big circle and we said, 'Let's try to get the city
and the (federal) administrative clerk's office to work on some agreeable
language,' " said Casey Beyer, a Campbell aide. "I think we've resolved it. I've
got them all back on the same page talking."

NO ROOM AT THE INN

Elsewhere on the convention center property, it's worth pondering what is
happening with the Hotel East site, which was used last year for the Downtown
Association's winter skating rink. With the hotel market booming, we hear that a
number of developers are interested in the site. But although the agency has
prepared a request for proposals, it looks like redevelopment chief Frank Taylor
will sit on the site for the rest of the year. What's happening? Well, Taylor
told us that he wanted to give developer Lew Wolff a chance to finish his
planned addition to the Fairmont Hotel before another hotel comes on line. "I'm
closing the arrangements with Wolff, so I said I'd give him a period of time
before I bring in competition," Taylor told us. This decision isn't universally
popular: There are downtown boosters who argue that the city could miss the
market as developers build elsewhere. But Taylor seems unworried. "There's
always that danger," he said. "On the other side, you don't want to have two
hotels open at the same time."

THE WOBBLY DUCK
A few odds and ends: Are Mayor Susan Hammer's top aides making plans for life
after the Hammer mayoralty? You be the judge: Chief aide Gary Robinson is
leaving his San Jose condo and moving to San Francisco -- though he remains at
his City Hall post. And we're told that mayoral budget director Bob Brownstein
was a candidate for the deputy county executive's job that went to Alice Foster
. . . Meanwhile, there's more silliness on the name front: The Silicon Valley
Capital Club, which recently merged with the San Jose Athletic Club, has changed
the name of the graceful athletic club at Third and St. James streets. It's now
called "Silicon Valley Capital Club Athletics," which, of course, no one can
remember . . . Councilwoman Margie Fernandes may be on the defensive these days
as she tries to defend herself from an ethics complaint by council member David
Pandori. She's clung to the wholly unbelievable story that a poll conducted for
her last year was not a mayoral preference poll (despite language on the cover
sheet that indicated otherwise). But the Fernandes people are quietly
accumulating endorsements, dropping the names of committed backers. The latest:
ESO chief Tommy Fulcher, attorney Jim Towery, Cisco CEO John Chambers,
Assemblyman Mike Honda and Annie Dandavati.

FACE OFF
Nobody in the media is immune from mistakes -- least of all gossip columnists --
but KNTV Channel 11 had an unintentionally amusing blunder last Monday night
when it ran a piece on the growth of San Jose's downtown. It switched the
identities of Assistant Redevelopment Director Jim Forsberg with Planning
Director Jim Derryberry. When Forsberg talked, he was identified as Derryberry,
and vice versa. Their views didn't differ much. But insiders know that the
Redevelopment Agency and the Planning Department have not seen eye-to-eye,
particularly on such sensitive issues as the Jose Theater. (The Planning
Department has been far more sympathetic to preservationists.) "You're probably
one of the only people who would even notice that," said the good-natured
Forsberg when we called him about the miscue. "Maybe it'll endear me to the
preservationists."
*

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THE INSIDER

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Hammer
[970810 PE 2F 1]
PHOTO: Campbell
[970810 PE 2F 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 12, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

1,200 DIED CROSSING INTO U.S., 4-YEAR STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: MICHAEL GRACZYK, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


Nearly 1,200 people died from 1993 to 1996 trying to cross illegally into the
United States from Mexico, and the journey is getting riskier as authorities
plug the most common routes, according to a study released Monday.

Drowning was by far the most common cause of death, accounting for 851, or 72
percent, of fatalities.

"If the intent of current enforcement operations . . . is to make the crossing
more difficult, then clearly it has become more dangerous," the study by the
University of Houston's Center for Immigration Research concluded.

The study, titled "Death at the Border," is the first to attempt to count the
number of people who die trying to cross the 1,600-mile boundary, said Nestor
Rodriguez, the center's director.

Researchers examined death certificates and consulted medical examiners, fire
and police departments, Border Patrol offices, Mexican officials in border
towns, county and city clerks, and funeral homes.

Their figures, which they called conservative, found that 1,185 undocumented
migrants died from 1993 through 1996, or 293 annually.

The Texas-Mexico border was the deadliest for a state, with 844 fatalities, 92
percent of them by drowning in the Rio Grande.

The deadliest county, however, was San Diego County with 193 deaths during the
four-year period, primarily from auto-pedestrian accidents and drownings in the
Tijuana River.

"What we do find is the method of enforcement has influenced how and where
migrants die," Rodriguez said. "Fencing along the (highway) median in San Diego
redirected would-be crossers to more treacherous entry points, resulting in a
sharp increase in environmental deaths in the more mountainous area east of San
Diego."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Nestor Rodriguez and Jacqueline Hagan of the Center for Immigration Research on
Monday present their study, which found that crossing the U.S.-Mexico border has
become more dangerous.
[970812 FR 5A 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 16, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO SPURNS STATE PRISON PLAN PRIVATELY RUN JAIL WOULD HOUSE DEPORTED FELONS

BYLINE: RICARDO SANDOVAL, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 558 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Citing legal and political realities, Mexican officials Friday dismissed a
California proposal to build a privately run prison in Mexico that would house
deported criminals.

State justice officials are said to be pushing for a jail that could take in
some of the 2,000 to 4,000 undocumented Mexican immigrants serving time for
felonies committed in California. James Nielsen, chairman of the state's Board
of Prison Terms, said that the idea "was catching fire" and that Mexican
government officials he had contacted said they "liked the concept."

The prison board put the concept on paper in a $17,000 study it commissioned
with a business professor at California State University-Sacramento. Yet it
appears there was no official Mexican participation in the planning of a jail
within its borders.

Bursting the balloon
Mexican officials blasted Nielsen's plan as a trial balloon with no hope of
floating.

"No one is talking about this here. There have been no proposals brought to
anyone in Mexico City," a senior official in Mexico's Foreign Relations
Department said Friday. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
Nielsen's plan showed little understanding of Mexicans or Mexican law.

"The concept of privately run jails is not even accepted in Mexico," added Janet
Brussi, spokeswoman for a federal agency assigned to protect the rights of
Mexicans abroad.

A privately run jail -- constructed with money from a foreign government --
would require negotiations between federal officials in Washington, D.C., and
Mexico City, and then a vote by the Mexican congress. Mexican states are not
allowed to accept direct foreign aid, officials said.

But while overcrowding is a problem in Mexican jails -- as it is in California
-- Mexican officials said they don't need help in dealing with returning
convicts. Jailed Mexicans are regularly deported from the United States, Brussi
said, and criminals serving time for felonies must finish their sentences in
Mexican jails in their home states.

Still, U.S. and California officials are entertaining Nielsen's idea.

The U.S. attorney in San Diego is interested. The plan has drawn additional
interest from the secretary of California's Youth and Adult Correctional Agency.
And the head of the state's prison officers union also favors a private prison
in Mexico, even though he opposes the thought of private prisons in California.

"It makes sense," said Don Novey, president of the California Correctional Peace
Officers Association. "It lets individuals go to their homeland to serve out
their sentences at a great cost savings, and justice prevails."

Support from other states
Officials in Arizona and New Mexico say they support the concept as well,
whether the project proceeds as a multi-state, international consortium as
envisioned by Nielsen, or along the lines of individual state compacts with
Mexico. Arizona is already pursuing a project along the latter framework.

But even Arizona's pursuit has amounted to little more than musings from north
of the border -- going back a year or so -- that have never been put into any
proposal for Mexico's consideration, Brussi said.

"I don't think it's a good idea," added Cesar Lajud, Mexico's consul general in
San Francisco. "We have our own judicial system. You have your own. That's it."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 21, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

AID CUTOFF NEAR FOR NON-CITIZENS

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 520 words


Social service agencies throughout the Bay Area are scrambling to notify
thousands of legal immigrants of food banks and other sources where they might
find food after Aug. 31. That's the day food stamp and Supplemental Security
Income benefits for many non-citizens will dry up after an agreement hammered
out by the Legislature two weeks ago.

Under new federal welfare-reform measures, legal immigrants ages 18 to 65 -- an
estimated 120,000 of them living in California -- will lose food stamp and SSI
benefits beginning Sept. 1.

On Friday, the first anniversary of the announcement of President Clinton's
welfare reform, the Coalition for Immigrant Rights plans a 5 p.m. rally outside
the Federal Building in San Francisco to protest the cutoff.

Advocates hoped they would get at least partial restoration of those benefits
through state funds. But under a state budget compromise reached Aug. 7, only
children and the elderly will receive benefits; others are effectively cut off.
In Santa Clara County, 4,600 children will retain food stamp benefits, but
10,840 adults will not.

Leaving out adults who need benefits is neither fair nor logical, argued Renee
Saucedo, executive director of the immigrant rights coalition.

"We shouldn't be drawing lines between citizens and non-citizens," she said.
"Priorities are upside down when the survival of the elderly and young is
threatened. We have enough to take care of everyone."

Gov. Pete Wilson, who brokered the compromise, said the state shouldn't be using
its money to replace benefits the federal government has denied. The compromise
does provide support for children and the elderly, the "most vulnerable" of
those affected by federal welfare reform, he said.

The most obvious solution for many of those cut off is U.S. citizenship, but
that can take time.

Richard Hobbs, director of citizenship and immigration programs in Santa Clara
County, said 8,975 out of the 10,840 adults no longer eligible for food stamps
could become U.S. citizens. Once naturalized, they could resume getting
benefits. But Hobbs estimated that the total U.S. backlog of 1.4 million
applications would take at least 24 months to process.

"For those 1,865 adults without the citizenship option, the possibility of food
stamp restoration is not even a blip on the possible horizon," Hobbs added.

That's why Milagros, a 32-year-old Mexican woman hiding from her abusive husband
in a San Francisco shelter, is scared. She has five children, ages 18 months to
13 years. Her husband was deported to Mexico for attacking and threatening to
kill her, and the only help she receives is food stamps and Temporary Assistance
for Needy Families -- formerly known as AFDC -- for her two youngest children,
who were born in this country.

Returning to Mexico is not an option for her.

"Life is harsh and there is no work," she said. Besides, her husband would kill
her if he found her. Her plan is to work as a house cleaner or cook, but as a
single mother with five children and no English skills, it's daunting.

"As long as I can find work, I can manage," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: AUGUST 23, 1997

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 8/23/97, pg. 2A)
An article in some local sections Thursday concerning cutoff of federal welfare
aid to non-citizens Aug. 31 overstated which benefits would be lost. Legal
immigrants who have been receiving Supplemental Security Income since before
Aug. 22, 1996, will continue to receive those benefits for up to seven years.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 23, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POPE'S SERMON ATTACKS BARRING OF IMMIGRANTS HE PRAYS AT TOMB OF ANTI-ABORTION
FRIEND

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Pope John Paul II chastised Western nations Friday for their crackdowns on
immigration, declaring that the world's wealthiest nations have a moral duty to
care for the needy -- no matter what their nationality.

"Who is my neighbor? The neighbor is every human being, without exception," John
Paul told hundreds of bishops from around the world and about 6,000 others
packed inside Notre Dame Cathedral for the beatification of a lay charity
worker.

"It is not necessary to ask his nationality, or to which social or religious
group he belongs. If he is in need, he must be helped," the pontiff said.

In Paris for the celebration of a Catholic youth festival, John Paul also set
aside time Friday for a private visit to the grave of a friend: a French
geneticist who crusaded against abortion.

The pope spent 12 minutes praying at the tomb of Jerome Lejeune, who in 1959
discovered the defect that causes Down's syndrome, and later emerged as a fierce
opponent of abortion.

All reporters and cameras were banned from the pope's visit to the cemetery at
Chalo-Saint-Mars, about 40 miles southeast of Paris, where he was joined by
Lejeune's relatives, and the pope made no comment about abortion.

But abortion-rights groups and the French Socialist Party spoke out against the
visit, the most hotly debated aspect of the pontiff's four-day visit.

"Such a step can only provoke uneasiness," the Socialists said in a statement.
It "risks encouraging in our country the determination of those who are leading
a battle marked by intolerance."

Vatican official Joaquin Navarro Valls sought to play down any controversy,
saying the pope made the visit "for one reason only: personal friendship."

Earlier in the day, the 77-year-old pontiff used his homily at Notre Dame
Cathedral to challenge rising political pressure in Europe, the United States
and elsewhere to crack down on immigrants.

During a three-hour ceremony beatifying Frederic Ozanam, a step just short of
sainthood, John Paul noted that as the founder of the St. Vincent de Paul
Society, a charity active worldwide, Ozanam took up the cause of "those with no
one to care for them."

Several European governments, including France, are wrestling with the emotional
question of what society owes immigrants.

In France, the far-right National Front party has gained ground with calls to
expel immigrants, blaming them for rising crime and unemployment.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Pope John Paul II presides at Mass in Notre Dame Cathedral. Friday's
beatification celebration honored Frederic Ozanam, a 19th-century French layman
who founded the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
[970823 FR 7A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 AUGUST 23, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY SHOWS RELIGIOUS FAITH GROWING AMONG AMERICANS

BYLINE: DAVID BRIGGS, Associated Press

SECTION: RELIGION & ETHICS; Pg. 3E

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


THE UNITED STATES not only retained its religious vitality over the past
century, but the children and grandchildren of immigrants have increasingly
joined the ranks of the faithful, two new studies indicate.

The percentage of Catholic, Jewish and unaffiliated Americans who believe in
life after death has jumped substantially from the generation born in the first
decade of the 20th century to the generation born in the 1970s, according to one
study.

A separate international study shows that less than 1 percent of Americans are
what the study calls "hard-core atheists," people who do not believe in God or
the possibility of life after death.

Sociologist Andrew Greeley of the University of Chicago, who was involved in
both studies, told a recent meeting of the American Sociological Association in
Toronto that the vibrant "marketplace" for religion in the United States has
boosted the faith of succeeding generations of immigrant families.

"In a competitive religious marketplace like the United States," Greeley said,
"the clergy must work hard at what they are supposed to be doing: preaching a
message of hope in the face of the tragedies of life."

In the international study, Greeley and Wolfgang Jagodzinski, a sociologist from
the University of Cologne, examined findings from the 1991 International Social
Survey Program to compare data on atheism and belief in 17 countries.

What they found was a wide range of beliefs related to social attitudes toward
religion and levels of religious competition.

In East Germany, for example, where the former Communist government mounted an
effective anti-religion campaign, the percentage of people who did not believe
in God and rejected the possibility of life after death was 42 percent.

Even in two relatively highly religious societies, competition proved to be
significant.

So Catholics in Northern Ireland, where there is fierce competition with
Protestants, were more likely to attend Mass regularly and to believe in God,
heaven and hell than Catholics in the Republic, where the faith has a near
monopoly.

The United States, where several religious groups compete intensely for members,
had an almost negligible percentage of non-believers. Only 0.8 percent said they
did not believe in God or the possibility of life after death. And just 3.4
percent of Americans were considered even among the "softest-core" atheists --
those open to the possibility of God and life after death.

In the study presented to the American Sociological Association, Greeley
examined data gathered from 19,381 respondents interviewed from 1973 to 1994 in
the General Social Surveys conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at
the University of Chicago.

To get a picture of how beliefs have changed through the century, he divided the
responses by generations, factoring out differences between older and younger
respondents that would be solely attributable to age.

In his analysis, Greeley found no statistically significant differences in
church attendance or belief in God this century.

Where there was significant change was in belief in life after death, which
Greeley calls perhaps "the most central of religious doctrines because it
asserts, in the face of substantial evidence to the contrary, that there is
purpose and grace in the human condition."

About three-quarters of those surveyed born in the first decade of this century
said they believed in life after death, compared with 81 percent of those born
in the '70s.

Where the significant gains came from were the Catholic and Jewish believers,
who had large numbers of immigrants earlier in the century. For example, the
percentage of Catholics who believe in life after death rose from 68 percent for
those born at the turn of the century to 84 percent for those born in the 1960s.
The percentage of Jewish believers in life after death rosefrom 24 percent to 40
percent.

Rabbi James Rudin of the American Jewish Committee said it seems reasonable that
later generations of immigrants would be more likely to delve into deeper
theological questions.

The first generation of Catholic and Jewish immigrants, he said, was preoccupied
with the earthbound concerns of getting jobs and supporting families.

But as their comfort level rose in later generations, they could devote more
time to theological speculation about the next world.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  AUGUST 29, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BALANCE THE TICKET WITH HISPANICS

BYLINE: WILLIAM A. RUSHER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 542 words


TWO important strategic impulses are, or at least seem to be, colliding in the
Republican Party these days.

One is the effort to appeal more strongly to voters of Hispanic ancestry. In
three major states, Hispanic-Americans constitute a critical fraction of the
electorate: Florida, where Cuban-Americans were overwhelmingly Republican during
the Cold War, and California and Texas, where Mexican-Americans vote heavily
Democratic.

The other is the drive to resist illegal immigration far more effectively than
is now the case, and to slow legal immigration until the recent huge intake of
new immigrants can be "digested."

The trouble is that the vast majority of illegal immigrants, and a substantial
fraction of new legal immigrants, are either Mexicans or citizens of other
Central American countries. The fear, therefore -- and it is not, at first
blush, an unreasonable fear -- is that if the GOP insists on identifying itself
as "the anti-immigration party," it will permanently alienate the biggest and
fastest-growing political bloc in the country.

Now, it is indisputably important for the Republican Party to attract Hispanic
voters -- and, for that matter, Asian voters, too. Politics in a pluralistic
society absolutely requires it. So in California it is plain, at least to me,
that every Republican state ticket ought to have an Hispanic and an Asian name
on it. And yet, to get back to immigration, there is no doubt that Gov. Pete
Wilson's Proposition 187 on the California ballot in 1994 (which sharply limited
welfare benefits to illegal aliens, and won handsomely) damaged the GOP in the
eyes of many Hispanic voters.

What to do? My old friend Paul Gigot, writing in the Wall Street Journal, growls
that "the reaction of the GOP's Pat Buchanan-National Review immigrant-bashers
to all of this is to dismiss all Hispanics as hopeless Democrats" and stiffen
immigration laws to keep more of them from pouring in.

But in fairness, I don't think that is what National Review, or even Pat
Buchanan, is saying, and certainly not what they need to say in order to justify
immigration reform.

If an idea is sound -- and, in the opinion of many, immigration reform is long
overdue -- then abandoning it solely because it is thought to be politically
risky is one test of the difference between a statesman and a mere politician.
Proposition 187 damaged the GOP not because immigration reform is an untouchable
issue, but because it was poorly presented to the Hispanic community.

Hispanic-American voters are not all that different from the rest of us. Polls
have established that they are firmly opposed to illegal immigration. Moreover,
the overwhelming majority of them want their children educated through the
medium of the English language.

It is venal ethnic politicians who want to keep Hispanic-Americans in
Spanish-language ghettos where they can be voted Democratic like herds of sheep.
And it is the greedy lobbyists of the National Education Association who want to
spend millions on bilingual education.

Nominate Hispanic-American Republicans who will speak the truth to their fellow
Hispanics, and watch the votes roll in. With even a husky minority of Hispanic
voters, the GOP would be unbeatable.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
William A. Rusher is a Distinguished Fellow of the Claremont Institute for the
Study of Statesmanship and Political Philosophy.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICA DESERVES COMMITMENT

BYLINE: PEDRO C. MORENO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 407 words


I WANT to be an American. In fact, I recently filed my application

for naturalization. I am not just seeking U.S. citizenship; I want

to become an American.

Why would I "renounce and abjure all allegiance"

(as the oath of allegiance to the United States requires) to my

country of origin, thus creating a permanent division between myself and

family, friends and the land of my birth, to become an American? Why not

just get the best of both worlds and continue as a legal resident, while

maintaining a foreign citizenship in case I decide to go back? After all,

most rights afforded by the American system are enjoyed by foreign residents.

Or why not become an American but remain a Bolivian -- a Hispanic

American -- so I can keep my "identity?"

The reason is that America

deserves better from its immigrants. And making that commitment is good

for immigrants themselves. If we are going to live here and benefit from

all that America has to offer, then let us make this our home. Let us unpack,

not just our luggage, but also our minds. Let us seek not just rights

but also responsibilities.

The continued viability of the United

States may largely depend on the attitudes and choices of its millions

of unassimilated immigrants and other ethnic groups (residents and

citizens alike). Many of us are eager to assimilate and become fully integrated

into the larger society. Some may be undecided, others confused and

still others opposed to it.

But if we are to finally assimilate, we will

also need all the encouragement we can get from other Americans. Unless

welcomed and accepted, we will continue to live as aliens, even after

becoming citizens. A reciprocal process is needed, where immigrants mingle

freely with the rest of society, and where Americans actively welcome

them.

We immigrants need to "arrive." The word "arrive" literally means "to come to
the shore." That is what assimilation is all about.

Once we are here, no more double-mindedness, no more dual national allegiance.

America should be unified by the American idea (democracy, freedom

and justice for all), the Protestant ethic (hard work and self-reliance)

and the English language.

My decision to seek American citizenship

is the result of careful and lengthy deliberation. I cannot change

the color of my skin and I need not change my name. But I can and in

fact have made up my mind. I want to be an American.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Pedro C. Moreno is international coordinator for the Rutherford Institute, a
religious civil liberties organization based in Virginia.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CITIZENSHIP FEE HIKE PROTESTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The cost of becoming a U.S. citizen would more than double under a draft Clinton
administration proposal that is drawing fire from advocates for immigrants.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has forwarded to the Justice
Department a plan to raise a range of fees, including hiking the current $95
citizenship application to $200 or more.

The Justice Department, the INS parent agency, has yet to approve the proposal,
which would have to undergo a public comment period before it could take effect.

Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill., chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus'
immigration task force, denounced the proposed fee increases.

He said the INS has no business increasing fees paid by the public when agency
backlogs are causing applicants to wait two or more years to become citizens in
some cases.

"It's a pretty clear example of the government providing terrible service at a
higher price to its customers," Gutierrez said in an interview Wednesday,
terming the proposal insulting.

The INS had no comment Wednesday but faxed an August statement saying fee hikes
"are under review within the administration, and it would be inappropriate to
comment until the review has been completed."

The current fees have been in place since mid-1994.

The National Council of La Raza, the nation's largest Latino advocacy group,
predicts fee increases would discourage people from applying for citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 SEPTEMBER 8, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW BORDER POLICY HASN'T DENTED FLOW OF IMMIGRANTS EFFORTS TO CATCH PEOPLE
MERELY SHIFT FARTHER EAST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 484 words

DATELINE: EL CENTRO


A federal border control policy costing hundreds of millions of dollars was
founded on one assumption: If the illegal path into the United States is more
difficult, fewer will try it.

But nearly three years after Operation Gatekeeper began along the
California-Mexico border, hordes of immigrants cross every day east of San Diego
County, in desert heat or freezing rain.

They are dodging Operation Gatekeeper's muscle by taking greater risks and
paying higher fees for a promise to sneak into the United States.

"You're not going to deter them because they know they can cross 1 million times
and all they need is to beat us once," said Border Patrol agent John Bryant, who
works in El Centro, 130 miles east of San Diego.

Additional money and equipment have begun to reach the sleepy towns of El Centro
and Calexico in the Imperial Valley, areas overrun with undocumented immigrants
who chose not to cross at the heavily guarded area near San Diego.

"In the past, we had no desert crossing during the daytime," said Randy Clark, a
supervisor with the Border Patrol's prosecution unit in Imperial County, who
works out of the El Centro station. "Now we're seeing organized smuggling in
groups crossing at high noon."

Migrants report smuggling fees of up to $1,200, nearly three times the amount
that crossers were paying to sneak into San Diego prior to Operation Gatekeeper.

Midday temperatures reach 120 degrees in El Centro. Strategists for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service believed the summer heat, winter frost
and difficult terrain would discourage crossers who had already trekked hundreds
of miles from their hometowns in central Mexico to the U.S.-Mexico border.

Earlier this year, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said she envisioned a border
control policy so intimidating that migrants would not attempt the journey.

But in California that logic has been blown away by statistics.

With one-tenth the number of agents as the San Diego Sector, the Imperial Valley
logged four times the number of detentions last month.

On a single day last month, agents in Imperial Valley detained a record 773
illegal immigrants, 75 percent more than on the same day in 1996. Agents working
the 72-mile line that separates Imperial County from Mexico arrested 19,216
immigrants in August, the highest total ever.

In all, 64 migrants have died this year attempting to cross the
California-Mexico border. According to Mexican officials, 13 of the 17 migrants
who perished last month were crossers in the Imperial Valley.

Virginia Kice, INS spokes woman for the Western Regional Office, said Operation
Gatekeeper's architects knew the policy would create new hot spots as migrants
discovered alternative routes.

"They anticipated a shift in traffic. Whether anyone foresaw the dramatic shifts
we've seen, for example, in El Centro, is difficult to say," Kice said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Bryant helps hold a cooler as an undocumented immigrant drinks water after a
group was apprehended recently in the Yuha Desert, where the temperature was 116
degrees.
[970908 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Border agent John Bryant takes in a group of undocumented immigrants after a
helicopter spotted them hiding in the desert.
[970908 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 9, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EXPERTS FEAR SPLITS ON RACIAL, INCOME LINES GROWTH LIKELY TO BALKANIZE
CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1434 words


Demographers expect 21st-century California to become increasingly balkanized as
it grows -- with three major population areas split between rich and poor, young
and old, native-born and immigrant.

By 2040, the increasingly pricey Bay Area will boast a population that is whiter
than the rest of the state and almost a quarter senior citizens. The sprawling
Central Valley will be three times more crowded by mid-century and home to a
proportionally high number of school-age children. And Southern California, at
almost 60 percent Latino, will be an even stronger magnet for immigrants.

"California overall is getting more diverse," said Elias Lopez, a demographer
and economist with the State Library's research bureau. "But people with similar
backgrounds are clustering in certain areas: places like Los Angeles, which is
becoming less diverse and more of a Latino base; and some rural communities in
the Central Valley, which are already almost 100 percent Latino; and some
suburbs that are more than half Asian."

Demographers caution that this scenario, derived from the latest projections by
the Demographics Research Unit of the state Department of Finance, is only their
best prediction. Still, they expect the upcoming population boom to drive the
state's politics, housing prices and job market -- even fuel debate about
whether the California of the future will be cut into several smaller states.

Foreign immigration and domestic births are expected to add about 15 million
people to California's population by 2020, once again producing the nation's
fastest growth rate. The projected 2020 head count -- 47.5 million, up from 32.6
million today -- is expected to be larger than the combined sizes of the two
next most populous states, Texas and New York.

But only 10 percent of the growth is expected in the Bay Area. Instead, most new
residents will cluster in Southern California, the Central Valley and the
foothills.

As a result, the Bay Area's fast and furious recent growth is expected to become
a relative crawl. The nine-county region -- a popular destination for new
Californians since the end of World War II -- will become among the
slowest-growing in the state.

Outlook for Bay Area

That is not to say that the Bay Area will be exempt from California's population
boom. With 1.5 million more residents by 2020, it will share the rest of the
state's growing pains -- the housing crunch, choked highways and overcrowded
schools.

And although the Bay Area's percentage of minority residents will be less than
that of Southern California and the Central Valley, it will remain one of the
most diverse areas in the nation -- with significant populations of whites,
Asian-Americans, Latinos and blacks. And as a majority-minority community, the
Bay Area will continue to have more in common with other parts of California
than with much of the rest of the United States.

"The percentage change may be less here but the impact of the growth on people's
lives will be greater," said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for the
Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto.

"Riverside, for instance, is a much less dense county. They have more tools at
their command than the Silicon Valley, which is built up -- and already
experiencing congestion problems."

On the other hand, the Bay Area stands to lose some political clout. By 2040,
the Central Valley is expected to become the second most populous region,
switching places with the Bay Area.

By then, the state could command as many as 77 seats in Congress but most new
representatives would come from other parts of the state. And as soon as 2020,
Santa Clara County will be knocked from its spot as the fourth-largest county to
sixth largest -- as San Bernardino and Riverside double their populations. San
Francisco County will plummet from 10th largest to 15th.

Slow growth in Marin

While California overall is predicted to experience a growth spurt of almost
half by 2020, Santa Clara, San Mateo, Alameda and San Francisco counties will
grow by less than a quarter. And growth in Marin County is expected to come to a
virtual standstill, rising by only about 100.

About half the state's gain will be due to immigration. The rest will come from
domestic migration and births.

Los Angeles County -- which should grow by almost 3.4 million by 2020 -- will
draw most of the Latino immigrants. The Inland Empire and Central Valley are
predicted to attract many domestic -- mostly in-state -- migrants. The natural
increase in the Latino population -- the total number of births minus deaths --
will be five times larger than the natural increase among non-Hispanic whites,
Lopez said.

Much of the predicted balkanization will be due to economics, demographers said,
as poorer immigrants are forced to live where the cost of living is lower. So
despite the Bay Area's spectacular climate, sophisticated culture and rosy
employment outlook, more and more families will choose to settle elsewhere.

"People from both in and out of the country tend to hit the urban areas first,"
said demographer Mary Hein with the Department of Finance. "Then they fan out to
farther-out, more suburban types of counties, where housing is more affordable."

An aging population will be another factor contributing to the Bay Area's
predicted lower growth. With fewer residents of child-bearing age, there will be
fewer births. In Marin County, for instance, deaths will exceed births in the
coming years, Hein said.

In addition to the social ramifications of geographic separation of haves and
have-nots, the population shift could have severe economic implications here.
Analysts warn that it could be difficult for Silicon Valley companies to expand
when there are few affordable places to live nearby.

"Businesses will have difficulty operating," said Paul Fassinger, research
director for the Association of Bay Area Governments. "It's hard for people to
live here. Wages are bid up. There's congestion. People tend to be less
productive when they have to travel a few hours to work and then all they have
to look forward to is driving a few hours back."

Under San Jose's so-called greenline urban growth boundary, the city will allow
only 51,000 new homes to be built over the next 25 years. Much of the rest of
the Bay Area -- especially San Francisco -- is physically constrained from
growing.

Cut off

"We are cut off everywhere by mountains, but in Southern California they can
expand as much and as far and wide as they want to," said Marty Woodworth,
assistant director for Economic Development for San Jose.

Proposals to raze single-family homes and commercial buildings to make room for
denser housing have been unpopular, but Fassinger said city governments could
have to reconsider these options in the future.

Fassinger said city planners will have to work hard to balance the demand for
more housing with a decent quality of life:

"You don't necessarily want unbridled growth. One of the attractive things about
this area is the nice living environment."

State and federal analysts have different projections for the population growth.
The state Department of Finance projections show a slightly more rapid growth
than the ones from the U.S. Census Bureau. The state predicts a population of
47.5 million in 2020; the federal government, 45.3 million.

CHART:
.......................................................................
1997                                2020
County           Population  Rank                    Population  Rank
.......................................................................
Los Angeles      9,488,200     1                     12,795,100    1
San Diego        2,724,400     2                      3,851,100    2
Orange           2,659,300     3                      3,282,300    3
San Bernardino   1,587,400     5                      3,095,800    4
Riverside        1,380,000     6                      2,914,700    5
Santa Clara      1,653,100     4                      2,016,800    6
Sacramento       1,140,600     8                      1,739,200    7
Alameda          1,375,900     7                      1,660,200    8
Fresno             776,200    10                      1,505,500    9
Kern               628,200    14                      1,220,300   10
Contra Costa       879,200     9                      1,188,300   11
Ventura            716,800    12                      1,023,100   12
San Joaquin        535,400    15                        920,900   13
San Mateo          701,100    13                        827,400   14
San Francisco      778,100    11                        816,300   15
California      32,383,000                           47,507,000
Mercury News
[Rank numbers for 2020 are located on the first map above]

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart, Maps (4);
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
POPULATION GAIN
California growth: past and future
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
[Population gain 1997-2020]
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
POPULATION GROWTH RATE
[Since 1974]
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
[Population growth rate 1997-2020]
Source: Mercury News analysis of data from the California Department of Finance
Demographic Research Unit
CALIFORNIA GROWTH: PAST A

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 12, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOZENS ARRESTED: INDEBTED WOMEN FORCED INTO PROSTITUTION. S.J. LINKED TO
SEX-SLAVE RING

BYLINE: RAOUL V. MOWATT, JEORDAN LEGON AND TRACEY KAPLAN, Mercury, News Staff
Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1458 words


U.S. and Canadian authorities have taken into custody about 50 people suspected
of participating in an international sex-slave ring that imported young women
from Southeast Asia to San Jose and other North American cities.

Officials in both countries said Thursday the organizers profiteered from the
women's wishes to leave their homes in such countries as Malaysia and Thailand,
then forced them to perform acts of prostitution with hundreds of men.

The group's leaders allegedly required the women to become sex workers in San
Jose, Vancouver, Los Angeles and Toronto to pay off as much as $40,000 in debts.

Authorities estimated the ring made as much as $2 million to $3 million a year
in Canada alone. Officials said the crime syndicate may have tendrils in other
cities and countries and are seeking to make more arrests.

Detectives said a series of raids Wednesday shut down a brothel on Pearl Avenue
in the Blossom Hill area of South San Jose, in addition to ones in Toronto and
Vancouver.

Those raids completed an undercover investigation -- dubbed "Project Orphan" --
that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service launched about a year ago.

Collectively, the women were arrested in connection with about 750 charges
related to prostitution and forgery of immigration documents. The alleged
Toronto madam, 33-year-old Wai Hing "Kitty" Chu, faces 135 prostitution-related
charges in Canada.

In San Jose, police and INS agents arrested an alleged madam and detained five
alleged sex workers in what officials described as a high-volume brothel.

The case has appalled police and representatives from human rights groups, who
described the sex-slave trade as a growing problem.

"It confirms some of our suspicions about the import and exploitation of young
women from other countries to be used for prostitution," said Lt. Phil Beltran
of the San Jose Police Department's vice unit.

"It confirms some of the information that we got in the past that it's more than
individual operators who perform this. There may be an international conspiracy
to get these individuals into North America," he said.

Julie Su, an attorney with the Asian Pacific American Legal Center of Southern
California, said the trade of Asian women as sex slaves is a problem that's
getting worse as women are recruited from rural villages and duped into
prostitution.

Estimates of the number of women working as prostitutes in Thailand or ferried
across its borders range from 100,000 to more than 2 million. The Chulalongkorn
University in Bangkok puts the number at 200,000; Human Rights Watch/Asia has
said there are at least 800,000 women.

In recent years, an increase in the number of women and children taken into and
out of Thailand from neighboring countries has coincided with the spread of the
AIDS virus. Today, more than 70 percent of the prostitutes in some Thai
provinces are HIV-positive, according to health researchers.

"We're just looking at the tip of the iceberg," Su said, when told of the latest
busts in San Jose and Toronto. "It's the most horrible type of human rights
violation and it's happening to very, very young women."

In San Jose, authorities arrested the alleged madam of the home at 3723 Pearl
Ave., 52-year-old Theresa Ha Garcia, on suspicion of pandering, residing in a
house of prostitution and maintaining a house of prostitution.

Garcia was being held Thursday evening on $20,000 bail at the county's
Correctional Center for Women in Milpitas. She declined a request for an
interview, said Rick Kitson, a Department of Correction official.

The INS detained five other women on visa violations and may move to deport
them: one 30-year-old Thai; another Thai whose age was not given; two
20-year-old Malaysians; and a fifth woman who was later released for lack of
evidence. Beltran said it was unclear if any would face prostitution charges.

Many details were unclear as authorities continue to examine the case. Beltran
said he did not know how long the San Jose home had been in operation.

But Inspector Ben Soave, head of the investigation for the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police -- Canada's FBI -- said Thursday the international investigation
began last August after a tip to INS officials in Buffalo, N.Y.

In some cases, the women came from poor families and may not have known they
would have to prostitute themselves, Soave said. Then they were told they owed
$15,000 to a recruiter in their home country and $25,000 to a madam in their new
one. The women were not allowed to keep or save money until they paid off the
recruiter -- something that could require as many as 350 sex acts.

From then on, the women were allowed to keep half the money from each trick,
Soave said. The other half went to the madam to pay off the remaining $25,000.

"The women were sold like a commodity," Soave said. "They were movedfrom city to
city and were not allowed to leave the brothel without an escort."

Soave did not disclose details of the Mounties' undercover investigation. But
Beltran said San Jose police came to be involved independently.

On July 1, San Jose police received an anonymous report of prostitution at the
Pearl Avenue home. Beltran said detectives started watching the home and
obtained a search warrant about five days ago. They tied their search to ones
conducted by the Mounties and the INS on Wednesday.

About 3:30 p.m. Wednesday, 14 San Jose police officers and three INS agents
conducted the search. Even at first glance, one thing separated the home from
others in the residential district: The windows were blacked out, preventing
passersby from looking in.

Once inside the house, they found a living room that had been set up like a
waiting area, Beltran said. Authorities also found eight men they suspect of
patronizing the brothel, but none has been charged with a crime. Beltran called
them "very, very cooperative" in helping police determine what went on at the
home.

The home had three bedrooms. Beltran said each of them showed telltale signs of
belonging to a brothel: a single mattress on the floor, piles of clean and dirty
towels and a fishbowl of condoms.

Police said the prostitutes, who were in their 20s and also lived at the home,
seemed healthy. "It looked like they were being well-cared for, almost like
property," Beltran said.

The lieutenant said: "It looks like -- and this is my opinion from being there
-- they went more on volume. Basically they would just rotate (customers)
through. . . . It would put (the women) on a long clock."

Sometimes, attorney Su said, women are held captive in rooms where they are
watched by guards around the clock and forced to submit to abuse ranging from
beatings to threats of arrests or deportation.

"Here in San Jose a lot of contact was made by the madam of the house going out
and contacting actual customers," Beltran said. "She basically said she had
girls if they wanted girls. She gave the address and they came."

In Toronto, authorities arrested nearly 40 women Wednesday and confiscated about
$165,000 in Canadian money ($115,000 in U.S. currency), Soave said. The women in
Toronto were moved frequently from one luxury high-rise apartments to another,
Soave said. The syndicate was operating out of three such apartments at the time
of the bust in Canada on Wednesday, he said.

Soave said the group may have operated a brothel in Los Angeles also. A Los
Angeles police official said late Thursday that he was unaware if a raid had
been conducted.

A San Jose attorney said he knows of about 10 houses of prostitution. That
figure does not include some massage parlors that serve as fronts for
prostitution, said the lawyer, who requested anonymity.

The attorney said he had knowledge of the houses because some of his clients are
"johns" and because he had personally visited -- but not as a patron -- five
houses of prostitution.

Local brothels are clandestine because South Bay vice squads are more vigilant
than their counterparts in such cities as San Francisco, the attorney said.

Clients sit and sip tea or beer before paying about $120 to visit prostitutes,
many of whom are from Thailand and Laos, the lawyer said.

"They are extremely beautiful -- young, tall and beautiful. They are beautiful
as models. They look like they are happy. And they make good money," he said.

The brothels are based in houses or condominiums, and their operators escape
police detection by moving often, the attorney said. These houses rely on a
network of known clients, who know the addresses and people.

"They are in such high demand that you just cannot imagine," the attorney said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 24A
Mercury News Staff Writers De Tran and Kristin Huckshorn contributed to this
report.

GRAPHIC: Maps (2), Photos (3);
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Captives' route
[Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore - U.S. and Canada]
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Alleged brothel [Pearl Ave., San Jose]
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE -- MERCURY NEWS
San Jose police staked out this house at 3723 Pearl Ave. and arrested the
alleged madam. Five other women were detained by the INS.
[970912 FR 24A]
PHOTO: Garcia
Arrested and held on suspicion of running brothel.
[970912 FR 1A 2]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Toronto police officers help a woman out of a police van late Wednesday night
after the officers raided suspected brothels where young women were held as sex
slaves after being recruited in Asia.
[970912 FR 1A 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 14, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOUTH GETS NEW WAVE OF CATHOLICS IMMIGRANTS TAKE BAPTISTS IN N. CAROLINA BY
SURPRISE

BYLINE: MARY OTTO, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: CLINTON, N.C.


Sometimes history can take a person by surprise.

Back in 1990, the Rev. John Williams was toiling away at sleepy little
Immaculate Conception Church as pastor to the far-flung Catholics of three
counties in tobacco country, fewer than 300 souls in all. In diocesan
headquarters up in Raleigh, there was talk of phasing out his job.

Then the Mexican and Guatemalan and Honduran workers started coming. And coming.
And staying. Now Williams is pastor to at least 2,500 people. Other churches are
growing, too.

Driven by economic problems south of the border, and drawn by a boom in steady,
if low-paying, jobs in the tobacco fields and food-processing plants, immigrants
have settled in rural North Carolina by the tens of thousands. Most are Latino
and Catholic.

Their arrival here in this deeply Baptist state has amazed Catholic priests,
nuns and lay people who have worked and prayed here in relative isolation for
years.

"It's a huge wave of history taking place in North Carolina," says Williams, in
a quiet voice, characteristically tinged with a mixture of exhaustion, laughter
-- and awe. "We barely know what to make of it."

Of course, the story of American religion is a story of diaspora, of spirits
moving, scattering, gathering. Faiths have confronted waves of new believers all
along. Nineteenth-century Catholics came from Europe with their own priests,
pooled their nickels and built great churches in Philadelphia and St. Louis and
San Francisco.

Chicago had five St. Michael's churches, one Polish, one Italian, one Slovak,
one Lithuanian and one German. Protestants did the same kind of thing. The
churches, temples, synagogues and mosques of immigrants served not only asplaces
of worship, but as ethnic community centers, shrines of culture and custom.

Churches take different approaches to the strangers in their midst. Some go out
and evangelize. Others greet them, while making sure nothing changes at church.
Still others throw open their doors to the strangers, knowing full well that
life at church will never be the same.

Nearing 60, Williams is struggling with Spanish. His colleagues and parishioners
say that what he lacks in fluency, he makes up for in dedication.

"There was no community here five years ago," he says, looking out over the flat
land where mobile homes cluster on former farm fields. "This was all raising
corn. Now it's raising people."

There are about 70 densely populated mobile-home parks in the parish. A single
mobile home can hold a half-dozen young Latinos, who do little more than work,
sleep and send money home.

The old country store, called O'Quinn's Variety, seems to have been transported
to a country road somewhere in Chiapas. Its parking lot is populated by families
in patched-up cars, young Latinos waiting six deep at two pay phones, and
Latinas selling dresses in the pink shade of a crape myrtle tree.

The priest started out just ringing a bell in the mobile-home parks, and saying
Mass in Spanish. Now he's gotten help from the diocese to do
marriage-preparation classes and social work. He's added bilingual Masses on
special feast days and four Spanish Masses each weekend.

One is a field Mass offered at a simple table set under three great trees. The
trees grow on six acres of land donated by a nearby turkey-processing plant. The
spot has been named La Posada Guadalupana, the Virgin of Guadalupe's inn.

The new faithful bring a stoic work ethic as well as the predictable problems
with language and poverty and immigration laws.

Williams doesn't ask whether they are legal. That's not the church's job, he
says. What he is here for is their faith, a faith steeped in history and a
calendar of saints, rooted in the home and in homeland shrines.

The pastor can't replace the shrines, but he helped organize the feast-day
procession honoring the Virgin of Guadalupe. It was an amazing sight, winding
through the middle of Clinton, past the courthouse, with its Confederate war
memorial.

Not every immigrant seeks out the Catholic Church. All across the state, says
Tom Tweed, professor of religion at the University of North Carolina, churches
of various denominations are holding Spanish services and evangelizing in
Spanish radio broadcasts. "They are competing for religious consumers," Tweed
says.

After the field Mass at La Posada Guadalupana, Williams' parishioners sell
tamales to make money for their new church. But right across the road, the
Baptists already have built a Latino church, on land also donated by the turkey
plant.

Don Gordon, senior pastor of the First Baptist Church in Mount Olive, can't
conceal his satisfaction that the Catholics are far behind. "They are trying to
keep up with the Joneses," he says.

In Newton Grove, the next town over, the Episcopalians just added a sacramental
component to their long-established social ministries. Besides providing legal
referrals, after-school programs and assistance with citizenship, a
Spanish-speaking Episcopal priest now offers Masses and organizes soccer games.

And in Dunn, farther up the road, the folks at Gospel Tabernacle Pentecostal
Holiness Church have put up a big sign reading "La Casa de Esperanza," the house
of hope. They've hired a Costa Rican minister to preach to their
Spanish-speaking flock of two dozen and to muster new believers at Wal-Mart and
Food Lion.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN TAM -- KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
The Rev. John Williams talks with worshipers after a Spanish field Mass at La
Posada Guadalupana near Mount Olive, N.C. Williams' "parish" has grown from 300
to 2,500 since 1990.
[970914 FR 27A]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 16, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHANGE CRITERIA FOR IMMIGRANTS, STUDY ADVISES RAND REPORT: THE U.S. IS ACCEPTING
TOO MANY PEOPLE WITH POOR JOB POTENTIAL.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Too many immigrants with poor job and language skills are allowed into the
United States, a new study suggests, but the report also urges increasing the
number of legal U.S. residents from Mexico.

The analysis of California immigration by the Rand think tank warns that the
state's economy cannot continue to absorb large numbers of poorly educated
immigrants, who strain public services and drive away U.S.-born workers.

The Rand report, released Monday, calls on Congress to reduce new legal
admissions to a "moderate range" -- between the 300,000 annual average of the
1970s and the 1990s average of about 800,000.

It also suggests regulating immigration flow so it can be cut at times of high
unemployment. Education levels and English proficiency, it says, should be used
as admission criteria, which now rely heavily on family ties.

"This is not an anti-immigrant study," said Kevin McCarthy, a demographer who
wrote the study along with George Vernez, an urban planner. "What we are arguing
is that we need a more realistic appraisal of immigration studies."

The study by the Santa Monica-based think tank concedes immigration fueled
California growth for more than 20 years -- until the recession of the early
1990s.

California, home to a quarter of the nation's immigrants, is moving away from
low-skilled jobs in manufacturing and other sectors. Despite that, almost half
of all immigrants to the state are from Mexico and Central America, where they
do not receive adequate education, the study said.

"Immigration has always been a mix of benefits and costs," the Rand authors
state. "For California, more than for any other state, the balance is shifting
to the cost side."

The 321-page Rand analysis does not make distinctions between the effects of
legal and illegal arrivals in a state where an estimated one in five immigrants
is undocumented.

But the authors say that should not change the results because factors such as
education level are paramount in determining economic status.

In Mexico's case, the study calls on Congress to treat the southern neighbor "as
a special case rather than just another source country."

The report suggests expanding the number of legal residence permits for Mexican
immigrants in exchange for collaboration on border enforcement. The range of
such an expansion could be somewhere up from the 20,000 residence permits to as
many as 100,000, McCarthy said.

Also recommended are federal payments to offset the heavy education and service
costs borne by California and other states affected by large-scale immigration.
Gov. Pete Wilson has unsuccessfully sued Washington seek
ing such aid.

Advocates for the cause of immigration were critical of some of the report's
conclusions.

An immigration analyst with the Cato Institute in Washington disagreed with the
idea of reducing the flow of immigrants to the United States.

"To keep immigration in historical perspective, the rates are still half what
they were at the turn of the century," said Dan Griswold, director of trade and
immigration studies at Cato, a think tank that proposes free-market solutions.

Griswold conceded that high numbers of immigrants impose burdens on California,
but he said part of the cost problem is "California's overly generous welfare
state."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                SEPTEMBER 23, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PHONING HOME FOR MUCH LESS IMMIGRANTS DEPEND ON PREPAID TELEPHONE CARDS TO KEEP
IN TOUCH WITH FAMILIES POPULARITY SOARS AS MARKET GROWS

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1134 words


While the wired ones in Silicon Valley tangle in their multiple home telephone
lines and cellular signals, less-affluent folks are scrambling to the corner
phone booth to make their calls with cards that let them leave their change at
home.

Prepaid cards -- which let the user pay first and talk later -- are exploding in
growth, driven by immigrants' calls to their homelands. Annual sales revenues
have risen from $12 million in 1992 to a projected $2.15 billion this year.
About half of those revenues are from international calls, according to
consulting group Atlantic-ACM, which estimates sales could hit $4.3 billion by
2001.

Immigrants use these cards more because they share apartments, do not want to
rack up fat monthly bills or do not have home telephones because they lack
credit, analysts say. But they predict phone-card use will increase among the
general population in the coming years.

"This way, I pay as I go, and I can't go further than my wallet," said Alfonso
Maldonado, a 26-year-old restaurant employee who regularly calls family members
in Mexico after he wires them money twice a month.

At East Palo Alto's Pal Market, people line up to buy cards in $5, $10 and $20
denominations. Less than a dozen miles from some of the largest technology
companies in the United States, the neighborhood market sells 800 cards a month,
most to customers who do not have a home telephone.

Pal Market Assistant Manager Rafik Shuman said Mexican immigrants are the sole
buyers of his phone cards.

Onto other immigrants

"The Hispanic population was one of the first targets of the prepaid phone card
market because of the frequency of calling from the U.S. to Mexico. Card
companies are now targeting other immigrant communities and the overall
population," said William West, Atlantic-ACM senior research analyst.

"Because the penetration is high in ethnic communities," he said, "the growing
knowledge of prepaid cards among the broader public will grow. . . . It will be
explosive."

"It's definitely helped our sales," said Jaq Kapoor, president of the 43-store
Stop N Save chain in San Jose. "Mexicans are our top customers, but we have
people calling all over the world with these cards."

Prepaid phone card customers dial an 800 number and use a code on the card to
initiate a long-distance call. The calls can cost 30 percent to 50 percent less
than a call from a home phone.

In Mountain View, Heriberto Zuniga says prepaid cards help his customers: "They
rent a corner of a room, so they can't borrow the telephone where they live.
It's their way of being in control of what they spend and how they spend it."

Some immigrants say being forced to pay up front helps them better organize
their finances. There's no way to talk for hours unless the caller pays first.
When the phone card's value has been used up, service is cut off after a taped
warning.

Besides convenience, immigrants say the price is right. For example, a home
telephone call during evening hours to central Mexico costs 50 to 70 cents a
minute, depending on the telephone company. A prepaid card offers calls for
aslittle as 35 cents a minute at any time of day.

AT&T spokeswoman Pat Mallon said that while prepaid calls are often made outside
the comfort of home, many immigrants are used to using pay phones because they
come from countries where phone cards are widely used.

In other cities with large immigrant populations, the cards are hot sellers.

"People want better rates. Our customers are calling everywhere with these
cards, from Romania to Mexico," said Abid Noman, manager of Grand Food Market in
the ethnically diverse Albany Park area of Chicago.

Miami to Caribbean

At Tony's Pantry in North Miami Beach, Fla., employee Patrick Ford said 1,500
cards are sold each month for calls to Jamaica, Haiti and Cuba.

"These are people with home phones who need lower rates to call relatives," he
said.

Although callers like the savings and convenience of the cards, a few have
experienced the downside. The great demand for the cards has spawned a flock of
undercapitalized companies that have sold inoperable cards. Authorities around
the country have reported cases of outright fraud.

Some cheaper cards may charge callers a $1 service fee before their calls are
connected, so, in effect, the caller receives less time than expected, say
producers of cards by well-known companies.

"Fraud is rampant, and California's ethnic communities have been among the top
victims. We intend to make a lot of noise about it," MCI spokesman Paul Adams
said. "We are telling consumers, 'If it looks too good to be true, it probably
is.' "

The Santa Clara County District Attorney's Office consumer protection unit and
Consumer Action in San Francisco have received numerous complaints about
inoperable cards.

The San Mateo County Better Business Bureau has noted four allegations that
Universal Communications of Redwood City sold faulty cards. Company President
Bhagwan Dayaram said he gave refunds to 2,000 customers after GTS Corp., the New
York-based company that sold him the phone time, went out of business. Dayaram
said he has since found another supplier.

Different times for $5

"I've been buying cards made by different companies," said Leticia Hernandez, a
customer of Las Adelitas Meat Store in East Palo Alto. "Each cost $5, but each
gives me a different amount of time. That's how I know something is wrong, but
I'm not sure what it is, and frankly, I'm not sure I care. I don't have a home
telephone."

To avoid being taken for a ride, MCI and AT&T representatives say buy from a
known provider, and if you buy from a company you're not familiar with, use the
card immediately.

Despite such glitches, sales continue to grow at shops along University Avenue
in East Palo Alto and in other immigrant enclaves.

"At first, we couldn't get rid of them. Then people saw the savings, and we're
selling $2,000 a month," said Jose Lopez, a manager at La Nacional in East Palo
Alto.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Prepaid phone-card revenues nationwide [1992 - 1997]
Source: Atlantic-ACM
CHART: COMPARING PHONE RATES
Cost per minute for a call to Morelia, Mexico, at 7 p.m. on a weeknight:
Company    Cost
------------------------------------------------------------------------
AT&T   $1.18
AT&T(*)   .65
Sprint   1.65 for 1st minute, .25 each minute thereafter
Sprint(*)   .70
MCI   1.06
MCI(*)   .59
Wal-Mart Phone Card   .75
Global Key Phone Card   .35
Vegas Phone Card   .41
Telefiesta   .47
(*)If caller subscribes to a special plan that costs $3 per month.
Source: Mercury News research

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 12A

GRAPHIC: Charts (2), Photo;
PHOTO: TOM VAN DYKE -- MERCURY NEWS
7-Eleven stores are among the many places selling prepaid phone cards.
[970923 FR 1A 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 1, 1997 Wednesday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION

PORTRAIT OF A FAMILY BEING TORN APART INS DEPORTING FATHER TO AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: SANDY KLEFFMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1107 words


It was a proud moment for Shafiqa and Yacob Mayer -- watching two of their
daughters graduate with top grades from Fremont's Kennedy High School in June.

But a cloud of uncertainty hung over the family of Afghan refugees that day, as
it has the past two years.

Now, it seems, the girls' hard-earned education could be for naught. They can't
talk about their future without bursting into tears.

Yacob, 70, was arrested last week and jailed at Lerdo Detention Facility near
Bakersfield, the end-of-the-line for Northern Californians facing deportation.
He will be sent to war-torn Afghanistan as soon as American officials obtain
travel papers for him.

Many East Bay Afghans, fearful about Yacob's fate, say they have not heard of
anyone deported to Afghanistan in recent years. Immigration officials say such
deportations are rare.

It was unclear Tuesday, however, whether the United States can obtain a passport
from a country with no central government, no constitution and several competing
ruling factions.

The rest of the Mayer family faces a gut-wrenching decision:

Do they attempt to accompany Yacob, the family breadwinner, back to Afghanistan
despite the beatings, kidnappings, rapes and severe restrictions on women that
supporters fear could place their lives in jeopardy?

Or do they risk never seeing their husband and father again?

Two-thirds of Afghanistan has been controlled since September by the Taliban, a
militant Islamic group that hopes to impose its own interpretation of the Koran.
That interpretation bans women from going to school, working, and venturing
outside the house unless traveling to a specific destination such as a market.
Men are required to grow bushy beards and women must shroud themselves in
head-to-toe garments. Adulterers have been stoned to death, and women risk being
beaten in the streets for wearing white socks. The con tinuing civil war has
resulted in numerous political killings.

The Board of Immigration Appeals ruled in July that every member of the Mayer
family could have a rehearing on their request for political asylum -- except
Yacob. His request was denied.

Yacob told a fateful lie on his application for asylum that now threatens to rip
the family apart. At the suggestion of friends, he failed to reveal that the
family lived in Germany for five years before arriving in the United States in
March 1993. Instead, he said they fled directly from Afghanistan.

The irony, immigration lawyers say, is that if he simply told the truth, the
family almost certainly would have been granted political asylum.

The pending deportation has terrified the girls, angered some Fremont teachers
and worried friends and supporters.

Wasima, 19, and Nasima, 18, graduated from Kennedy in June and are now attending
Ohlone College in Fremont full time and working part time. The family also
includes 16-year-old Fahima, a Kennedy High School junior who was among the top
four graduates of Walters Junior High School two years ago; 31-year-old Zeada,
who works two jobs to help support the family; and 37-year-old Aref, a son who
is severely mentally disabled.

"All the Afghan community in the Bay Area are concerned what will happen to this
family," said Zalmai Popal, executive director of the Afghan Center in Union
City. "I'm concerned because of his health. He's an old guy and will be away
from his family. To deport someone from here to Afghanistan -- nobody knows the
consequences."

Judge Lawrence DiConstanzo originally denied the family's request for political
asylum two years ago because of the lie. Yacob and Zeada were arrested and sent
to Santa Rita Jail while waiting for deportation papers to be processed.

But after a Mercury News story detailed the family's plight, lawyer Gilbert
Garcia of the Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro law firm in San Francisco offered to
file an appeal on the family's behalf for free. And Shamim and Terry Ritter, a
Fremont family who had never met the Mayers, put up $20,000 to bail them out of
jail. Last July, based on Garcia's motion, the Board of Immigration Appeals
granted a rehearing for everybody but Yacob because of the political changes
that have occurred in Afghanistan since the original decision.

The Ritters and others who know the family say they have been moved by the
daughters' hard work and determination, which earned them top grades despite
their limited English, and the fact that the family worked hard to make ends
meet, never accepting welfare. Yacob supported the family by doing upholstery
and carpentry before his arrest. Friends argue that it makes no sense to split
the family apart.

"They've been role models of what American citizens should be," said Rene
Bierbaum, who met Yacob when he took an English-as-a-second-language class from
her.

"If Mr. Mayer is deported, that means a death sentence for him," said Ghulam
Nasir, a Bay Area resident and former civil-engineering professor at Kabul
University in Afghanistan. "They would consider Yacob as a traitor (for leaving
the country). These ladies here would be considered contaminated, poisoned,
Americanized, and they do not have a place over there. How they would get rid of
them, I don't know."

Fremont lawyer Nadia Farah has filed a motion asking for reconsideration of the
ruling involving Yacob based on the fact that he is main breadwinner in the
family "and they just need him."

But INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery said he's under a final order of deportation
and "he's gotten his due process."

If the United States is unable to obtain travel papers for him within 90 days
however, Rummery said, he may be released from jail on an "order of supervision"
until changes in Afghanistan make it possible to obtain a passport.

Friends of the Mayers have been calling members of Con gress and others hoping
to find some way that the family can remain in the United States.

The Mayer women, meanwhile, have not decided what they will do. Shafiqa said
tearfully that she is thinking of accompanying her husband if he is deported to
Afghanistan and taking the entire family with her.

"As far as I'm concerned, he would be in so much danger that I would rather go,
too," she said, speaking through a Farsi interpreter. "Whatever happens to him,
I would like to see it. I'm afraid that if my daughters are alone (in the U.S.)
without their father's support, they couldn't afford everything. Probably they
wouldn't be able to survive."

Nasima said her father has called the family twice since he has been imprisoned
at Lerdo, but doesn't say much about himself.

"All he worries about is how we're doing," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
The Mayer family, back row from left: son Aref, mother Shafiqa, daughter Zeada.
In front are daughters Washima, Fahima and Nasima.
[971001 LO 1B AL 2]
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
The Mayer family poses in happier times: Nashima's and Washima's graduation from
Kennedy High School in Fremont in June. Yacob, the father threatened with
deportation, is at right.
[971001 LO 1B ] 3

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 2, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB TO VOTE ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 151 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Sierra Club, the nation's largest and most prestigious environmental
organization, is about to trek onto contentious territory: the immigration
debate.

For the first time, the group's 500,000 members will vote on whether to end a
neutral policy on immigration and endorse a reduction in immigration as a way to
slow U.S. population growth.

To those wondering why an organization dedicated to protecting America's
wildlands should take on immigration, longtime Sierra Club member Alan Kuper has
an answer: Overpopulation "happens to underlie all environmental issues."

Immigration feeds overpopulation, he says, and that increases traffic jams, air
pollution, water shortages and extinction of plants and animals.

Kuper, a retired engineer from Cleveland, led the charge in bringing the issue
to a vote scheduled next March. It was a fray the Sierra Club board had sought
to stay out of.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 6, 1997 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DIAMONDS IN THE ROUGH HISTORY OF JAPANESE-AMERICAN BASEBALL ON DISPLAY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: FRESNO


For independent filmmaker Kerry Yo Nakagawa, preserving the legacy of Japanese
baseball in the United States is more than just saving a piece of immigrant
history. It's personal.

"I personally have uncles who used to play with Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio and Lou
Gehrig," said Nakagawa, a Sansei, a third-generation Japanese-American.

And he has photographs to prove it.

Nakagawa has put together a traveling exhibit called "Diamonds in the Rough:
Japanese Americans in Baseball." The exhibit first appeared at the California
State Capitol Museum earlier this year.

The display has moved to San Francisco Presidio's Herbst International
Exhibition Hall and will remain there until December. It is scheduled to tour
through Phoenix, Seattle and Los Angeles next year.

Copies of some of Nakagawa's photos are featured in the exhibit. Behind the wall
on one end of his living room in Fresno is a small room filled with old
pictures, posters and sports memorabilia.

One of the large photographic reproductions from the 1920s shows major league
baseball players lined up alternately with Nisei players in the Fireman's
Stadium at the Fresno Fairgrounds. Another photo blowup from 1927 has baseball
icons Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig posing with four Japanese players during a
barnstorming tour in Fresno.

In the picture, the Bambino towers over the smaller Japanese players.

Although American players were usually head and shoulders above the Japanese
players in stature, the immigrant teams played competitively with the major
leaguers, Nakagawa said.

In one previously published account, Al Beir, a bat boy for Babe Ruth and Lou
Gehrig in 1927, was quoted as saying: "Pound for pound, the Nisei players were
as good as the major leaguers. They ate, thought and slept the game."

The game already was a passion for most Japanese who migrated to the United
States around the turn of the century.

Baseball was introduced to Japan in 1872 by an American teacher, Horace Wilson.
The game became one of the favorite organized sports among Japanese colleges by
the late 1800s.

Japanese immigrants in Hawaii began organizing baseball teams in 1899. The first
mainland team in San Francisco in 1903 was called the Fuji Athletic Club.

"These were not your ragtag teams; they were well-organized. Just look at their
uniforms," said Nakagawa, holding a copy of the team photo.

By 1905, the first college team from Japan toured the United States, Nakagawa
said. In 1914, an Issei, or first-generation, team from the United States toured
Japan.

In 1927, Kenichi Zenimura, called by some the father or the dean of Japanese
baseball in America, took another team to Japan. The players included three
white pitchers from California State University-Fresno.

Zenimura, whose family still resides in Fresno, organized Japanese baseball
teams throughout the San Joaquin Valley.

"When we talk about the '20s, we're talking about the heyday of Nisei baseball,"
Nakagawa said. "There were about 100 Nisei teams in California, Washington
state, Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Nebraska and Wyoming."

And the San Joaquin Valley was one of the hotbeds of Japanese baseball, he said.
It was in the valley where some of the first Japanese-American baseball players
crossed the color barrier to play for semipro twilight league teams.

"These were merchant teams like the Mobil Oil or the Del Monte Packers,"
Nakagawa said. "Most Nisei in other parts were not accepted. It was just a weird
dynamic, but ultimately acceptance off the field gained them acceptance on the
field."

However, that acceptance became moot dur ing World War II when
Japanese-Americans were sent to internment camps, where the game flourished once
again.

"You can only take two suitcases to camp, right? Most of the things that went
into suitcases for men and kids were mitts, baseballs, bats and uniforms,"
Nakagawa said. "Baseball in camps represented real normalcy for the internees,
to give them a connection to the outside world. They kept the spirit of baseball
alive."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A baseball card featuring a Nisei player of the '20s is surrounded by cleats and
mitts, left.
[971006 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Kerry Nakagawa, below, holds a photo showing Japanese players lined up with
major leaguers.
[971006 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: In an undated photo supplied by Kerry Nakagawa of Fresno, Japanese
players stand beside Hall of Famer Joe DiMaggio.
[971006 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 8, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 102 words


The Justice Department would be directed to find out how many tourists remain in
the United States illegally after their visas expire under a bill approved
Tuesday by the House Judiciary Committee. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates the number at 2.1 million.

* Sen. Jesse Helms says the United Nations has no business sending an
investigator around the United States to look into capital punishment as a human
rights abuse. The investigator, Waly Bacre Ndiaye of Senegal, said in San
Francisco on Tuesday -- after visiting San Quentin -- that he was mystified by
Helms' criticism.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 10, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ISRAEL: MOM, 'ABDUCTED' DAUGHTER NOT RELATED REUNITED PAIR INSIST THEY'RE LIVING
EVIDENCE OF '40S BABY-STEALING PLOT

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


In a case involving one of Israel's most persistent conspiracy theories, new
genetic tests show a Sacramento woman is not the daughter of a Yemeni immigrant
to Israel whose baby vanished almost 50 years ago.

Two months after a widely publicized "reunion" in an alleged case of
baby-snatching, Israel's Health Ministry said the national Forensic Institute
had determined without a doubt that Margalit Umassi and Tsila Levine were not
mother and daughter.

Relying on earlier genetic tests conducted by the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, the women in August joyously accepted each other as mother and
daughter, ending a search that occupied most of their lives.

They said their tragedy began nearly 50 years ago when Israeli authorities
allegedly snatched babies from large Yemeni Jewish immigrant families to save
the babies from the harsh conditions of immigration. The babies allegedly were
given or sold to childless Jewish couples of American or European descent.

"If it is brought to court, (Levine) is not (Umassi's) daughter," Health
Ministry Director-General Gabi Barbash told Israel Radio after receiving the new
findings from the Forensic Institute.

Levine, speaking from her home in California, said she would not be denied her
newfound mother.

"I invite the entire world to be happy with us, and if someone does not want to
participate, I very much ask that they don't bother me," she told Israel's army
radio.

"She is my daughter," Umassi told Israel Television, tears welling in her eyes.

Levine said the Hebrew University had twice conducted genetic tests that proved
a biological link between her and Umassi.

Dr. Yehuda Hiss, head of the Forensic Institute, said the university's tests
were inaccurate, and his scientists followed procedures used by the FBI and
Britain's Scotland Yard.

"Why today should I trust information from the Health Ministry, the same people
who 50 years ago knew and oversaw the disappearance of the Yemeni children and
those of other communities?" Levine said. "The results are notreliable."

Israelis of Yemeni origin have long claimed authorities took hundreds of
immigrant infants who were in Israel hospitals between 1948 and 1950. The birth
mothers said they were told the children had died.

Rabbi Menachem Porush, once a political kingpin of European descent, said in
September that baby-snatching had occurred.

"Large families arrived from Yemen, but we took their children," he said.

The families immigrated as part of Israel's "Operation Magic Carpet," in which
more than 50,000 Jews were airlifted to the nascent Jewish state and settled in
crowded shantytowns.

Porush said those who knew of the abduction-adoptions were social workers and
officials of leftist parties who wanted to save the infants from the tough
conditions the immigrants faced.

A state commission is investigating the cases. An earlier inquiry in 1994 said
most of the missing children had died of disease.

Levine's adoptive parents are dead. She married an American and has lived in the
United States for 18 years.

She said it was time for Israel to end her pain.

"The country betrayed me 50 years ago. . . . If an injured bird fell on your
porch, would you destroy it or would you heal it so that it could return to its
flock? Where is my flock?"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 10, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'CALIFORNIA'S APPALACHIA' FORESEEN IN VALLEY TOWNS REPORT: MIGRANT FARMWORKERS
FACE GROWING POVERTY

BYLINE: BEN STOCKING AND ARIANA E. CHA, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1015 words


As Latino immigrants flock to mostly small California towns in search of farm
jobs, a new poverty is emerging that could prove even more difficult to combat
than the severe economic want that once plagued the rural South, a new report
warns.

"The fear is that these communities could become California's Appalachia," said
Phil Martin, a University of California-Davis economist who co-wrote the study
of poverty in the San Joaquin Valley, the central coast and Southern California.

Even though California's giant agricultural companies are earning robust
profits, the report found, the immigrant laborers who toil for them in seasonal
jobs are not earning enough to keep their families out of grinding poverty.

And, the report said, the communities in which they live are bearing a
disproportionate share of the costs of legal and illegal immigration, from
welfare payments to school construction to medical costs.

About three dozen economists, demographers and anthropologists gathered Thursday
for a conference at UC-Davis to discuss the findings of the report, "Poverty
Amid Prosperity: Immigration and the Changing Face of Rural California." The
work was published by the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank that has
conducted various studies on the impact of immigration.

Immigration foes seized on the report's findings as evidence that greater curbs
on immigration are necessary. Pro-immigration groups, however, said the report
highlighted the need to help recent immigrants win a decent standard of living.

Data presented at the conference underscored the severity of the poverty that
afflicts many rural California communities. In the San Joaquin Valley, for
example, unemployment rates are in double digits and the percentage of residents
receiving public assistance is high: 29 percent in Fresno County, 30 percent in
Merced County and 25 percent in Tulare County.

By comparison, economically booming Santa Clara County's unemployment rate is 3
percent. And the number of people receiving public assistance is under 10
percent.

Many from Mexico

The population in rural communities is swelling as immigrants, most of them
fleeing poverty in Mexico, keep arriving in search of work. The towns they live
in resemble sprawling, overpopulated migrant labor camps, the report said.

"We're talking about extreme poverty existing cheek-to-jowl with an expanding,
thriving, world-dominating industry like California agriculture," said Michael
Fix, an author of the report and the Urban Institute's immigration expert.

One community grappling with the issues highlighted in the report is Madera, a
city of 35,000 north of Fresno. The other cities and towns studied were
Farmersville, Fresno, Guadalupe, McFarland, Parlier and Shandon.

Since 1980, Madera's population has swelled from 21,000, mostly because of
immigration. During that time, Madera's Latino population jumped from 42 percent
to 54 percent.

Transition for workers

In the past five years, city officials say, migrant Latino farmworkers have made
the transition from seasonal to year-round work. A number of large
food-processing and other corporations moved into the city during that
period,offering work during the agricultural off-season.

Many of these farmworkers live in state and federally subsidized housing on the
city's east side. Three subsidized housing complexes that are largely inhabited
by farmworkers have been built in the last few years.

The city has experienced increasing segregation and ethnic animosity, partly
because of language differences and resentment among longtime residents over
their perception that too many Latinos are on welfare.

Rita Flores, a 37-year-old nurse who is married to a Mexican-American, said she
is angry that it's difficult to find a medical job in the city if you don't
speak Spanish -- which she doesn't.

"If you live here, you should learn English," she said.

Flores also was upset that her 7-year-old son, Shaun, was placed in an
English-as-a-second-language kindergarten class a few years ago, even though he
didn't speak Spanish. The teachers assumed that he spoke only Spanish because of
his last name, she said.

Anti-immigrant groups said the new study pointed to flaws in the nation's
immigration policies.

"This is part of the new feudal society," said Rick Oltman of San Rafael, a
leader of the campaign to approve Proposition 187, the 1994 initiative aimed at
slashing public benefits to illegal immigrants.

"It's being encouraged by everybody who wants cheap labor," said Oltman, who now
works for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

Charles Wheeler, an attorney for the Catholic Legal Immigration Network in San
Francisco, acknowledged that some communities might need help in dealing with
the impact of immigration. Perhaps, he said, the federal government should help
those communities absorb the costs of education and medical care to recent
immigrants.

But he said that although immigration might require some difficult short-term
adjustments in particular communities, there is no doubt that it benefits
California and the nation in the long term.

"It's certainly one of the major reasons that our economy has been so robust,"
Wheeler said.

The Urban Institute's study did not propose a specific agenda for assuaging the
newly created poverty.

"There is no 'magic bullet' solution out there," Martin said. "It's much easier
to describe the problem than to come up with solutions."

Formula for a solution

Combating the problem will require a complex mix of policy solutions, Fix said.
Any solution will require some mix of immigration controls -- both at the border
and in the workplace -- combined with greater efforts to help immigrants
integrate themselves into the community, the report said.

But the influx of immigration comes as Congress is increasingly hostile to
health, education and job-training programs designed to help immigrants.

"The concern is that the new welfare and immigration reforms are going to
exacerbate the conditions in these towns," Fix said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Edwin Garcia contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
Towns in Immigration Study

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 15, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TB IS BLACK MARK ON COUNTY'S HEALTH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 473 words


SANTA Clara County residents are among the healthiest in the nation. Yet the
county's overall vitality masks an insidious health problem. According to a
recent report published by the county's health department, Santa Clara had one
of the highest caseloads of tuberculosis infection in the state last year.

According to the County Health Status Report 1997, which provided data on a
variety of health issues, the county had the third highest number of TB cases in
the state last year. With 18.2 cases per 100,000 persons, the county's rate of
infection is higher than California's overall infection rate.

This problem is directly linked to an international epidemic. The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention report that there are 8 million new cases of TB
each year, and 3 million people worldwide die as a result of the disease. It is
no surprise, then, that the county's immigrant communities are the most
vulnerable to infection. Many come from countries ill-equipped to deal with the
disease. Once they arrive here, language barriers, overcrowded housing
conditions and lack of access to medical care often contribute to the disease's
spread.

Legal immigrants are screened for TB as part of the visa process and those who
carry the disease are required to get treatment. Once their immigrant status is
settled, however, they may leave and re-enter the county without further
testing.

Before the mid-1980s, the United States had virtually eliminated TB. Then state
and local governments, convinced that the problem was solved, disinvested in
treatment and prevention programs. The rates of infection soared, and
drug-resistant strains began to emerge.

In 1995, the federal government provided resources needed to rein in the disease
again. Those measures have reduced the rate of infection in some areas.

When individuals test positive for the infection, health departmentofficials
investigate that person's household and workplace and test those with whom the
patient has had close contact. Although treatment is dictated by the stage of
infection, a six-month medical regimen is typically required. Health department
officials arrange for what is called "directly observed therapy," which requires
patients to take their daily medications in the presence of a health worker.
Such a labor-intensive process leaves little room for public health officials to
focus on prevention programs.

Officials hope community organizations will step in and help raise awareness
about the disease in the county's most affected communities. The Board of
Supervisors recently approved funding for six new infectious disease
specialists. That's a good start. Santa Clara County is enjoying an
unprecedented wave of prosperity; it makes no sense that some sectors of our
community are afflicted with a Third World scourge.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial: The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 OCTOBER 19, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONNECTING WITH THE HEART OF MEXICO FOR MANY BAY AREA IMMIGRANTS, JUAN GABRIEL
IS A MODERN-DAY LINK WITH A NATIVE CULTURE

BYLINE: JAMES LULL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7P

LENGTH: 717 words


DIVORCED in time and space from the familiar terrain of everyday life back home,
immigrants to California and elsewhere depend greatly on symbolic links to their
native ways of life. The Juan Gabriel concert scheduled at the San Jose Arena
this afternoon is a spectacular demonstration of just how important such
symbolic links to the romanticized past can be.

Juan Gabriel is without question Mexico's greatest composer of popular music, a
phenomenal singer, and one of the most loved figures in all of Mexican
contemporary popular culture. San Jose's huge Latino community, made up mainly
of Mexican immigrants, connects intimately to the songs and especially to the
cultural feelings inspired by Juan Gabriel's distinctive lyrics and tunes.

Mexico is by no means just a geographical place. More than anything, it is a
cultural space, and that space comes alive when the melodies pour out of the
speakers at Juan Gabriel's concerts.

Juan Gabriel is now performing material from his two latest albums and other
songs from his 30-year career. His most recent solo album, "The Mexico that has
left us" (El Mexico que se nos fue), is a particularly emotional portrait of the
cultural tensions between Mexico and the United States.

The title song, for instance, laments the transformation of Mexican towns and
villages in the wake of immigration, the devastation of the Mexican economy
since the peso devaluation and recession of the last few years,
industrialization and contamination of the countryside, and the modernization
and commercialization of life in general. Juan Gabriel sadly recounts the
replacement of adobe homes with cement structures, the breaking up of nuclear
families, even the preference of television over local music groups for
entertainment.

What Juan Gabriel describes is a poignant Mexican version of the downside of
modernity and globalization. He creates a vivid emotional experience, a
romanticized, nostalgic view of old Mexico, which may not promote the interests
of Mexican economic development, but which touches the hearts and souls of
Mexican immigrants -- those with and without legal papers -- who reside and toil
in San Jose and the rest of northern California.

Juan Gabriel's concert will be attended by an audience composed almost
exclusively of Mexican-Americans and their Mexican relatives and friends. He
draws huge crowds, even without advertising in the mainstream, English-speaking
media. The San Jose concert was promoted in Nuevo Mundo, for instance, but not
in the Mercury News. Like the Vietnamese-American community here,
Mexican-Americans learn about their cultural events largely through alternative
media and informal social networks. They really don't expect much more.

Although American audiences for popular music may be divided by social class,
age, and race (just check out who attends a heavy metal, rap, country, or
classical concert), Juan Gabriel transcends demographic categories in Mexico,
and in the Mexican diaspora here. Young and old, male and female, relatively
rich and poor, everyone knows his songs. They'll sing and move with him in
unison.

Juan Gabriel is a unifying resource of enormous importance. That cultural unity
inspires a kind of democracy in Latin America that ideology, politics, and
economics may never be able to provide.

What Juan Gabriel offers his compatriots is access to their own sense of
cultural well-being, their hopes for the future, and the potential to enjoy
popular pleasures. Symbolic and cultural power can be so much more democratic
than traditional political, economic, and military influence because individuals
from all walks of life can exercise some real measure of control over their
experiences and feelings.

Of course, Juan Gabriel is not the only Mexican popular singer who can inspire
such reactions. San Jose has welcomed Luis Miguel, Mana, Alejandra Guzman, and
Los Tigres del Norte among many other Mexican musicians and groups recently.

But Juan Gabriel really stands alone. His big hit "I keep loving you" (Te sigo
amando) was the theme song of Mexico's most successful TV soap opera this year.

For thousands of our people who keep loving Mexico from a distance -- even if
that love must remain largely symbolic -- today is certainly not just any
Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
James Lull is professor of communication studies at San Jose State University.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Singer-composer Juan Gabriel is one of the most loved figures in
contemporary popular culture.
[971019 PE 7P]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 22, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SEQUOIA AIDS VENTURES OF AREA'S FOREIGN-BORN TALENT;
FUND BACKED BY, SUPPORTS IMMIGRANTS
FOCUS IS A DYNAMIC ELEMENT IN VALLEY

BYLINE: SCOTT HERHOLD, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 827 words


When the venture capitalists at Sequoia Capital think of immigrants, they don't
envision the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. They see a solid business
opportunity.

Seeking to tap the future of a burgeoning and energetic community, Menlo
Park-based Sequoia has formed a boutique venture fund, backed by immigrant
investors and dedicated to one main purpose: investing in the companies of
foreign-born or first-generation-American entrepreneurs.

The $3 million International Partners Fund formed by Sequoia Capital -- the
elite firm that backed Yahoo Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc.-- is tiny compared with
most venture funds. And Sequoia is hardly the only venture firm to see promise
in foreign-born entrepreneurs.

But the fund is a declaration that Sequoia wants to cultivate the ideas and
corral the talent of an increasingly dynamic segment of Silicon Valley.

"It is in some sense a marketing scheme," says Jerry Yang, one of the Yahoo
founders and an investor in the new fund. "But it's refreshing to see this focus
because venture capitalists tend to be focused on market segments rather than
people."

By some venture capitalist estimates, at least 40 percent of the high-tech
companies being formed today have at least one prominent immigrant founder.
Sequoia says the immigrant companies it has backed over three decades now have a
total market cap of $20 billion.

"(The fund) started because we all looked at the table here," says Sequoia
partner Michael Moritz of his fellow partners. "Of the nine of us, only one was
born in California. Three of us are immigrants. Just by looking at the mirror,
we're pretty partial to immigrants."

In that respect, Sequoia is not unique. Established firms like Mayfield Fund and
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers have prominent partners who were born abroad.
Other firms, like Worldview Technology Partners in Palo Alto, have strong ties
in Asia.

But Sequoia has been more aggressive than most in expressing its interest. Under
the International Partners fund, 30 entrepreneurs from 10 countries are putting
up an average of $100,000 apiece. Their small pool will be supplemented by
Sequoia's current $150 million fund, which has focused, among other things, on
software and telecommunications.

Moritz, a former Time magazine correspondent, says the smaller fund will act as
a beacon, attracting companies whose founders are immigrants or first-generation
Americans.

It's a pact that both sides seem to like: The immigrant investors benefit from
Sequoia's track record. Immigrant companies get funding. And Sequoia gets the
advantage of early tips about hot young companies.

The last point is no small one. With increasing sums of money available to
promising companies, particularly from angels and foreign investors, traditional
venture capitalists are facing increasing competition for their services.

The first investment of Sequoia's new fund was in Yago Systems Inc., a Sunnyvale
telecommunications company whose three founders are Indian-born. And Sequoia
recently funded Link Exchange Inc., an Internet advertising company whose
founders hail from India and Iran.

Sequoia's new fund offers a glimpse into the cultures and standards that
motivate many start-ups formed by immigrants.

"We think these sorts of companies have much more drive in them, have a much
greater desire to succeed, a greater willingness to battle all odds," said
Moritz, who was born in the United Kingdom. "They all have as their bedrock the
immigrants' desire to succeed."

Although generalizations about these companies are dangerous, the entrepreneurs
themselves say they have similar strengths -- and needs. For starters, they tend
to be frugal, a trait that venture capitalists admire.

Link Exchange, for example, operates out of a two-story walk-up in San Francisco
without air-conditioning, sharing wastepaper baskets among employees. At Yago,
the parking lots are full on Sunday afternoon in the middle of the summer.

By the same token, entrepreneurs acknowledge that many of the immigrant-backed
start-ups need help in marketing and finance.

"Many of the founders started predominantly on the technical side," says one of
the fund's investors, Som Sikdar, the CEO of Shomiti Systems Inc., which also
received a Sequoia investment. "Most of us have engineering backgrounds. To be
successful, we needed a lot more business savvy."

Compared to what immigrants have already faced in getting to the United States,
obtaining their degrees and beginning their companies, the hardships seem worth
it.

"Definitely, immigrants would be more careful," says Prakash Agarwal, another
investor and the CEO of Neomagic Inc., a Sequoia-backed company that develops
graphics controllers for portable computers. "But at the same time, they're
willing to take bigger risks. The reason is that they left their country, left
their homeland, and trying something new is in their blood."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS -- MERCURY NEWS
Prakash Agarwal, an investor in the Sequoia venture fund, is CEO of Neomagic
Inc., which develops graphics controllers for portable computers.
[971022 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 30, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GREEN CARD LOTTERY TOO MUCH OF A GAMBLE

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 806 words


SIGN UP NOW to win a fabulous life-time trip to America! 55,000 lucky winners!
You must be a high school graduate. Offer ends Nov. 24.

The Armenian programmer, the Irish nurse, the Mongolian yak herder and the
Nigerian mail man want to emigrate to America, along with millions of others who
don't have close relatives to sponsor them.

Who will get a green card?

In this category of U.S. immigration policy, in-demand job skills, advanced
education and English fluency don't count. Neither does a cousin in Milpitas
who's willing to help. It's a lottery.

Contestants in the Diversity Visa Lottery must have a high school education (or
the equivalent) or two years of work experience in an occupation that requires
two years of training or experience. And they can't come from countries with
high rates of migration to the U.S., such as Mexico, El Salvador, Vietnam, the
Philippines and Britain.

Six million people are expected to enter the lottery; 100,000 randomly selected
winners will have the right to apply for 55,000 resident visas, awarded on a
first-come, first-served basis. The out-of-work clerk has just as good a chance
as the research scientist.

It's time for U.S. immigration policy to get choosy about who gets to be an
American. If we need to boost immigration from certain countries in the name of
diversity, let's pick diverse immigrants who can contribute quickly to our
society.

Most legal immigrants become self-supporting workers and taxpayers.

But America offers diminishing opportunity for newcomers who lack skills,
education and English. "Immigrants with minimal job skills are making little or
no progress after they arrive," writes Kevin McCarthy in the New York Times. A
Rand demographer, McCarthy recommends finding a better balance between
"low-skilled immigrants admitted for family reasons and high-skilled immigrants
admitted for economic reasons."

"Only if there is a compelling national interest, such as nuclear family
reunification or humanitarian admissions, should immigrants be admitted without
regard to the economic contributions they can make," said the final report of
the Commission on Immigration Reform, which ended its five-year term last month.

Next week, the House Immigration Committee will hold hearings on the final
report, which recommended limiting admission of unskilled, uneducated
immigrants, and stressing Americanization for those who do come.

Our current rules give top priority to the parents, spouse and minor children of
a citizen; adult children have a lower priority; married children and
grandchildren are even lower.

A legal resident who isn't yet a citizen may wait years even for spouse and
young children.

Why do we think it's more important for immigrants to be united with their
parents, who may be too old to establish themselves in a new country, than with
their grown children and grandchildren? Why favor the past over the future?

If Zltsnk qualifies for a visa, we should include his immediate family
immediately.

Beyond that, we should look at all factors that influence a potential
immigrant's ability to make it in 21st century America. Give points based on
education, job skills and English fluency. We can give additional points for
those with a family sponsor who's willing to help: Maybe the married adult child
gets 50 points, the parent 25 points, the brother 10, the niece 5 points. If
diversity is a goal, give points for coming from a low-migration country. Make
choices.

Our current system is setting up too many people for poverty.

Until now, we've let immigrants living in poverty themselves sponsor family
members, promising to support Mama when they're having trouble supporting
themselves. Too often, Mama ended up on SSI.

Starting in December, would-be sponsors must show their family income is at
least 125 percent of the poverty line before being allowed to bring in a
relative who might require financial help. Sponsorship, now often an empty
promise, will be a legally enforceable obligation.

A third of current sponsors don't earn that much -- about $20,000 for a family
of four -- according to a study by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Half of all Mexican immigrant families may not qualify as sponsors.

It's tough on struggling families who want to bring over a parent or an adult
child or a brother, but it's realistic: There's a limit to how much water can be
thrown in the soup.

Immigration is a critical part of the vitality of America, and I'd hate to see
us shut the door to legal immigrants because we're afraid they'll end up on the
dole or stuck in hopeless poverty. I'm afraid that will happen if we don't get
smart er about how we design our system.

And nothing could be dumber than taking Lucky Winner Number 54,999, the
Slobbovian disco dancer.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joanne Jacobs is a member of the Mercury News editorial board. Her column
appears on Mondays and Thursdays.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  OCTOBER 30, 1997 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

GATHERING VITAL INFORMATION HUNDREDS ATTEND CITIZENSHIP WORKSHOP

BYLINE: SHARON RUWART, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 533 words


Susano Marquez wants to be a role model for his students, many of them children
of migrant workers.

That's why he attended a Santa Clara County-sponsored workshop Wednesday on
becoming a citizen.

"It's very important for me . . . to become a citizen and vote so they can see
that democracy means that everyone can vote, and that every vote counts," said
Marquez, who teaches U.S. history at San Jose's Abraham Lincoln High School.

Marquez, 28, was one of nearly 1,000 people who came to the workshop to help
immigrants take the first step in becoming citizens. The workshop was the first
the county had sponsored and was offered in 12 languages.

Marquez and his wife, Angelica, 25, both came to the United States from Mexico
when they were small children, but had not thought of becoming citizens until
recently.

"The way everything is going now, we're sort of forced to," said Angelica, an
education student at San Jose State University. "We're teachers, first of all.
And all this immigration stuff -- the laws and stuff -- are hitting our
students. It's going to affect them, and they need to be able to do something
about it."

The welfare reform laws passed last year restricted legal immigrants'
eligibility for certain benefits, such as food stamps, prompting many at
Wednesday's workshop -- including some who have lived here for decades -- to
finally take the plunge into citizenship.

Zenona Chacon, 75, was born in Mexico and has lived in the United States for 47
years. She came to the workshop on the advice of a local teacher.

"This is my home. I want to vote," she said.

Her friend, 66-year-old Maria Juarez, said, "I have to become a citizen because
sometimes they take away benefits -- what would I do if I lost my SSI?"

Chacon nodded emphatically. "I need my Social Security payment and SSI payment
every month."

Richard Hobbs, director of the county's citizenship office, said the county
contacted 8,629 immigrants who lost food stamps Sept. 1 to tell them about the
workshop.

"The whole anti-immigrant
aura that has invaded the nation and the state is a big reason many people are
doing this right now," said Hobbs. "Prop. 187, Prop. 209, the bilingual
education initiative that's going to be on the ballot in 1998 -- people have
realized they need to be able to vote about these things."

The workshop explained the process of citizenship and distributed sample
applications. Various non-profit agencies scheduled follow-up sessions with
participants, where they will get help filling out the applications and have the
required photos and fingerprints taken at no charge.

Organizers were pleased with the turnout.

"A lot of people think that citizenship isn't a priority for legal immigrants,
but this shows that's not true," said Jim McEntee, executive director of the
county's human relations office.

'It's frustrating, though, because we're getting all of these applications into
the INS, but there's this tremendous backlog. In San Francisco, the wait is nine
months. In Fresno, it's six months, and in San Jose, it's 19 months. It's
frustrating to tell people, 'Hurry up and wait.' "

The county plans to hold another workshop next spring.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ALSO RAN: page 2B, Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LEN VAUGHN-LAHMAN -- MERCURY NEWS
Francisco Gallindo and his wife, center, are among the hundreds of immigrants
attending a county-sponsored workshop on how to apply for citizenship, Wednesday
at the County Government Center in San Jose.
[971030 LO 1B PE 1]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 3, 1997 Monday ALAMEDA COUNTY EDITION
                              Correction Appended

AN UNLIKELY IMMIGRATION FOE? WOMAN'S STANCE PUTS HER AT ODDS WITH MANY

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1148 words


Like many immigrants, Yeh Ling-Ling traveled a roundabout route before entering
the United States.

Born 44 years ago in Vietnam to Chinese parents, she lived in Cambodia, Taiwan
and France before arriving on these shores in 1980.

Now married, a mother, and settled comfortably in Orinda, Yeh is on her way to
becoming a national spokeswoman for a cause that puts her odds with many of
those who, like her, left their native lands for a new life in America.

If Yeh had her way, illegal immigration would cease entirely, and legal
immigration would slow from its current rate of 800,000 a year to 100,000.
Framing her argument in the language of a super-patriot, she says it's the least
she can do for the country she now calls home.

"Charity starts at home," she said. "I am looking from the perspective of what's
good for America. Each country should take care of its own citizens first,
including the United States."

According to Yeh, the 1 million legal and illegal immigrants coming to the
United States every year undermine education, overburden welfare, harm the
environment, drive down wages and affect competing members of other minority
groups by taking jobs that should go to native-born Americans.

Since 1994, in more than 30 newspaper op-ed pieces from New York to San
Francisco, and on more than 120 radio talk shows from Florida to Oregon, Yeh has
used her platform in an organization called the Midwest Coalition to Reform
Immigration to articulate her anti-immigration stance and claim support in this
cause among fellow immigrants.

She gives scarcely a nod toward the irony that, if her ideas had been policy 17
years ago, she might never have been permitted into this country.

But it's an irony her critics and foes seize upon.

"Why would an immigrant step on her own people?" asked Annie Chung, an
immigrants rights activist and director of Self-Help for the Elderly in San
Francisco. Chung once debated Yeh on a Chinese radio talk show. Furious callers
flooded the station demanding to know who Yeh was.

Yvonne Lee, a member of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, questions who Yeh's
supporters might be in the Asian community. Lee has been waiting to debate Yeh,
who has been a no-show on three occasions.

"She has yet go to an open forum where she has to face the community," Lee said.
"She's fine with non-Asians who don't question her credibility because she
always characterizes herself as an immigrant, but she takes pain to avoid the
Chinese community. The hypocrisy is that she uses her status as an immigrant to
promote her point of view."

Yeh shrugs off the criticism.

"All my life I've been saying what I think. So it doesn't bother me that people
say that I'm a hypocrite," she said. "Hey, this is not a racial issue. This
impacts us all. I must do and say what is right to preserve the quality of life
in America."

Asked about the paradox of her arguing against easy entry into a country she
entered so easily herself, she replied: "I was invited to eat at the table. The
American government allowed it to happen. It's not my problem."
How opinions were formed
She traces her self-styled awakening to work she did as a paralegal more than 10
years ago with the large San Francisco law firm of Fragomen, Del Rey and
Bernsen, specializing in immigration issues. It was during this time she said
she learned the extent of immigration and welfare fraud, especially among
elderly Asians who had come to join their children. She was appalled at the ease
with which foreigners could get into and stay in the country.

After marrying and moving to Orinda, where she is known as Suzanne Feinberg, she
began attending meetings on the fiscal impact of development in the community --
and had an epiphany on immigration issues. When Yeh learned the cost of
educating a child in public school was $5,000, she began tallying the cost of
newcomers elsewhere.

With the fury of an inflamed taxpayer, she demanded: "Where are we going to find
the tax dollars to educate the hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants every
year? What about fire, police, emergency services that new people in the area
were having?"

She began working three years ago with a group called Carrying Capacity, and
founded a group called Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium. Firm
in her beliefs now, she can look back on her own odyssey to America -- and
family members left behind -- with cool-eyed detachment.
She grew up during turmoil
She was born in Cho Lon, the Chinese quarter of Saigon, in 1953, the eighth in a
family of nine children. Her father, a rice-mill owner, relocated the family to
Cambodia in 1957 because he was concerned about the prospects of war.

With the overthrow of Prince Norodom Sihanouk in the 1970 coup, Cambodia became
entangled in the expanding Indochinese war. By then a teenager, Yeh left
Cambodia to live with a brother in Taiwan. At the end of the war in 1975, except
for the parents and one sister, the rest of the family had left Cambodia. Yeh
never heard from her parents or sister again and presumed they perished during
Khmer Rouge terror.

Although she wished her parents were still alive, she says she could not have
saved them by bringing them to Taiwan even if she had wanted to.

"Taiwan must take care of its own citizens first," she said. Nor should her
siblings in the United States have sponsored them. "I have to be fair and
objective in this matter.

"If they let in my parents, then they have to let in everyone else's."
On to the United States
In 1976, Yeh was on the move again, this time to France, where another sibling
lived. Yeh enrolled in the Faculty of Law at the Sorbonne. Although she wanted
to stay in France, she was denied a permanent visa. This time, she opted to join
other siblings in the United States.

"I came to live with my sister in the family reunification program, and yet I
never lived with her," Yeh said, citing the "absurdity of U.S immigration
policy" that did not require her to live with her family. Because her sister's
family lived in what Yeh termed a Chinese ghetto in Monterey Park, Yeh moved to
Northern California to be in a more "American" environment.

It was here that she met and married Seth Feinberg, a real-estate lawyer, and
here that she evolved into what her critics are calling the Ward Connerly of the
anti-immigration movement.

Yeh concedes that immigrants are not to blame for all of the problems in the
United States.

"We are all polluters," she said.

Her greatest concern is popula tion control, an issue she feels more vehement
about than immigration.

"I love my son to death," she said, "but it would be an extra burden to Mother
Earth if I had another child."

When she sees mothers struggling with children, she will accost them to tell
them off.

"I tell them they're irresponsible. Don't make more babies!"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: NOVEMBER 4, 1997

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 11/4/97, pg. 2A)
Anti-immigration activist Yeh Ling-Ling, reacting to an assertion contained in
an article that appeared in the local section of some Mercury News editions over
the weekend, denies ever backing out of a debate with Yvonne Lee, a member of
the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, or otherwise ducking the Chinese-American
community. Yeh says she wants to debate Lee and that she has appeared at least
twice on Chinese-language talk shows and published several pieces in journals
aimed at Chinese-Americans.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Yeh Ling-Ling, at an Orinda coffee house, expounds on her support for limiting
immigration to the United States.
[971103 LO 1B AL 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 4, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION FOE AT ODDS WITH MANY ORINDA RESIDENT IS HERSELF AN IMMIGRANT

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1198 words


Like many immigrants, Yeh Ling-Ling traveled a roundabout route before entering
the United States.

Born 44 years ago in Vietnam to Chinese parents, she lived in Cambodia, Taiwan
and France before arriving on these shores in 1980.

Now married, a mother, and settled comfortably in Orinda, Yeh is on her way to
becoming a national spokeswoman for a cause that puts her at odds with many of
those who, like her, left their native lands for a new life in America.

If Yeh had her way, illegal immigration would cease entirely, and legal
immigration would slow from its current rate of 800,000 a year to 100,000.
Framing her argument in the language of a super-patriot, she says it's the least
she can do for the country she now calls home.

"Charity starts at home," she said. "I am looking from the perspective of what's
good for America. Each country should take care of its own citizens first,
including the United States."

According to Yeh, the 1 million legal and illegal immigrants coming to the
United States every year undermine education, overburden welfare, harm the
environment, drive down wages and affect competing members of other minority
groups by taking jobs that should go to native-born Americans.

Since 1994, in more than 30 newspaper opinion page pieces from New York to San
Francisco, and on more than 120 radio talk shows from Florida to Oregon, Yeh has
used her platform in an organization called the Midwest Coalition to Reform
Immigration to articulate her anti-immigration stance and claim support in this
cause among fellow immigrants.

She gives scarcely a nod toward the irony that, if her ideas had been policy 17
years ago, she might never have been permitted into this country.

But it's an irony her critics and foes seize upon.

"Why would an immigrant step on her own people?" asked Annie Chung, an
immigrants rights activist and director of Self-Help for the Elderly in San
Francisco. Chung once debated Yeh on a Chinese radio talk show. Furious callers
flooded the station demanding to know who Yeh was.

Yvonne Lee, a member of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, questions who Yeh's
supporters might be in the Asian community. Lee said she has been waiting to
debate Yeh, who has been a no-show on three occasions.

"She has yet go to an open forum where she has to face the community," Lee said.
"She's fine with non-Asians who don't question her credibility because she
always characterizes herself as an immigrant, but she takes pain to avoid the
Chinese community. The hypocrisy is that she uses her status as an immigrant to
promote her point of view."

Yeh denies ever backing out of a debate with Lee, or otherwise ducking the
Chinese-American community.

"I want to debate her," she said, adding that she has appeared at least twice on
Chinese-language talk shows and pub lished several pieces in journals aimed at
Chinese-Americans.

She shrugs off the criticism.

"All my life I've been saying what I think. So it doesn't bother me that people
say that I'm a hypocrite," she said. "Hey, this is not a racial issue. This
impacts us all. I must do and say what is right to preserve the quality of life
in America."

Asked about the paradox of her arguing against easy entry into a country she
entered so easily herself, she replied: "I was invited to eat at the table. The
American government allowed it to happen. It's not my problem."
How opinions were formed
She traces her self-styled awakening to work she did as a paralegal more than 10
years ago with the large San Francisco law firm of Fragomen, Del Rey and
Bernsen, specializing in immigration issues. It was during this time she said
she learned the extent of immigration and welfare fraud, especially among
elderly Asians who had come to join their children. She was appalled at the ease
with which foreigners could get into and stay in the country.

After marrying and moving to Orinda, where she is known as Suzanne Feinberg, she
began attending meetings on the fiscal impact of development in the community --
and had an epiphany on immigration issues. When Yeh learned the cost of
educating a child in public school was $5,000, she began tallying the cost of
newcomers elsewhere.

With the fury of an inflamed taxpayer, she demanded: "Where are we going to find
the tax dollars to educate the hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants every
year? What about fire, police, emergency services that new people in the area
were having?"

She began working three years ago with a group called Carrying Capacity, and
founded a group called Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium. Firm
in her beliefs now, she can look back on her own odyssey to America -- and
family members left behind -- with cool-eyed detachment.
She grew up during turmoil
She was born in Cho Lon, the Chinese quarter of Saigon, in 1953, the eighth in a
family of nine children. Her father, a rice-mill owner, moved the family to
Cambodia in 1957 because he was concerned about the prospects of war.

With the overthrow of Prince Norodom Sihanouk in the 1970 coup, Cambodia became
entangled in the expanding Indochinese war. By then a teenager, Yeh left
Cambodia to live with a brother in Taiwan. At the end of the war in 1975, except
for the parents and one sister, the rest of the family had left Cambodia. Yeh
never heard from her parents or sister again and presumed they perished during
Khmer Rouge terror.

Although she wished her parents were still alive, she says she could not have
saved them by bringing them to Taiwan even if she had wanted to.

"Taiwan must take care of its own citizens first," she said. Nor should her
siblings in the United States have sponsored them. "I have to be fair and
objective in this matter.

"If they let in my parents, then they have to let in everyone else's."
On to the United States
In 1976, Yeh was on the move again, this time to France, where another sibling
lived. Yeh enrolled in the Faculty of Law at the Sorbonne. Although she wanted
to stay in France, she was denied a permanent visa. This time, she opted to join
other siblings in the United States.

"I came to live with my sister in the family reunification program, and yet I
never lived with her," Yeh said, citing the "absurdity of U.S immigration
policy" that did not require her to live with her family. Because her sister's
family lived in what Yeh termed a Chinese ghetto in Monterey Park, Yeh moved to
Northern California to be in a more "American" environment.

It was here that she met and married Seth Feinberg, a real-estate lawyer, and
here that she evolved into what her critics are calling the Ward Connerly of the
anti-immigration movement.

Yeh concedes that immigrants are not to blame for all of the problems in the
United States.

"We are all polluters," she said.

Her greatest concern is population control, an issue she feels more vehement
about than immigration.

"I love my son to death," she said, "but it would be an extra burden to Mother
Earth if I had another child."

When she sees mothers struggling with children, she will accost them to tell
them off.

"I tell them they're irresponsible. Don't make more babies!"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Yeh Ling-Ling, at an Orinda coffee house, talks about her push to limit
immigration to the United States.
[971104 LO 4B]
PHOTO: Orinda resident Yeh Ling-Ling, born in Vietnam, shrugs off criticism of
her support for limiting immigration.
[971104 LO 1B 3]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 5, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. RUNNING LOW ON LABOR IMMIGRANTS BETTER PREPARED THAN NATIVE-BORN TO BRING
SKILLS, MOTIVATION TO WORKPLACES

BYLINE: JOEL KOTKIN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 1100 words


LAST week's stock market gyrations grabbed the headlines, but America's most
important long-term economic problem does not involve bears and bulls, but
people. Like the persistent energy crisis that burdened the U.S. economy in the
1970s, deepening labor and skills shortages are creating bottlenecks that could
short-circuit not only current prosperity but also future business expansion.

These labor deficits, as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has pointed
out, could ignite "unsustainable" inflationary wage pressures and eat into
corporate profits. The aerospace manufacturer Boeing has already experienced a
taste of the problem. It recently announced an unexpectedly large $1.6 billion
charge against future earnings because of production delays associated with the
training of new, relatively unskilled employees.

Another bottleneck has emerged in the nation's transportation system. Partly due
to the decline of such blue-collar professions as dockworker and truck driver,
as well as poorly executed corporate mergers, deliveries of goods are taking far
longer than normal. Some cargo containers arriving in Southern California take
five times the usual three to four days to reach local customers. The result:
unmet schedules, reduced profits and decreasing overall competitiveness.

The nation's looming labor shortage is the result of three factors: demographic
trends, falling skill levels and declining worker values.

Perhaps the least understood aspect of the labor shortage relates to demographic
trends. Despite big increases in immigration during the past two decades,
America's work-force growth now stands at its lowest level this century, having
fallen from more than 2.5 percent annually, in the early 1980s, to roughly half
that today. By early next century, labor-force expansion could dip below 1
percent annually.

On the positive side, this diminishing supply of labor, along with a modest but
steady increase in jobs, has worked wonders on the U.S. unemployment rate. Yet,
at the same time, some observers fear that the growing labor shortfall will
force more and more companies to look abroad.

Seen in this light, recent attempts to curtail immigration may be the wrong
medicine for a country increasingly in need of the minds and brawn of newcomers.

Nowhere are shortages of this raw material more critical than in those niches of
economy dependent on highly skilled workers. According to the Information
Technology Association of America, there are now 190,000 unfilledhigh-tech jobs.
This situation will get worse: A net million such jobs are expected to be
created over the coming decade, but there will be virtually no increase in
supply.

Faced with such shortfalls, some companies are already going abroad to find
their brainiest labor. John Kennedy, for example, has one of the most famous of
American names, but his company, Marketing Information Systems of Evanston,
Ill., has been hiring its programmers in St. Petersburg, Russia. He has so many
U.S. competitors for the same labor pool that salaries in St. Petersburg have
risen 40 percent this year, to roughly $1,500 a month.

The talent gap is also fueling a permanent shift of high-tech and ancillary
industries from the supposedly dominant United States to countries such as
India, Israel, Ireland, the Philippines and even Mexico. In the early 1990s,
U.S. multinationals doubled their investments abroad, creating not only
lower-wage assembly jobs but also a plethora of new high-end positions. In the
early 1980s, for example, one in 40 among Intel's 2,000 Malaysian employees was
an engineer. A decade later, the proportion was one in six.

The roots of America's skills crisis also stem from changes in the national
culture. As the late Herman Kahn observed, U.S. popular culture in the 1960s
eschewed traditions of hard work, essential for technical competency, for more
"rewarding" professions such as law, journalism and medicine. Even as high-tech
has boomed, the number of Americans trained in engineering and computer science
has dropped dramatically, from a high of 50,000 in 1986 to 36,000 in 1994.

In essence, the United States is building a high-tech economy that Americans are
increasingly unable to operate. To date, this weakness has been obscured by the
immigration of educated professionals from East Asia, the Middle East and the
Indian subcontinent. Today, one-third of the engineers in Silicon Valley and
Orange County are from abroad. Nearly one-fifth of all undergraduates in
computer science, and half of all doctoral candidates, are citizens of foreign
countries.

But the nation's ability to live off the work ethic and knowledge of others is
ebbing fast. The end of the Cold War has diminished the flow of skilled
refugees; anti-immigrant hysteria, combined with the "family reunification"
obsession of the pro-immigrant lobbies, has worked to reduce the number of
highly skilled newcomers. The Immigration and Naturalization Service, meanwhile,
has cracked down on companies providing visas to skilled workers. Between 1992
and 1995, the inflow of skilled immigrants nationally dropped by 32 percent, and
nearly 75 percent in Silicon Valley.

The computer industry is not the only sector facing a skills shortage. Scores of
other industries are constrained by the unavailability of trained -- and
trainable -- workers. The recent shakeout in digital-effects companies in
Southern California, for example, can be partly traced to skilled-labor
shortfalls, which have driven the salaries of even novice digital animators to
upward of $80,000 annually.

Many of these problems result from a malfunctioning secondary-education system,
particularly in urban areas, where one in three young Americans go to school.
But many employers complain more about what they see as a decline in their
employees' basic work ethic, particularly among younger workers, and a fall-off
of interest in pursuing blue-collar professions.

Ironically, many of these complaints have their roots in the overall success of
the U.S. economy. With the unemployment rate below 5 percent, employers are
having to turn to marginal workers to fill jobs. Many of these workers,
particularly in urban areas, are inadequately educated or unmotivated or both.

It's difficult to see how welfare reform, which aims to introduce millions of
such marginal workers into the work force, can do anything but further dilute
labor quality, at least in the short term. Turning welfare recipients into
productive workers will be an arduous, tedious and time-consuming affair.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy and
the Pacific Research Institute. He wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 11, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CONVICTED OF KILLINGS OUTSIDE CIA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 112 words


A Pakistani immigrant was convicted of murder Monday night in Fairfax, Va., for
killing two CIA employees stuck in morning rush-hour traffic outside agency
headquarters nearly five years ago. Mir Amal Kansi, 33, faces a possible death
sentence. The jury that convicted him will weigh his fate today. Kansi was
convicted of killing Frank Darling, 28, and Lansing Bennett, 66, and injuring
two other CIA workers and a telephone-firm worker. Kansi was captured in June
after a 54-month search that reached to the mountains of Afghanistan and to the
deserts of Pakistan. His motive, as best it could be determined, was anger at
U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

            NOVEMBER 12, 1997 Wednesday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION PROTESTER HELD

BYLINE: From Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 119 words


An anti-immigration protester was arrested for trespassing Tuesday after he
climbed atop the Santa Cruz Veterans Memorial Building on Front Street and set
fire to a Mexican flag, police said. James Wainscoat, 56, was arrested without
incident after being detained by building administrators at 2:20 p.m., Lt. Joe
Haebe said.

Wainscoat apparently was participating in an anti-immigration demonstration at
the vets hall held by a small group called Immigration Control Advocates of
Northern California. Statements faxed to news agencies from the group billed the
protest as "a day of celebration" and a "Chicano flag burning." He was cited for
trespassing and released for the Tuesday incident, Haebe said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COAST BRIEFS

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               NOVEMBER 12, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-IMMIGRATION PROTESTER SEIZED

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 79 words


An anti-immigration protester was arrested for trespassing Tuesday after he
climbed atop the Santa Cruz Veterans Memorial Building on Front Street and set
fire to a Mexican flag, police said. James Wainscoat, 56, apparently was
participating in an anti-immigration demonstration at the veterans hall held by
a small group called Immigration Control Advocates of Northern California. He
was cited for trespassing and released for the Tuesday incident, Lt. Joe Haebe
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 20, 1997 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 TAKES ANOTHER WELL-DESERVED HIT ATTACKS ON IMMIGRANTS HAVE NOW BEEN
BLUNTED IN COURT AND IN CONGRESS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 510 words


A federal judge has hammered down the lid she put on the anti-immigrant
Proposition 187 shortly after it was passed. This is one proposition deserving
of burial.

Proposition 187 required public schools and social service and health agencies
to act as immigration cops, screening students and clients for citizenship. They
were to deny services to those suspected of being illegal and to turn them in.

The initiative has never gone into effect. Federal Judge Mariana Pfaelzer first
issued a temporary restraining order two weeks after the election. A year later
she threw out almost the whole thing. Only the federal government, she ruled,
has the authority to set policy on immigration, which is what Proposition 187
was trying to do.

Since then, the judge has been waiting for the state to make good on its claim
that it could implement 187 in a constitutional way. Or, in the view of 187's
defenders, the judge simply has been dithering.

At any rate, last week Pfaelzer again ruled on 187, and again found almost all
of it invalid, except for a part that refers to the manufacture and use of
counterfeit documentation. In the latest decision, the judge ruled that federal
welfare reform, passed in the interim, had made it even clearer that 187 had
impermissibly overreached.

In the federal welfare bill, Congress set the rules for "determining aliens'
eligibility for federal, state and local benefits and services," Pfaelzer wrote.
Congress, and not the states, has the power to "occupy the field of regulation
of government benefits to aliens."

Federal welfare reform took some of the same action as Proposition 187 would
have, denying welfare, food stamps and disability benefits to illegal
immigrants. But the federal law does not mandate that schools and social service
agencies turn in illegal immigrants.

Federal law also does not attempt to deny public education to illegal
immigrants. In fact, Proposition 187's attempt to exclude them was in direct
conflict with a 1982 Supreme Court decision.

The welfare reform law was part of a federal approach to immigration reform that
has been more moderate and compassionate than that embodied in Proposition 187.

Congress has lately scaled back another assault on immigrants. It has given
illegal immigrants who intend to apply for permanent status until Jan. 14, 1998,
to apply, pay a $1,000 "fine" and stay in the United States while the government
considers their application.

This stay-and-pay process, begun in 1994, was to sunset this year.

In addition, Congress has sent to the president legislation that would exempt
from deportation rules hundreds of thousands of Central Americans who arrived as
refugees during the guerrilla wars of the 1980s.

Gov. Pete Wilson and others seem determined to appeal the rejection of
Proposition 187 and to continue to scapegoat illegal immigrants. But the worst
of the attacks on illegal immigrants, embodied in Proposition 187, has been
blunted in the courts and in Congress, to the benefit of America and would-be
Americans.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 21, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CARDENAS COURTS AREA VOTERS STATE'S IMMIGRANTS SEEN AS CRUCIAL VOICES IN
MEXICO'S UPCOMING PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 827 words


On a whirlwind visit Thursday to the Bay Area, Mexican opposition leader
Cuauhtemoc Cardenas said California's growing immigrant Mexican population could
become a decisive voting bloc in Mexico's next presidential election.

"We could see more than a million Mexican voters (going to the polls) in this
part of the country," said Cardenas, the mayor-elect of Mexico City, in an
interview at Stanford University. "This is a place that can decisively influence
an election."

Last summer, the Mexican Congress approved the principle that Mexicans living
abroad would have the right to vote in Mexico elections in the year 2000. A host
of complex logistical issues must be settled in the interim that could jinx
those plans, but some supporters say those details could be ironed out as soon
as March.

Cardenas' visit itself, on the eve of taking power, is a tacit acknowledgment of
the importance of the immigrant community in California, said Jesus Martinez, a
political scientist at Santa Clara University who helped coordinate the visit.

In December, Cardenas will become the first elected mayor of the city where one
quarter of Mexico's population lives and works. In the interim, he has traveled
abroad, seeking to strengthen contacts with old friends in the United States,
Europe and Latin America.

With his mayoral victory, Cardenas has become one of the most visible symbols of
a new, more pluralistic power structure in Mexico. The same July elections that
brought him to power also ended the ruling party's control of the lower house in
Mexico's Congress for the first time since it came to power in 1929. His post is
often thought of as the second most powerful political position in the country.

"He's become the lightning rod or key individual identified with the
democratization movement in Mexico," said Andres Jimenez, a political scientist
at the University of California-Berkeley.

During the first day of a two-day Bay Area tour, the longtime dissenter spoke of
the new opportunities for opposition leaders in a country dominated by the same
ruling party for almost 70 years. The founder of Mexico's Revolutionary
Democratic Party, or PRD, and twice unsuccessful presidential candidate,
Cardenas promised to bring a more participatory style of government to a country
with a tradition of authoritarian rule.

"I'm very conscious that the work we accomplish will have an impact on our
opportunities, whether favorable or not, not just in presidential elections in
the year 2000 but also our role in the political life in the country," he said.

Cardenas said he would seek participation from the people in governing. "We will
go looking for and testing opportunities for popular participation," he said.
"We don't have a lot of experience with that in Mexico.""

In his quest for political office, Cardenas, who broke with the ruling party in
the late 1980s, has faced political chicanery, corruption and even the slaying
of his supporters. Victory has clearly been good for him.

During his visit, the sometimes dour speaker spoke decisively and appeared
relaxed and contented. He received a standing ovation at Stanford University and
warm applause elsewhere.

Underscoring the challenges he will soon face as mayor, Mexican authorities
Thursday were contending with the aftermath of a 14-hour mutiny by an elite unit
of some 300 members of Mexico City's police force. The action is just the latest
upheaval in a city that seems to encapsulate all of the developing country's
most intractable problems: a corrupt and out-of-control police force; soaring
unemployment and crime; unbearable smog; and powerful local party bosses who
have the capacity to paralyze the city with strikes and demonstrations.

His top priority, he said, is addressing citizens' demands for security. To do
so, he said, he will have to fight organized crime rings that have infiltrated
the city's police force.

"My first promise," he said, "is to fight government corruption."

In a speech at San Francisco's Victoria Theater earlier Thursday, Cardenas told
immigrants that he would work to make sure their right to vote would become a
reality.

His audience came from all walks of life. Bilingual teacher Ruben Quezada came
to hear him from Oakland, bringing his restless 2-year-old son. Born in the
United States, he said Cardenas is a voice for Mexican-Americans as well as
Mexicans.

At Stanford, Mexican master's of business administration student Heriberto
Diarte said the clean elections that brought Cardenas to power are part of a
shift in the balance of power in his country that has given the public faith
that they can shape their own destiny at the ballot box.

Unemployed Mexican immigrant German Garcia Angel walked over to hear Cardenas
from a homeless shelter in San Francisco. His clothes were crumpled but his face
was beaming.

"We don't have anyone who supports us," he said. "Hopefully, we'll have an
advocate in him."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: JULIE PLASENCIA -- MERCURY NEWS
Mexico City's mayor-elect, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, takes audience questions
Thursday at a town hall meeting in San Francisco.
[971121 LO 4B]
PHOTO: Mexico City's mayor-elect, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas.
[971121 LO 1B 2]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               NOVEMBER 26, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. WILL PROBE ROUNDUP OF LATINOS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 78 words


A federal probe will be launched into potential civil rights abuses during a
roundup in Arizona of a group of illegal immigrants and U.S. citizens of
Latin-American descent, officials said Tuesday.

Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meissner said an
investigation will begin immediately, after an Arizona attorney general report
alleging that individuals were targeted during the July sweep in Chandler,
Ariz., because of their ethnicity.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                NOVEMBER 29, 1997 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFGHAN FATHER RELEASED FROM DETENTION BY INS UNCERTAINTY: MAN'S DEPORTATION IS
POSTPONED.

BYLINE: SANDY KLEFFMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 916 words


The worry remains, but laughter has returned to the Mayer household in Newark.

The family breadwinner, 70-year-old Yacob Mayer, was released from Immigration
and Naturalization Service custody at Lerdo Detention Facility near Bakersfield
just in time to enjoy a Thanksgiving dinner with his family.

Mayer remains under orders to be deported to war-torn Afghanistan, an action
that threatens to rip the family apart.

But the INS has concluded it can't obtain travel papers for him from a country
with no central government, no constitution and several competing ruling
factions. So on Nov. 21, INS officials decided to free Mayer until such papers
become available.

"It just seemed the most humane thing to do," INS spokeswoman Sharon Rummery
said. "If we can find a way to transport him, then he will go."

Mayer's release thrilled the dozens of supporters who have written letters and
lobbied federal officials on his behalf. Friends fear Mayer's life would be in
jeopardy if he is forced to return.

His deportation also would leave remaining family members -- his wife, four
daughters and a severely disabled son -- with an agonizing decision: Do they
attempt to accompany him despite the beatings, kidnappings, rapes and severe
restrictions on women that are commonplace in Afghanistan? Or do they risk never
seeing their husband and father again?

The INS ruled that Mayer should be deported because he told a fateful lie on his
application for political asylum. At the suggestion of friends, he failed to
reveal the family had lived in Germany for five years before arriving in the
United States in March 1993. He said instead that they fled directly from
Afghanistan.

The irony is that if he had simply told the truth, immigration attorneys say,
the family almost certainly would have been granted political asylum. Instead,
the Board of Immigration Appeals ruled in July that every member of the Mayer
family could have a rehearing on their request for political asylum -- except
Yacob. His request was denied.

Worsening conditions
The board noted that the situation in Afghanistan has worsened in recent months.
Two-thirds of the country has been controlled since September 1996, by the
Taliban, a militant Islamic group that hopes to impose its own
ultra-conservative interpretation of the Koran. That interpretation includes
banning women from going to school, working and venturing outside the house
unless traveling to a specific destination, such as a market.

Men are required to grow bushy beards and women must shroud themselves in
head-to-toe garments. Afghans have been beaten for violating such rules. The
ongoing civil war, meanwhile, has resulted in numerous political killings.

Sixteen-year-old Fahima Mayer, a junior at Kennedy High School in Fremont who
was among the top four graduates of Walters Junior High School two years ago,
noted that if she could avoid being beaten or killed for her short hair and
Western looks upon returning to Afghanistan, she would spend her days sitting in
a room with little to do.

"It would be like a prison -- maybe even worse than that," she said.

Capitola resident Flavia de Miranda has never met the family, but she wrote
every federal legislator in California asking that the family be allowed to
remain here. Miranda said she was moved by newspaper reports revealing that the
Mayers have never been on welfare and that the girls have been top performers in
school.

"The breakup of a family is an absurdity -- especially a family which is doing
so well," de Miranda said. "These are the kind of people we want to have here.
Now, due to a minor mistake they made, we are sending them to a war or breaking
up their family."

Keeping busy
Mayer has been doing odd upholstery and carpentry jobs to support the household.
Two of his daughters, Wasima, 19, and Nasima, 18, graduated from Kennedy High
School in June and are attending Ohlone College in Fremont full time while
working part time. Zeada Mayer, 31, works two jobs.

Mayer said he had trouble sleeping during the two months he was in jail because
of worries that his family could not make enough money to support themselves in
his absence. One of their two cars broke down, and they didn't eat meat for 25
days, they said.

Aref Mayer, his 37-year-old son who is severely mentally disabled, grew
depressed. Aref used to accompany his father to work every day and couldn't
understand why he was missing.

"I was really homesick," Mayer said. "I really wanted to come back."

Mayer said that if he is deported, his family would return with him because they
could not survive financially by themselves in the United States.

Duane Bay Sr., father of East Palo Alto Councilman Duane Bay, put up the $10,000
bond that enabled Mayer to be released from Lerdo.

"We have worries, but I found out that I have many good friends," Mayer said
Friday.

Mayers' daughters, who two months ago could not discuss their future without
bursting into tears, were laughing and joking with their father Friday. Mayer
said his dream for them is that they become doctors or engineers and contribute
to the community here where people have been so good to them.

"We are really happy right now," Wasima Mayer said. "Thank you very much to all
the people who helped us through this problem."

But she added that the day before her father was released, her mother dreamed he
would be freed and then rearrested. The family is praying the dream won't come
true.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA -- MERCURY NEWS
Yacob Mayer sits with his wife, Shafiqa, in their Newark home.
[971129 LO 1B 5]

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 19, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW REGULATIONS LINK IMMIGRATION TO FAMILY INCOME

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 105 words


Beginning today, U.S. residents seeking to bring a foreign relative here
permanently will have to prove that their family income is at least 25 percent
above the federal poverty level. The new regulations implementing a 1996
immigration law also make sponsors of new immigrants liable for repaying any
public benefits the immigrants receive, including food stamps, Medicaid and cash
payments. Backers of the new provisions say it is only fair that immigrants not
become public burdens on their arrival. But critics complain the changes will
disqualify thousands of lower-income Americans from reuniting with their
families.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 26, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT RESISTS COMPULSION TO BE MERRY AND BRIGHT AMERICANS FRANTICALLY PURSUE
HAPPY HOLIDAYS

BYLINE: SARITA SARVATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 708 words


I still look back fondly on my first Christmas in America, the Christmas when I
didn't know I was supposed to be happy. It was the one Christmas when I could
safely feel like an outsider without noticing the oppressive absence of a
family. It was the only Christmas when the excitement of my arrival in America
far outweighed the longing for my native country.

Alas, by next Christmas, I had gone native enough to participate in odd rituals
such as the late night walking of shopping malls, and the gawking at gift shops
full of Royal Doulton tea sets, even though I had no one to buy them for.
Because, by then, the American media had corrupted me to believe that I had to
buy something for someone in order to celebrate Christmas.

And in the midst of this shopping compulsion, and the watching of sappy old
movies on TV, there often erupted deep within me a sensation of being a
foreigner in a strange land. To this day, in the midst of the opening of
presents with my young children, a sense of utter displacement overcomes me.This
sense of alienation, the feeling of belonging and yet not belonging, is what
signifies the holiday season for us immigrants, I suppose.

Growing up in a free India, I had of course been aware of Christmas, the
religious festival of our erstwhile British masters. On Christmas mornings, a
secular India woke up to the sounds of carols on All India Radio. On Christmas
evenings, the whole country watched electric lights go up on the roofs of
Christian houses. But nothing could have prepared me for the shock of an
American Christmas. Turkeys on sale, tinsel on office walls, Christmas trees in
women's earrings, Santas in used car lots! And the endless crooning of "White
Christmas" on Muzak, stirring up a frenzy of longing for that idyllic family
moment which never came. It seemed not so much a festival as a parody of it.

How different the Indian holidays were! During the Festival of Lights, we lit
clay oil lamps and put them on doorsteps and windowsills. We sprinkled the
courtyard and covered it with rangoli designs made of colored rice powder. We
visited the neighbors to eat Diwali treats and lit firecrackers at night. But
despite the social events, Diwali remained a deeply personal festival, with each
day reserved for a special familial relationship. On Bhaubij, brothers traveled
hundreds of miles to see their sisters. On Padva, fathers blessed their
daughters. Families were neither happy nor unhappy, they simply were. And we
accepted them as such, not as perfect or imperfect, but as real families, with
the joys and sorrows and disappointments that accompanied them; there were no
cathode ray tubes prescribing the recipe for an ideal family holiday. This is
what distinguishes an American festival from festivals in other countries, I
think.

New Year's is a uniquely American phenomenon as well. The harbinger of a new
Gregorian year meant little in most traditional societies, since the new lunar
year began at the time of the harvest. In India, the full harvest moon was
marked by celebrations of all-night singing and dancing. On the subsequent new
moon, people lit bonfires and drank homemade bhang liquor. The New Year's
holiday was not an anticipation of things to come but a celebration of the ebb
and flow of life itself.

The end of a year for so many people in America means another year of not
finding the perfect romance or the perfect career. New Year's resolutions bring
with them the bittersweet taste of promises unkept, desires unquenched, longings
unfulfilled. The anticipation of Christmas and New Years's is worked up to such
a feverish pitch that reality always turns out to be anti-climactic.

It is not too late to turn the American holidays into a joyous celebration of
the seasons. Why not take a deep breath and make a New Year's resolution to not
visit the shopping malls next Christmas, but to take the children instead to
watch the whales, or let them saunter among the live Christmas trees in the
forest rather than the dead ones on the tube? Alan Greenspan might complain of
it as being a recipe for a grand old recession, but it might be worth it just to
get in touch with ourselves as creatures of the earth and its everlasting
seasons.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: San Leandro resident Sarita Sarvate came to the United States from
Nagpur, India, in 1976 to attend graduate school at the University of
California-Berkeley. She is a senior policy analyst for the Public Utilities
Commission and a freelance writer.

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 DECEMBER 28, 1997 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LAOTIANS FIGHT CYCLE OF YOUTH VIOLENCE IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY SPLIT BY TEEN GANGS

BYLINE: T.T. NHU, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1148 words


The tensions have been simmering for at least a decade.

In one sense, it all began on the Laotian New Year in January 1987, when a
20-year-old Asian gang member from Oakland was shot and killed by an Asian gang
member from Richmond. In retaliation, a teenager wounded another boy from
Richmond with six bullets.

Other skirmishes over the years resulted in injuries, but no fatalities, until
July of this year, when 7-year-old Sou Sio Saephanh was killed in a drive-by
shooting in Oakland.

Two weeks ago at the Berkeley pier, 15-year-old Anousone Songkham was stabbed to
death, allegedly by five youths from Oakland who are now in custody.

Richmond vs. Oakland, tit for tat -- it's been a cycle of violence that adults,
and even some of the former warriors, are struggling to break.

Except for the New Year's shootings, all of those involved are Iu Mien, an
ethnic minority from the highlands of Laos who have been immigrating to the
United States since the end of the Indochina war. About 1 million Iu Mien live
in southern China, Laos, Vietnam and Thailand, and have always been a people
apart, a minority within a minority. Most of those in the United States live on
the West Coast, in Richmond, Oakland, Sacramento and Merced, with a scattering
in Oregon and Washington.

"This has been going on as long as I can remember," said Mae Saeteurn, an
18-year-old Iu Mien who grew up in the San Antonio section of Oakland, where
about 2,500 Iu Mien live. A like number live in Richmond.

In their mountain homeland, the Iu Mien were farmers. During the Vietnam war,
many were recruited as mercenaries by the CIA. After the end of the war in 1975,
they were resettled on the West Coast. The majority have been on welfare since
they arrived in the United States in the early 1980s.

Resettling in the inner cities, where their role models were gangs of all
persuasion, an entire generation of young Iu Mien is now adrift in America.
California Youth Authority figures for 1990 show that the incarceration rate for
young Iu Mien -- 1 out of every 382 -- is higher than that for any other ethnic
group.

Because they traditionally marry at the onset of puberty, girls drop out of
school at the age of 14 or 15 to start families. In an agricultural society
where the mortality rate was high, large families were needed to work in the
fields. Ironically, having numerous children now, while on welfare, keeps many
illiterate Iu Mien in a vicious cycle of poverty from which they are still
struggling to free themselves.

'Like prison'
Education is not proving to be much of a solution. "School in Oakland is like a
prison yard," said "Nai," a 20-year-old ex-gang member and ex-convict who now
counsels other young people at the East Bay Asian Youth Center in Oakland. He
doesn't want his real name used because he fears retaliation from his former
street-mates. "You're not taught how to get along, or anything else."

About 30 percent of Iu Mien youth do not finish high school, according to the
East Bay Asian Youth Center in Oakland.

"The potential is there," said Kal Phan, a Richmond High School teacher and an
Iu Mien. More than half the college-preparatory classes at Richmond High are Iu
Mien students, he said, but "because of their negative circumstances, many
talented kids are going to waste."

"A lot of people don't finish school," said Saeteurn, who dropped out two years
ago. "They don't know right from wrong, don't listen to their parents and don't
know what they want out of life. You hang with a big group that gives you the
feeling of power, but it's only street smarts."

Unfamiliar with America, unassimilated and unemployed, Iu Mien parents are
losing control of their teenagers. Most of the young Iu Mien were born in the
United States or came when they were very young.

"We don't know about the struggle the parents went through to get here and how
much they are struggling to get by," Saeteurn said.

Ineffective tactics
Unlike many American parents, Iu Mien don't negotiate with or ground their kids.

"They only lecture us, and most of us don't listen. It's too sad to hear all the
things that are wrong with us, " Saeteurn said.

Caught between opposing worlds, young Iu Mien adapted and imitated the culture
they knew best -- the gang life. For Iu Mien youth, the hostility isn't over
drugs or turf as much as a matter of attitude, according to officer Robert
Sayaphupha, a Chinese-Laotian who was with Oakland's Community Policing Services
for 10 years.

"A lot has to do with posturing," he observed.

"Signals push buttons," said Nai, the ex-gang member. He acknowledged that drugs
are sometimes involved, but said attitude seems to be the primary instigator for
the tension. "Eye contact, hand gestures, anything can set it off and end up in
a fight with stabbings and guns."

This is what happened Dec. 12 at 10 p.m. at the Berkeley pier -- supposedly
neutral territory -- when members of opposing groups accidentally ran into each
other: A fistfight started, knives were brandished, baseball bats materialized
and moments later, Anousone Songkham, 15, was beaten and stabbed to death. His
five alleged assailants are all Iu Mien under the age of 20.

Temporary peace
Elders among the young Iu Mien -- those in their 20s -- made peace a couple of
years ago. At a party to which both warring parties were invited, the "older" Iu
Miens proposed a moratorium.

"We're all Miens in this together," they reasoned.

Until the drive-by shooting in July, things had been relatively peaceful in both
cities.

While Asians have been viewed as a model minority, poor Southeast Asians have
become an "in between" generation, falling through the cracks. Badly educated,
with no expectations, no past or future, they have nowhere to go and nothing to
do.

It's a situation that Moung Saetern, education director for the East Bay Asian
Youth Center, hopes to reverse. For the coming Lunar New Year -- Jan. 28, 1998
-- the Lao Iu Mien Culture Association will convene "old" gang members and ask
them once again to help end the tension.

The center, founded in 1976, provides support services -- counseling, tutoring,
health care and legal assistance -- to 160 young people in Oakland. By next
year, it hopes to expand the services to 400 adolescents.

A guiding light
It's still the tip of the iceberg, but Saetern is hopeful that the center can
provide guidance and a way out to the desperately lost.

"The only way this is going to end is when people get decent jobs," said Nai.
"Give a kid a job and he don't have to hang anymore."

For Mae Saeteurn, the center has been a life raft in a troubled sea. She's
getting her high school equivalency certificate, and has a fiance who has two
steady jobs and no bad habits.

"When you have someone good to keep you company," she said, "you don't have to
hang out and be bad anymore."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                January 15, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE CITY OF BUSINESS ANGLES IMMIGRATION IS A BIG PART OF L.A.'S ECONOMY

BYLINE: GEORGE F. WILL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 788 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


IT SAYS much about modern government that one of the nation's most successful
elected officials is one of the least powerful. And it says something about
political leadership today that that official is this city's mayor, Richard
Riordan, who has a personal library of 40,000 books and is given to citing Moses
Maimonides (d. 1204) on "the eighth level of giving" (giving that makes the
recipient self-sufficient). Lately he has been coping with a multilayered
controversy about gasoline-powered leaf blowers.

Many middle-class Southern Californians tolerate immigrants when there is lawn
work to be done. Much of it is done by immigrants, whose wages are depressed by
competition from the constantly growing reserve army of other immigrants. To
maximize their efficiency, the lawn workers use the blowers, which make noise
and other pollution.

Banning gas-powered blowers will mean that the lawn workers will earn less by
servicing fewer lawns, or that lawn owners will pay more per lawn for
maintenance. During this controversy -- a conflict of class, ethnicity and
hypocrisy characteristic of this collage city -- it was the job of the mayor,
the only visible symbol of community, to seem sympathetic to all sides. Which
Riordan seems to have done.

Public empathizing -- and "acting as if I had the power," he says -- may seem a
humble task. However, such tasks are the stuff of municipal governance, and of a
mayor's life in a city where the city council and various agencies are notably
non-subservient. For Riordan, being an ameliorative presence amounts to
practicing what he, a Catholic intellectual (a philosophy major at Princeton),
preaches. That is the theology of G.K. Chesterton, who distilled it to this: I
am important, and everyone else is, too.

Besides, bite-size actions, such as spreading a balm of sympathy in the leaf
blower dispute, nibble away at tensions in a city that should be enjoying this
momentary respite from larger calamities -- a moment for worrying about
micro-problems like leaf blowers. This was, after all, the first city to suffer
a major postwar riot (Watts, 1965). It is the only city to have suffered two
such riots. (The 1992 riot, after the first trial acquitted the policemen
charged in the Rodney King beating, was the nation's worst since the New York
City draft riots of 1863.) The Northridge earthquake of 1994 was the worst -- in
terms of the dollar value of destruction -- natural disaster in the nation's
history.

Next? The Eastern Sierra, 300 miles north of here, California's most
volcanically active region, is the head of a vulnerable network of streams,
reservoirs and aqueducts that supplies two-thirds of this city's water. Seismic
activity has been increasing ominously there.

Meanwhile, Riordan, a Republican in his second term, can savor the not
inconsiderable success of a steep reduction in violent crime, largely because,
he says, so many of the relatively small cadre of violent people are now in
prison. And he says city government has become less of a job-killing machine.

The bureaucratic drag of permit processes has been diminished enough that movie
production is up 60 percent since Riordan became mayor. That paradox --
measuring success in terms of movies made in the movie capital -- leads to
another: Success in economic revitalization has required a surge of upscale
immigration to this capital of immigration, bringing people (particularly from
Ireland, Israel and India) to fill some of the more than 30,000 unfilled jobs in
the computer industry.

Perhaps more efficiencies are needed in a city where, Riordan says, some hotels
send their linens 120 miles to Tijuana to be laundered by low-wage workers.
However, Los Angeles has passed New York City as a center of the garment
industry because immigrant workers -- Riordan calls them the "backbone" of the
city's recovery -- have transformed this city as radically as immigration has
transformed Miami.

Fred Siegel, in his book "The Future Once Happened Here: New York, D.C., L.A.,
and the Fate of America's Big Cities," notes that in 1960, five years before the
liberalization of immigration laws, Los Angeles had the largest percentage of
native-born white Protestants of any major U.S. city. Only 9 percent of the
residents were foreign born. By 1980 the percentage was 27; by 1990, 40. About
750,000 of the city's 3.5 million residents entered the country in the 1980s.

Riordan says part of his job is answering "Nothing" when asked what he can do to
solve particular neighborhoods' problems (abandoned buildings, aggressive
panhandling, graffiti). Nothing much, that is, beyond bestowing recognition by
expressing empathy. Which is, come to think about it, a lot.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
George F. Will is a Washington Post columnist.

GRAPHIC: Photo

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 February 6, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BRITONS WANT POOH REPATRIATED PROPRIETARY POLS ON BOTH SIDES OF POND COVET
IMMIGRANT BEAR OF LITTLE BRAIN

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 419 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Stubbornly refusing to share their toys, politicians on both sides of the
Atlantic lost their heads Thursday over a bear of very little brain.

Winnie the Pooh, the lovable, huggable bear whose adventures have delighted
children for decades, is at the center of an international brouhaha that began
when a member of the British Parliament demanded the return of the original
bear.

The original Pooh, along with stuffed friends Eeyore, Kanga, Piglet and Tigger,
has been on display for years in the New York Public Library. New York's
pugnacious Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said the stuffed toys, the inspiration for
British subject A.A. Milne's children's books, are American now.

"Winnie the Pooh is an example of the very best in immigration," said Giuliani,
clutching a jar of honey. "He's in about as nice a place as he can be."

He added, "America and England have had two wars, and we are 2-0. We don't want
a war over this."

Labor Party legislator Gwyneth Dunwoody, whose one-woman crusade to bring the
toys back to England started the hubbub earlier this week,responded: "I am happy
to do battle with the mayor of New York, any day he likes."

The gentle jousting spread as far as Washington, where Prime Minister Tony Blair
said on ABC's "Good Morning America" that the issue would be "down the agenda"
in his talks with President Clinton.

"I'm sure they're perfectly well-looked-after where they are," Blair said.

New York Rep. Nita Lowey introduced a resolution in Congress condemning any
attempt to swipe the animals. "The Brits have their head in a honey jar if they
think they are taking Pooh out of New York City," she said.

Milne began writing the books in 1926 for his son, Christopher Robin, who
figures prominently in the stories. The father sent the five stuffed animals to
the United States in 1947 for a tour organized by American publisher E.P. Dutton
and Co. Milne eventually gave them to Dutton, which donated them to the public
library.

The stuffed animals returned to London once, in 1969, when they were briefly on
display at the Victoria and Albert Museum.

"Neither A.A. Milne nor Christopher Robin had any regrets about them living
permanently in the United States," said Gyles Brandreth, a former Tory
legislator and founder of the Teddy Bear Museum in Stratford-Upon-Avon.

But Malcolm de Selincourt, a cousin of Christopher Robin's, said: "Winnie the
Pooh should be in England. His rightful place is here, in the House at Pooh
Corner or under the pine trees."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Tigger, Kanga, Pooh, Eeyore and Piglet, who immigrated to New York in 1947 to
reside at the New York Public Library.
[980206 FR 4A 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 24, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE BEST OVERSIGHT STIRS UP CHANGES, NOT SCANDAL

BYLINE: SARA FRITZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 648 words


NEARLY two years ago, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials hotly
disputed allegations that substantial numbers of immigrants were being granted
citizenship despite criminal records that should have disqualified them. One
top-ranking INS official insisted that the number of criminals naturalized was
"very, very, very small."

Those denials certainly ring hollow now that the INS has released the results of
an audit showing that at least 6,323 new citizens were naturalized improperly
between August 1995 and September 1996. Some had criminal convictions that
should have disqualified them; others had lied about arrests that in and of
themselves would not have been disqualifying.

In fact, the report by the accounting firm of KPMG Peat Marwick suggests that as
many as 38,850 people were improperly naturalized during the period in question.

My purpose in pointing out the discrepancy is not simply to demonstratethat
government officials occasionally try to understate problems in their agencies.
Instead, I do it to praise a tiny subcommittee of the House Government Reform
and Oversight Committee, whose oversight was responsible for shining a bright
light on the problems the INS tried to sweep under the rug.

If members and staff of the Subcommittee on National Security, International
Affairs and Criminal Justice had not worked so tirelessly to demonstrate the
inaccuracy of the INS' public statements, hardened criminals might still
routinely be receiving the highest reward the United States can bestow on
anyone: citizenship. It was the energy of the congressional oversight process --
not the honesty of officials at the INS -- that was chiefly responsible for
exposing the problem.

In recent months, House Republicans themselves have conceded shortcomings in
their ability to carry out their oversight responsibilities. Majority Leader
Dick Armey, R-Texas, admits his members have not yet developed the oversight
skills that the Democrats had when they were in the majority. Former Rep.
William Clinger, R-Pa., who chaired the Government Reform and Oversight
Committee in the 104th Congress, said last fall that he thought Republicans had
put "too much emphasis on the scandal side of things."

Although Democrats have criticized the oversight hearings being conducted these
days by House Republicans as too partisan, that is not really a fair shot. Even
the most blatantly partisan motives can yield effective congressional oversight.

Certainly, Rep. John D. Dingell, D-Mich., who chaired the Energy and Commerce
Committee while Democrats controlled Congress, often made little effort to
conceal partisan motives in his use of the oversight process. Yet Dingell stands
as the acknowledged master of the art, responsible for pinpointing a wide range
of deficiencies in the operation of federal programs.

The House subcommittee's inquiry into allegations that the INS was naturalizing
criminals had a thoroughly partisan motivation. It stemmed from the Republicans'
conviction that the Clinton administration was using the naturalization process
to fatten the Democratic rolls in states such as California and Florida, where
the immigrant vote is plentiful enough to make a difference in the election.

But unlike Senate and House hearings into Clinton's alleged campaign finance
abuses, the INS probe also had the purpose of improving the way the government
operates. The INS instituted new practices in response to the inquiry. Sadly,
the campaign finance hearings were held despite a decision by GOP leaders that
the probe should not lead to any significant change in campaign financing rules.

There is a crucial difference between oversight that stirs up scandal for
scandal's sake and oversight intended to call a halt to bad practices in the
government. It is sad that Congress devotes so much time, money and attention to
the former.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Sara Fritz writes for Congressional Quarterly.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 11, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS FOCUS MOVES EAST FROM SAN DIEGO AREA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 90 words


Declaring the United States' busiest corridor for illegal entry virtually under
control, the Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner announced
Tuesday the deployment of 1,000 new Border Patrol agents -- not one of them
headed for San Diego. Citing the drop in border apprehensions by more than 40
percent to 284,000 in the area last year and the doubling of agents to 2,244
since 1993, officials signaled a major strategy shift by sending two-thirds of
the new personnel to Texas and New Mexico, adding just 134 in California.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 12, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DIFFICULTY EXPRESSED IN DEPORTATION APPEAL

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 206 words

"How do you appeal a case without access to the evidence?" asked Niels Frenzen,
one of the attorneys for six Iraqi exiles being held at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service lockup in Los Angeles. Relying on secret information from
FBI agents and other government officials, a Los Angeles judge earlier this week
ordered the deportation of the six, who say they were involved in a failed 1996
coup against Saddam Hussein. Judge D.D. Sitgraves found that the six "pose
security risks to the United States," though the basis of her ruling remained
largely concealed.

Attorneys representing the six say all face torture and execution if returned to
Iraq and will probably appeal the ruling. All six are seeking political asylum
in the United States based on likely persecution in Iraq. However, their
appeals, like their failed defense, face a major barrier: The government is
again entitled to use its classified evidence and keep the material from defense
scrutiny -- a situation unique in U.S. jurisprudence. The six Iraqis were among
more than 6,000 who escaped to neighboring Turkey and were airlifted to Guam in
1996 after Hussein crushed coup efforts and sent troops to rout the CIA-backed
opposition in northern Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 18, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION IS A HAZARD TO OUR ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: BEN ZUCKERMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 764 words


WE in the Sierra Club have a dream -- of clear free-flowing streams, of
protected towering wilderness, of bracing clean air and of stability in the
lives of all. Sadly, reality is quite the opposite.

Last June, the president of the U.N. General Assembly opened Earth Summit II
saying: "We as a species -- as a planet -- are teetering on the edge, living
unsustainably and perpetuating inequity, and may soon pass the point of no
return."

What causes environmental damage? Not surprisingly, it's too many people using
too much energy and materials. The United States is now the third most populous
country after China and India. Because the average American consumes so much, we
270 million Americans have as much worldwide environmental impact as the more
than 4 billion people who live in all of the developing countries of the world
combined. To mitigate our impact, we must cut high individual consumption and
stabilize the U.S. population.

Our population is growing more quickly than that of any major industrialized
country. We should give incentives to families to have no more than two
children. But, according to the Census Bureau, post-1970 immigrants (when
Congress raised immigration levels) and their descendants will account for more
than 80 percent of U.S. population growth between now and mid-21st century,
when, at present growth rates, our population could exceed half a billion.

This is why many environmentalists believe it essential to change U.S.
immigration laws. And this is why the more than half a million members of the
Sierra Club are now voting on what has been called a "litmus test" of "huge
importance": An affirmative vote will direct club leadership to address the
environmental consequences of U.S. immigration policies.

Virtually all environmentalists recognize the huge negative impact of the ever
increasing American population. So why has it been so difficult for the Sierra
Club to take a stand on the immigration issue? Diane Wittenberg, CEO of Edison
EV, speaking at a University of California, Los Angeles, symposium last April,
captured the essence of the problem when she pointed out that most Americans are
"environmental-ish" rather than true "environmentalists." Americans give plenty
of lip service to the environment and perhaps recycle a few items, but when push
comes to shove, the environment takes a back seat. Even many Sierra Club
members, without careful thought, rank certain non-environmental issues higher
on their agendas than the environment.

Charges of racism and elitism are often leveled at those who would limit
immigration. Given that numerous polls have shown that a clear majority of black
and Latino Americans favor substantial reductions in both legal and illegal
immigration, how can it be racist to agree? Given that these polls show that it
is the poorest Americans who most strongly favor drastic cuts in immigration
levels, how can it be elitist to agree?

The Wilderness Society and a few other environmental groups have stated publicly
that ecological sustainability requires lower immigration rates. But most
leading environmental organizations are merely environmental-ish and, like the
Sierra Club, have remained quiet on this subject. Compounding the problem are
two other environmental-ish players: the liberal media and "environmental"
politicians like Vice President Al Gore.

Gore and the Democratic Party support continued high levels of immigration and
have rushed to naturalize immigrants even when that meant shortcuts on checking
their criminal records or legal status. In the short run this will produce more
Democratic voters, but in the longer run such policies will leadinexorably,
sometime in the 22nd century, to a nation of 1 billion Americans with their
highly polluting lifestyle. The five do-nothing years since Earth Summit I
coincide precisely with those of the Clinton administration.

The liberal media have published millions of words about the trials and
tribulations of individual immigrants. While individuals deserve compassion, the
media should also illuminate how so very many millions of immigrants, eager to
embrace the highly consumptive American lifestyle, impact the environment both
here and abroad. In an avalanche, each unique, beautiful snowflake pleads not
guilty.

Politicians and leading news media and environmental organizations should be
engaging in serious dialogues that will produce an effective policy that will
stabilize the U.S. population; otherwise we can only anticipate a worse report
card for the U.S. at Earth Summit III.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Ben Zuckerman, a member of UCLA's Institute of the Environment, is an initiator
of the Sierra Club immigration vote now in progress. He wrote this for the Los
Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ANTHONY D'ADAMO - NEWSDAY

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 21, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW JEWISH IMMIGRANTS LEFT AN INDELIBLE STAMP ON HOLLYWOOD

BYLINE: RON MILLER, Mercury News Television Editor

SECTION: SILICON VALLEY LIFE; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1303 words


AN OUTLAW band sweeps down on a family of unarmed American pioneers and
massacres them in a 1960s Italian-made Western. Were the filmmakers
unconsciously passing along the nightmare visions of 19th-century Jews whose
families were massacred by Cossacks?

That argument is forcefully made in "Hollywoodism: Jews, Movies and the American
Dream," which premieres Sunday night on A&E. Made by Israeli-born Canadian
Simcha Jacobovici, the film is adapted from a provocative book by American film
critic Neal Gabler: "An Empire of Their Own: How the Jews Invented Hollywood"
(Anchor paperback, $16.95).

Gabler's thesis, put simply, is that "Hollywoodism" may be the dominant culture
in the United States, if not the world -- and that it was mostly the creation of
the Jewish immigrants who ran six major motion picture studios in the Los
Angeles area in the early part of this century, men who were born within 500
miles of each other in Europe and wound up living within 15 miles of each other
in Los Angeles.

If this sounds suspiciously like another spin on the old anti-Semitic
"international Jewish conspiracy" theory, it should be pointed out that the
studio moguls Gabler and Jacobovici credit with building Hollywood also spent
most of their lives trying to be assimilated into mainstream American culture
while resisting the pleas of Jewish organizations to make more films about
Jewish culture.

"In many ways, they accepted the prejudice of America in the process of being
accepted," Gabler explained in a recent session with TV critics. "They didn't
want what we now call a pluralistic America. They had a melting pot model in
mind, in which there was an American type."

Gabler, who appears in the film, believes the ambitious young immigrants seized
upon the notion that the United States was still a frontier land where immigrant
cultures were being absorbed into the new idea of freedom for all. They rushed
into the infant movie business because it was new and had fewbarriers to Jews,
then moved it West where American culture was still forming in what Gabler calls
"a raw social environment."

Because the first Hollywood studios were run by Jewish moguls -- Louis B. Mayer,
Adolph Zukor, Carl Laemmle, William Fox, Samuel Goldwyn and the Warner brothers
-- who had absolute power over every aspect of each film -- Gabler believes they
were able to fashion an exportable image of Americans as strong individualists
who could stand up to dark forces and deal out fair-handed justice.

They had come from the ghettos of Poland, Germany and Russia, where freedoms
were strictly limited and massacres or pogroms were nightmare visions for nearly
every child born there. In the United States, they learned that they must act
decisively in business, often without mercy, if they were going to survive. They
had fierce enemies at first. Thomas Edison led the formation of the so-called
"movie trust" to keep the Jews from taking over the infant industry. Those
enemies lost their court battles while the Jewish-run studios prospered out
West.

Perpetual outsiders

The film suggests the Jewish moguls closely identified with certain film images
that had little to do with Jews, like the plight of the Okies in "The Grapes of
Wrath," because they saw themselves as perpetual outsiders. The film also
suggests they identified with the plight of black Americans because it reflected
their own historical situation.

"A very controversial passage in the documentary," says Gabler, "is where it
makes the claim that the Hollywood Jews were more sensitive to racial, ethnic
and minority issues than the gentiles who controlled the early film industry."

Though Gabler's book makes no such claim, the film suggests the Jewish moguls
never would have made D.W. Griffith's "The Birth of a Nation," which depicts the
Ku Klux Klan as the heroic defender of white women against black would-be
rapists in the Reconstruction Era.

At the heart of Gabler's thesis is the idea that at first the Jewish studio
chiefs did what they thought they had to do to survive -- changing their names
and not pushing any Jewish religious agenda in their films -- but later came to
like their new image as Hollywood-style "Americans" so much that they turned
away from Jewish culture.

In Jacobovici's film, for instance, several descendants of the moguls admit that
they didn't know they were Jews until it was pointed out to them. (The film also
briefly touches on the Yiddish film industry that thrived in New York City in
the first half of the century, making films about traditional Jewish culture
that played to Jewish audiences.)

I asked Gabler if a Jewish mogul like Paramount's Adolph Zukor ever got fed up
with financing Cecil B. DeMille's pro-Christian biblical spectaculars when he
might have made the occasional film pushing his own religion.

"They didn't do that," Gabler says. "What's interesting, though, is the pressure
they got from the Jewish community to do precisely that. The Catholics, of
course, had their own organization to lobby the film industry, so the Jewish
community formed The Hollywood Project Committee."

Warner Brothers' "The Jazz Singer" (1927), the first feature film with talking
sequences, epitomized the moguls' approach when they did make a film about Jews:
Cantor's son Al Jolson rejects his father's pleas to become a cantor and chooses
show business instead -- and a gentile girlfriend. The Yiddish version of the
same story ends with the cantor's son rejecting show business and becoming a
cantor.

Officially warned

Some Jews were critical of the studios for not making films about the Nazi
crackdown that eventually led to the Holocaust. Gabler says there were some
minor efforts to do so, but he has documented a 1940 visit to Hollywood by
Joseph Kennedy, then ambassador to England, in which he met with the studio
chiefs and warned them "in no uncertain terms" not to push for the United States
to enter the war or "it will go very badly for them."

Gabler says the moguls acquiesced, afraid that their defiance would be
interpreted as a purely Jewish response to atrocities against Jews.

There was a "double irony" to this: When the original Jewish moguls like Zukor,
Harry Cohn and Louis B. Mayer faded away in the late 1940s, their successors
"were much more proudly Jewish."

One of them, Dore Schary, was running RKO in 1946 and put the controversial
"Crossfire" into production for release in 1947. It was based on a novel called
"The Brick Foxhole" by Richard Brooks (later a film director) that dealt with
homosexuality, a taboo topic at the studios. Schary had the bigotry in the plot
changed from gay-bashing to anti-Semitism.

"So, the Hollywood Project organization lobbied against it," says Gabler. "They
were afraid that by discussing anti-Semitism, the film would (increase)
anti-Semitism. They asked Schary why he couldn't make it about homosexuality
instead."

Best picture

Coincidentally, another studio boss -- Darryl F. Zanuck, who wasn't Jewish --
had put his own film about anti-Semitism into production at 20th Century-Fox the
same year: "Gentlemen's Agreement," based on Laura Hobson's best-selling novel.
It won the 1947 Oscar for Best Film.

Gabler is aware that some Jews will not like the A&E documentary because it
doesn't tactfully "walk on eggshells" and may encourage bigots who already
believe the movie industry was formed and run by Jews who put profits above
everything in their lives, including their own religion.

"I've always felt there's a certain anti-Semitism in that vision of Hollywood,"
says Gabler. "I'll be perfectly frank about it. These were not fools and these
were not purely mercenary men. They were human beings with all sorts of
impulses. And guess what? Money was one of them. But only [one] of them."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Hollywoodism: Jews, Movies and the American Dream
* When: 6-8, 10-12 Sunday night, A&E
* Director: writer: Simcha
Jacobovici
* Based on: "An Empire of Their Own: How the Jews Invented Hollywood," by Neal
GablerRon Miller -- Television

GRAPHIC: Photos (6);
PHOTO: Cecil B. DeMille in a scene from the 1923 version of "The Ten
Commandments."
[980321 SV 1E 2]
PHOTO: Gabler
[980321 SV 11E 8]
PHOTO: From left, Adolph Zukor of Paramount,
[980321 SV 11E 4]
PHOTO: William Fox of 20th Century Fox,
[980321 SV 11E 5]
PHOTO: Harry Cohn of Columbia
[980321 SV 11E 6]
PHOTO: and Jack Warner of Warner Bros. Along with Universal's Carl Laemmle and
MGM's Louis B. Mayer, the men are the subject of "An Empire of Their Own: How
the Jews Invented Hollywood."
[980321 SV 11E 7]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 21, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ENVIRONMENT HURT BY CONSUMPTION, NOT IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 673 words


AS a highly educated, environmentally conscious immigrant, I disagree with
Sierra Club member Ben Zuckerman's central premise that reducing immigration
will automatically lead to a reduction in environmental degradation in the
United States (Opinion, March 18).

The issue in the United States is the high per capita consumption. As pointed
out by Zuckerman, the United States -- with less than a third of India's
population -- has as much worldwide environmental impact as all developing
countries combined. Reducing or even eliminating immigration is not going to
change the environmental impact much.

The fact is that organizations such as the Sierra Club have failed to make a
dent in per capita consumption in the United States -- either among so-called
environmentalists, or the general population. Hence, they latch on to immigrants
as the cause of all environmental problems.

Zuckerman says that the Sierra Club is not racist or elitist because most
blacks, Latinos and poor people favor reduced immigration. But this attitude is
based on economics, not the environment. He is misrepresenting their position
and using it to bolster his own shaky theories.

I wish to point out that the people responsible for the destruction of the last
remaining old growth redwoods are not (recent) immigrants. The lack of mass
transit in the Bay Area is not due to obstruction by immigrants. Wolves, eagles,
other endangered species in America are not being slaughtered to extinction by
(recent) immigrants. Immigrants on the whole adapt to the laws of the land.

While a student with no disposable income, I donated money to organizations such
as the Sierra Club. When I started working in Silicon Valley, I avoided buying a
car for months, relying instead on public transit and a bicycle. When I did buy
a car, I bought a small, fuel efficient model, without trim such as air
conditioning or leather (even though I could well afford them). I even became a
vegetarian. I saw the connection between my own lifestyle and its impact on the
environment.

Then one day I decided to go down to the local Sierra Club office and volunteer
my computer skills. I was surprised to see the large number of big gas-guzzling
cars, trucks and SUVs parked outside. Then I realized these were necessary for
the "environmentally conscious" Sierra Club member to "enjoy" the environment.
None was ready to make any kind of significant change in their own lifestyles in
order to help the environment. But now it seems they are quite willing to blame
immigrants for the damage.

Not racist or elitist? Ben's arguments have not convinced me of that.

-- Milind Gadre
Fremont
Using the environment as an excuse to slam the doors shut on immigration to the
United States is the weakest argument I've ever heard. Ben Zuckerman quotes the
president of U.N. General Assemblies as saying, 'We as a species -- as a planet
-- are teetering on the edge, living unsustainably." Note the choice of the
words "species" and "planet." It is a global issue and every country is
responsible.

Not allowing immigrants to come into the United States is simply a way to push
the blame onto another country.

-- Eva Liu
Sunnyvale
BEN Zuckerman's suggestion is the equivalent of telling potential immigrants:
"We've made enough mess here; please stay home. Oh, and stay poor, too, so as
not to make more messes. Or at least make your mess somewhere else."

This is not environmentalism. It is NIMBYism -- better to have shanty sprawl
elsewhere than suburban sprawl here.

I intend to cast my Sierra Club ballot against the proposition to limit
immigration for environmental purposes. The club must focus on the true
environmental solutions: sensible land use policies; reduced petroleum use;
global population control; wetlands preservation; and so on.

The proper way for the United States to reduce its impact on the environment is
to figure out ways to live well without consuming so much. Exporting the problem
is no answer.

-- David Simon
Los Altos

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 25, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LONGER SENTENCES FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 32 words


The Supreme Court ruled that the government may impose longer prison terms on
immigrants who illegally re-enter the United States if they were convicted of
certain crimes before deportation.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 27, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AGREEMENT REACHED ON FOOD STAMPS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 186 words


House and Senate lawmakers, granting the Clinton administration a partial
victory, struck a deal Thursday to restore food stamps to several groups of
legal immigrants, including refugees and certain elderly and disabled
non-citizens. After months of resistance, Republicans in recent days have agreed
to provide $818 million over five years to reinstate food aid to many of the
nearly 1 million legal immigrants whose eligibility was terminated as part of
the 1996 welfare-reform law.

President Clinton had sought $2.5 billion to restore aid to all who had lost
their food-stamp eligibility as a result of welfare reform. The deal would cover
the children of legal immigrants who were in the country on Aug. 22, 1996, when
the welfare bill was signed into law. It would extend the food-stamp eligibility
of refugees from five to seven years. And it would restore food stamps to 20,000
Hmong refugees who fled Laos after aiding U.S. military efforts in Southeast
Asia. The compromise food stamp agreement is contained in the fine print of a
bill providing $590 million for agriculture research.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 29, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

7,000 INVITED TO BE CITIZENS

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1494 words


For the last 15 months, Santa Clara County has spent more than $1 million
getting 7,000 immigrants to sign up to become citizens. But not one has yet been
interviewed by a U.S. immigration official, let alone become an American.

And all 7,000 will probably have to wait at least several months longer foran
interview, despite recent promises by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service that its San Jose staff would be beefed up to help it dig out from under
a mountain of paperwork.

The current 21-month wait for an interview is the longest in the San Jose
office's history, INS officials acknowledged last week. In January 1997, when
the county launched its unprecedented effort to make immigrants citizens, the
wait was only six months.

"It's pretty pathetic," said county Supervisor Blanca Alvarado. "This has been
going on forever and forever and forever."

INS officials say that its December move from its downtown office to a larger
one on Monterey Road caused a temporary increase in the waiting period -- which
had been about 18 months in November. They are hoping to begin significantly
reducing the number of backlog cases -- now between 58,000 and 59,000 -- within
the next three months.

The San Jose office's backlog is among the worst in the nation.

Eventually, "we want to get the wait back down to six months, and I believe we
can do it," said Sharon Rummery, an INS spokeswoman in the San Francisco
district office, which oversees the San Jose office.

Frustrated applicants have heard that refrain before, so many are skeptical. But
this time, INS officials say, the effort will be enhanced by a 60 percent
increase in hearing officers and new computerized tracking and fingerprinting
systems -- designed to take the INS out of the digital dark ages.

"We need a little patience," said Frank Fernandez, assistant officer in charge
in San Jose.

The rush to apply for citizenship began during the campaign for Proposition 187,
the 1994 initiative aimed at cutting off benefits to illegal immigrants. It
surged again in 1995 after congressional Republicans began talking about cutting
off welfare benefits to legal immigrants -- a threat that became reality when
President Clinton signed the welfare reform bill in August 1996.

'96 applicants seen now

The San Jose INS office is now interviewing people who applied for citizenship
in June 1996.

The wait at other Bay Area INS offices is less, immigrant rights groups say. In
San Francisco, it's a 14-month wait for an interview. In Oakland, it's 15
months.

INS officials say that most San Jose applicants are sworn in as citizens 60 days
after the interview. But Richard Hobbs, the county's director of citizenship and
immigration services, said that a more realistic time frame is four to six
months.

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, announced in late January that the Clinton
administration had responded to pressure from the South Bay congressional
delegation and had approved funding for the San Jose office to dramatically
increase its staff. But most of the employees have yet to be hired.

The number of hearing officers -- who must interview each applicant -- has
increased by only three, from 24 to 27. The number of clerks has actually
decreased, from 21 to 17.

But Fernandez said that the INS has authorized hiring 17 new hearing officers.
Most of the new employees should be on board in the next few months after they
undergo background checks, he said.

INS officials say Santa Clara County's high housing prices and booming economy
make it hard for the San Jose office to hire workers.

"It's hard to find new employees in Silicon Valley because of the high cost of
living," Rummery said. "You have the high-tech industry with really high-paying
jobs."

Thirteen people were recently offered jobs as hearing officers, but four went
elsewhere, some to INS offices in parts of the country with lower housing
prices, she said.

Offer not accepted

Given those facts, Alvarado is upset that the INS still hasn't accepted the
county's offer to send 10 county workers to the INS office to help eliminate the
enormous backlog.

"It's crazy," she said. "Eight months ago we offered them 10 workers and told
them we'd lend them computers, cash registers and whatever they needed. And
nothing's happened."

Fernandez, however, said that federal regulations forbid the agency to hire
temporary workers who haven't worked at the county for 90 days. All of the
workers offered by the county were in that category, he said.

But both he and Deputy County Executive Jane Decker said they are hoping the INS
and the county can sign an agreement within the next few weeks.

Still, Alvarado and other county officials fear that the long wait will cause
many of the 7,000 naturalization applicants to lose interest and not follow
through with the process. And that could cost the county dearly down the road if
immigrants cut from federal welfare rolls end up on general assistance, which is
funded entirely by the county.

Many of the applicants, Alvarado said, were already reluctant to apply for
citizenship.

"For a large percentage, it was a scary process," she said. "We built up their
level of confidence and trust, only to have the door shut."

Many of the 7,000 are already struggling with cuts in food stamps. Only
immigrants younger than 18 or older than 64 are eligible for a state-funded food
stamp program aimed at offsetting the federal cutoff of benefits among legal
immigrants.

The state now spends about $36 million a year to provide 60,000 legal immigrants
with food stamps. Under a deal reached by U.S. lawmakers Thursday, the federal
government would soon take over responsibility for the program. Most
non-citizens aged 18 to 64, however, will still not be eligible for food stamps.

Benefit cut started push

After Congress voted to deny most public benefits to non-citizens, Santa Clara
County launched its program to make immigrants citizens.

By the end of June the county will have spent $700,000 in county funds and
$555,000 in grants from private foundations on the program, according to Decker.

Some of that money will go down the drain when a substantial percentage of the
7,000 become ill, die or decide to drop out of the process -- as is expected.

Indeed, hundreds of the 7,000 immigrants had applied to become citizens before
Congress decided in July 1997 to restore Supplemental Security Income to many
elderly legal immigrants.

County Human Relations Director Jim McEntee said citizenship applicants
routinely call his office "wondering if they did something wrong -- if their
papers were not turned in correctly."

"It's too bad," added McEntee, who has three full-time staffers working out of
his office on the citizenship initiative. "We've tried so hard to encourage
people to become citizens. Then we make the process so long and complicated."

Although the program was set up in response to looming welfare cuts, some county
officials -- including McEntee -- would like to see the initiative continue
indefinitely. McEntee noted that one in four of Santa Clara County residents is
foreign born.

Nutrition causes concern

"We want people to become citizens to participate in the democratic institutions
of our country," he said.

Immigrant welfare cuts, however, still worry many county officials. In fact, the
county Social Services Agency and a coalition of groups on March 13 released a
survey that indicated about half of legal immigrants affected by food stamp cuts
did not have enough to eat.

The county has offered Second Harvest Food Bank $836,610 for this fiscal year to
buy more food, although it hasn't accepted most of the money because food bank
officials haven't seen a big increase in demand, said to Dave Sandretto, Second
Harvest's executive director. The food bank, though, has accepted $67,100 to pay
for translators and hire two Vietnamese-speaking workers for its food connection
hotline. Six in 10 immigrants cut off fromfood stamps are of Vietnamese descent.

INS officials say they don't give priority to immigrants who have been cut off
from food stamps and other public benefits. That, they contend, would be unfair
to others waiting.

"You can't do that," Rummery said. "We're not here to make you eligible for
welfare. We're here to help turn you into an American."

Fernandez agreed, adding that San Jose INS officials plan to ensure shorter
waits for all applicants by bringing in temporary workers from other INS offices
across the country. In addition, the INS's high-tech service center in Laguna
Niguel is helping cut down on paperwork at local offices by processing
applications.

"It's going to make us work more efficiently," he said.

"To be realistic," Fernandez added, he didn't think the wait for an interview at
the San Jose office would be down to six months by the end of 1998. "But that's
the goal the service is driving for."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 3, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT'S SON NEEDS TO HEAR AMERICA'S STORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 969 words


REYNALDO Mena's commentary ("Father's patriotism crosses U.S.-Mexico border,"
Perspective, March 29) was disturbing in many respects. Having come here as an
immigrant when I was 13, I am still strongly connected to my own Filipino
culture through language and tradition. I can identify with his dilemma -- to
which culture do I keep my allegiance? However, unlike Mena, I crossed over and
chose to become an American citizen. Do I avert my eyes when I go home as an
American? No. Although I still live and breathe my native culture, I have made a
choice to root myself here.

What disturbed me most was not his decision to pursue dual citizenship, but in
what he may pass on to his son. I certainly hope that, in addition to passing on
the rich Mexican culture, he also points out the unique American experience that
has resulted in a crossroads of cultures so evident right here in San Jose. As
his son should know about Mexico City's Reforma Avenida, heshould also be taught
about the Mall in Washington D.C., where the monuments to our greatest heroes
stand.

I hope he does not miss the unique opportunity he has to show his son the
amalgamation of all the different cultures, warts and all, that have made up
this American community. This ethnic mix of Filipinos, Mexicans, Germans,
Vietnamese, Italians, Irish, Indians, Cambodians, Guatemalans, Chinese, etc., is
a combination that I could not experience back home. To lump them all together
into one generic mass is to disrespect the uniqueness each one brings to this
country.

I certainly hope too that he passes on with equal conviction the failures and
triumphs in American history and their legacy as well. Just as Mena's native
culture should not be forgotten, nor should the American experience be taken for
granted.

-- Martin Oppus
San Jose
Using eminent domain

THERE have been several recent letters decrying the Mid-Peninsula Open Space
District's use of eminent domain to prevent the building of a convent on prime
open space in San Mateo County. One writer (Letters, April 1) claimed that such
"unlimited power" led her to believe she was "living in Communist-ruled
country."

What these writers either fail to realize or conveniently decide to ignore is
the fact that many government agencies have and commonly use eminent domain
proceedings to take the land they decide they want for roads, power lines, dams,
and other projects. Locally, East Palo Alto is doing just that to provide land
for private developers of hotels and retail businesses. Where is the resolution
from San Mateo County officials condemning that particular use of the process?

At least the MPROSD is using its powers to benefit all citizens of the area by
attempting to preserve another small piece of green in our increasingly paved
world.

-- James Yurchenco
Palo Alto
Ballpark trumpet is silenced PLAY a trumpet, go to prison. That's the new law
passed by the Saratoga Little League board. I just learned about it when I went
to my son's first game of the season last week. The game was just about to start
and we were to be first up. I pulled out my trumpet and tooted out a quick
"Charge!" Before I could even pull the mouthpiece away from my lips, the manager
of my son's team tapped me on the shoulder and informed me about the new rule. I
was told to put the trumpet away; it was now considered to be unsportsmanlike.
Apparently this rule was passed last summer after the previous season had ended.

It's hard not to take a rule like this personally, since I am the only person
who has ever played a musical instrument at a Saratoga Little League game. The
only reason I ever did it in the first place was to make it more fun for the
kids, who always enjoyed it and asked me to bring it to every game. Often a well
timed "Charge!" would be just what the kids needed to get them inspired and win
the game.

I am well aware that there are some parents who do not enjoy hearing my
renditions of various cavalry charges and "Take Me Out to the Ball Game." Most
of the time they are sitting in the other team's bleachers, but there are even
some in my own team's stands who disapprove. I apologize for offending them, and
I request that they might try asking me to put it away if they are truly
bothered. I beg that they please not pass such heavy-handed rules next time
someone offends them.

If the Saratoga Little League is truly concerned about unsportsmanlike conduct,
why doesn't it pass rules against abusive coaches and parents who yell at the
kids and (volunteer) umpires and belittle them for missing a catch or making a
bad call? I thought Little League was supposed to be fun for the kids.

-- Dale N. Walter Saratoga
Clinton's wrong on slavery PRESIDENT Bill Clinton slandered early
European-Americans including my ancestors in his current African tour when he
said (Page 1A, March 25), "Going back to the time before we were even anation,
European-Americans received the fruits of the slave trade."

The president's statement was not accurate in its detail or its spirit. Slavery
was wrong and so is the president. To imply that the millions of
European-American who settled this country benefited or were involved in the
slave trade is ludicrous. Few did. Early European-Americans were very poor, some
indentured, and most just struggled to clear a plot of land and eke out an
existence. They had no slaves and did not benefit from slavery. Further, as a
people, European-Americans fought, died and finally stopped slavery, believing
it was morally wrong.

Why did the president make that false over-generalization and racially divisive
statement about early European-Americans in a foreign country? When will
President Clinton stop his racial politics and start bringing the nation
together?

-- John "Jack" Mallory Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters, E-Mail & Faxes
Silver Pen Award

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 6, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RUSSIANS FLOCK TO SILICON VALLEY JEWISH IMMIGRANTS LURED BY HIGH-TECH JOBS

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News San Francisco Bureau

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 943 words


For high-tech firms, Russian Jewish emigrants -- who fled political and
religious tensions in the former Soviet Union -- are feeding Silicon Valley's
ravenous appetite for talented new workers.

"They are a new brain trust for Silicon Valley firms," said Carol Gopin,
executive director of Jewish Family Service of Santa Clara County, which has
helped about 6,000 Russian Jews resettle in the South Bay since 1990.

"They're blown away by how many opportunities this country has to offer them,"
Gopin added. "They're very appreciative and respectful of that."

The immigrants -- many of them Russian-trained engineers, softwaretechnicians or
scientists -- are flocking to Silicon Valley in such high numbers that the
refugee resettlement programs can barely keep up with demand, Gopin said.

Vocational counselors working with the refugees got a helping hand late last
month from the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society of New York. The group sponsored a
one-day workshop in San Francisco to teach counselors better ways to retrain the
immigrants, boost their English skills and get them jobs.

While the number of Russian Jews immigrating to the United States has been
halved -- from about 32,000 in 1990 to about 16,000 in 1996 -- about 10 percent
of the new arrivals are landing in the Bay Area.

Of those, Gopin estimates that about 80 percent end up in high-tech jobs.

The Jewish Family Service, based in Los Gatos, has placed Russian workers with
IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and Adobe, and the companies are
constantly coming back for more recruits, Gopin said.

"We have recruiting days when we'll invite a hiring person from a local company
to interview a dozen or more qualified candidates," Gopin said. "Often, at least
one person gets a job offer on the spot."

Russian immigrant Norm Gitis is one of those success stories.

Gitis, who fled Russia nine years ago to provide a better life for his family,
says he's flourishing now that he's free of the political uncertainty and
anti-Semitism that he said are pervasive in Russia.

Gitis, who speaks in heavily accented English and earned a doctorate in
mechanical engineering from the Russian Academy of Sciences, doesn't like to
talk about his former life in Moscow.

His official nationality -- stamped on his passport and his birth certificate --
was "Jew," not "Russian," he said.

"It is the way that they classify all Jewish people over there. You are Jewish
first, Russian second," he said.

His Jewish heritage got in the way of jobs and promotions in his home country,
and he always felt stigmatized. So Gitis decided he would try to come to the
United States.

"It was difficult because my wife and I left everything behind, and we did not
speak a word of English," he said.

The first year in this country was awful, he said, but within eight months he
had sent out 300 resumes and received five job offers. He soon went to work for
IBM's disk drive manufacturing facility in San Jose, where he studied ways of
diminishing the wear and tear on the units.

"They called me 'Our baby,' " Gitis said. "My co-workers had to teach me about
credit cards, and they helped to open a bank account and to balance my
checkbook. It was all new to me."

Gitis jokes that he prospered at IBM because "IBM was so big and bureaucratic
and I realized that I was very familiar with this, having lived in the former
Soviet Union."

Today, Gitis owns the Center for Tribology Inc. in Mountain View, a $4 million
company that helps high-tech firms find ways to cut wear and tear on their
equipment.

Last year, Gitis' firm was named the fastest-growing private company in Silicon
Valley by the San Jose and Silicon Valley Business Journal.

Gitis said he is grateful to IBM for taking a chance on him when he arrived, so
now about half of his 40 employees are Russian Jews.

Not everyone is so willing to give the new arrivals a chance.

Gopin said some companies worry about the language barrier infringing on
productivity, and many of the workers need retraining to help them catch up with
U.S. technological advances.

"But these are people who have been trained to think like engineers or
scientists. So they are able to pick up new concepts very quickly," she said.

The new arrivals are perfect for Doug Engfer's company, the Windward Group in
Los Gatos.

Engfer, who has five Russian Jews working in the quality assurance division of
the business, said the employees "have done surprisingly well."

"If anything, they're slightly overqualified," he said. "They're very motivated
and they're open to change and they're not big fans of bureaucracy. They like
just diving in."

One of his Russian employees, Alexander Lazer, said he never imagined he would
be living in the heart of Silicon Valley and working in the software industry.

Lazer, who arrived in San Jose in 1989, worked three jobs in Ukraine in the
telephone company's computer department, as a musician and as a photographer.
His average weekly salary was about $50 a week. Here, he landed a job with IBM
about a year after arriving, earning $30,000 a year.

Now he makes substantially more, he said. And he is a volunteer teacher at
Jewish Family Service, teaching new immigrants skills in the high-tech field.

"There are no words to thank this country for the opportunities it has given me
and my family," said Lazer. He is particularly grateful that his U.S.-born
daughter, Masha, 6, doesn't have to ever hide her Jewish heritage.

"We are valued here for our intelligence, our hard work and contributions," he
said. "There is no Jewish mark on her birth certificate or her passport."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LUCI S. HOUSTON -- MERCURY NEWS
Norm Gitis immigrated with no knowledge of English and now owns a Mountain View
company considered one of the fastest- growing in Silicon Valley.
[980406 LO 1B 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 6, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. WRONGLY DETAINED WRESTLERS, IRAN ALLEGES TEAM FINGERPRINTED AT CHICAGO
AIRPORT, COACH SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 347 words

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran


Iran accused U.S. authorities Sunday of mistreating Iranian wrestlers who
traveled to the United States as part of exchanges aimed at improving tense
relations.

Iranian wrestlers were subjected to an "identity test" when they arrived
Thursday at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, Iran's official Islamic
Republic News Agency said.

The agency did not give details, but the team's coach, Amir Reza Khadem, said
the wrestlers were fingerprinted and photographed. Wrestlers said they had to
wait two hours at the airport.

Their treatment indicated the absence of any shift in Washington's policy toward
Tehran, the Iranian agency quoted Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Mahmoud
Mohammadi as saying.

Monique Bond, a spokeswoman for the Chicago Department of Aviation, said Sunday
that the Iranian wrestlers arrived without visas and were detained for about two
hours.

Immigration officials at O'Hare, however, said the wrestlers did have visas.

"They were detained slightly and they went on their way," said Dean Hinton,
assistant port director for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He said
he could not provide more details.

Iran's participation in the World Cup of Freestyle Wrestling championships at
Oklahoma State University on Saturday and Sunday was made possible after
American wrestlers took part in an international tournament in Tehran in
February.

The Americans were the first U.S. athletes to go to Iran since the Islamic
revolution in 1979. They were warmly welcomed in Tehran and plan to return in
September for the world championship.

Iranian President Mohammed Khatami, who took office in August, has been trying
to improve relations and has called for greater cultural exchanges between the
two countries. But hard-liners have opposed his rapprochement with Washington.

Iran's parliament speaker was quoted Sunday as saying that ties with the United
States would be harmful to Iran's interests. But Ali Akbar Nateq-Nouri said Iran
should have "closer contact" with European countries, according to the Iranian
news agency.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 7, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DELAY AT INS IS A DISGRACE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 419 words


AT the risk of sounding like a broken record, we'd like to say that the
continued delay in processing citizenship applications at the San Jose office of
the Immigration and Naturalization Service is a disgrace.

It now takes nearly two years -- 22 months, to be exact -- for someone who files
an application here to get an interview with an INS officer. There is a backlog
of more than 58,000 applications. Despite promises of additional workers to help
speed things up, the total office staff, including hearing officers and clerks,
has actually shrunk recently because of turnover.

The wait in San Jose is one of the longest in the country. The Oakland office
now takes 15 months to schedule an interview; San Francisco takes 14 months.

County officials, immigrant advocates and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren are fed up
and frustrated. No wonder. The county has been advising immigrants to applyfor
citizenship so they can get federal benefits. But not one of the 7,000 people
who took that advice in the past 15 months has gotten an interview yet. Offers
by the county to provide clerical staff to process INS applications so far have
gotten stuck in federal bureaucratic red tape. And Lofgren's repeated complaints
to the INS bring only promises.

"We've definitely gotten their attention," Lofgren, D-San Jose, said last week.
"But this is not a new problem. Patience is wearing thin in Congress."

San Jose's office may be one of the most overwhelmed in the INS, but it's merely
a symptom of the agency's persistent management problems that have led critics
to call for disbanding the agency. Fighting for its life, the INS has responded
with some improvements. For example, applicants can now mail their forms to a
central processing office in Laguna Nigel instead of standing in line at the San
Jose office just to hand the form to a clerk. The San Jose office has gotten 24
new positions, though they have not all been filled. Next week, five INS
officers from Nebraska are supposed to arrive to help cut the backlog. INS
spokesperson Karen Kraushaar said the agency hopes to have the waiting period
down to 18 months by June and down to nine months by the end of 1999.

The INS overload is not due solely to bad management. The number of citizenship
applications nationwide has tripled in recent years -- from 522,000 in 1993 to
nearly 1.6 million in 1997. But the agency failed to act to meet this challenge.
Now thousands of immigrants and their families are paying for INS incompetence.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 10, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELSEWHERE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 63 words

* Tuberculosis cases in the United States dropped in 1997 for the fifth year in
a row but climbed 6 percent among immigrants, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention announced from Atlanta.

* The proportion of the nation's population born in foreign countries continues
to climb, with immigrants accounting for nearly one-tenth last year, according
to the Census Bu

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 12, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION QUESTION TEARS AT ENVIRONMENTALISTS SIERRA CLUB MEMBERS WEIGH IN ON
INCREASING STRAIN CAUSED BY BURGEONING POPULATION

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 2269 words


It may be the one issue that America's environmental groups fear most.

Not loggers buzzing away at clear cuts. Not oil tankers careening toward rocky
shores. Not even barrels leaking toxic waste. The fastest way to clear a room of
environmentalists? Mention the 'I' word.

Immigration.

Two weeks from now, the Sierra Club will tally up a vote on an emotionally
explosive question forced onto club ballots by a small group of its members --
whether to advocate cuts in U.S. immigration levels or to maintain the club's
current policy of neutrality. Already, the debate has dragged an issue into
public view that many of the nation's leading conservation groups have struggled
with for years behind closed doors.

Should green groups wade into the sticky issue of immigration?

Some environmentalists say yes.

In a coalition that includes several of the nation's most respected
environmental leaders, they argue it is intellectually dishonest to talk about
air pollution, water pollution, urban sprawl, traffic and other problems without
looking at one major cause: the relentless growth of U.S. population. Reducing
immigration levels, they say, is critical to stabilizing America's population
and to preserving wild places and its quality of life.

Others argue the topic offers only a road to ruin. Population is a global
question, they contend. The real issue is U.S. consumption. They fear that if
groups such as the Sierra Club, National Audubon Society and others beginpushing
for stricter immigration controls, it will only serve to alienate ethnic
minorities -- particularly Latinos -- who so far have comprised just a small
part of a movement dominated by white, upper middle class Americans.

"Most environmental groups have not taken a position on population," said
Patricia Waak, the National Audubon Society's director of population and habitat
programs, based in Boulder, Colo.

"It's almost as if the environment can be controversial enough, so why do we
want to add this other thing?" she said. "You either get stuck with the 'A'
word, abortion, or the 'I' word, immigration. So most people avoid it, even
though many environmentalists say it's the source of a lot of environmental
problems."

Ballots were mailed out last month to all 550,000 Sierra Club members. They are
due back April 25. The results will be announced shortly afterward.

On opposite sides

Amid the Sierra Club debate, as in others, longtime friends are finding
themselves on opposite sides, clashing in a melee of faxes, newsletter articles
and Internet volleys. Other environmental groups are watching the results
closely, since the Sierra Club, as America's oldest and most influential
conservation organization, often sets the tone for the movement.

Despite all the passionate rhetoric, however, the statistics are clear.

Foreign immigration is playing an increasingly central role in America's
population growth.

Consider:

* America is adding about 2.5 million people a year. Foreign immigrants make up
roughly 33 percent of new growth, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The
bureau predicts that the current U.S. population of 269 million -- now third
largest in the world behind China and India -- will balloon to 393 million by
2050 at current birth and immigration levels.

* And because first-generation immigrant women have higher birth rates than
native residents in every ethnic category, the census estimates that immigrants
who arrived after 1994 and their descendants will represent 60 percent of all
U.S. population growth over the next 50 years.

The trend is well-defined in California.

* There are more people living in California today than in all of Canada. With
33 million residents, the nation's most populous state has doubled in size since
1961 and quadrupled since 1942.

* California has been growing by an average of 525,000 people a year for the
last decade. That's the equivalent of adding a new Oakland and a new San
Francisco every two years. State officials predict the trend will accelerate. By
2020, California will have 47.5 million people, they estimate. The increase is
equivalent to adding the present-day populations of Arizona, Nevada, Oregon,
Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah to California's current population.

* All those people will require water, food, homes and roads.

* Last year, 41 percent of California's population growth came from foreign
immigration, up from 35 percent in 1991, according to the state Department of
Finance. Four percent was the result of people moving from other states. And 55
percent resulted from what statisticians call "natural increase" -- the rate of
births over deaths.

Some environmentalists are alarmed. To them, it's a simple question of carrying
capacity.

Habitats have their limits

Every habitat has a limit, they contend. When animals overrun an area, the
landscape and the species suffer. Humans are no different.

"This will dramatically change the quality of life in this country," said
Gaylord Nelson, the former U.S. senator from Wisconsin and founder of Earth Day
in 1970. "If we double the population, then we roughly need to double the total
infrastructure of the United States -- the highways, schools, prisons, the
airports; you name it. Then what would the country look like? What would life be
like?"

Nelson is among a group of leading environmentalists who are advocating that the
Sierra Club and other organizations take a more active role in immigration
debates. He said he'd like to see immigration levels cut by two-thirds to about
275,000 a year, the number common in the 1950s and 1960s.

Two years ago, Nelson helped the Wilderness Society draft a policy stating that
population growth is a major threat to national parks and wild areas, because of
both encroaching development and larger crowds. The number of park visitors, for
example, has tripled since 1960 to 270 million a year.

The policy states that "to bring population levels to ecologically sustainable
levels, both birth rates and immigration rates need to be reduced." But it does
not advocate specific targets.

Almost no other major environmental organization has touched the issue.

"People have been silenced because they are scared to death of being charged
with being racist," said Nelson, a Democrat who voted for the 1964 Civil Rights
Act and joined the NAACP 50 years ago. "But racism has nothing to do with it.
It's a question of numbers."

Also urging the Sierra Club to take a position in favor of reducing immigration
are Stewart Udall, the former U.S. Secretary of Interior under Presidents
Kennedy and Johnson; Edward O. Wilson, the Harvard professor of entomology who
has won two Pulitzer prizes; Huey Johnson, California's Secretary of Resources
under Gov. Jerry Brown; as well as renowned nature photographer Galen Rowell;
Paul Watson, the co-founder of Greenpeace, and Dave Foreman, a founder of Earth
First! and former Sierra Club board member.

Ethnic question

Critics, however, say America cannot escape the ethnic question.

Why? In large part because Mexico provides the greatest number of legal and
illegal immigrants to California and the United States.

One leading advocate for keeping environmentalism free of immigration is Michael
Fischer, who served as the Sierra Club's national executive director from 1987
until 1993.

Fischer worries that the issue will only isolate environmentalists from growing
minority populations, especially amid divisive debates such as California's
Proposition 187, which voters approved in 1994 to deny public benefits to
illegal immigrants.

"This is about more than political danger," said Fischer, who now works at the
Hewlett Foundation in Menlo Park. "It's about the salience, and the relevance of
the environmental movement. If we don't demonstrate our importance to
communities of color we will be an irrelevant movement."

Echoing that sentiment is Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's current national
executive director.

Shutting people out of America will not solve the world's environmental
problems, he argues.

"This is continental nimbyism," said Pope. "People who support this view see the
U.S. as a lifeboat and the rest of the world as the Titanic. They don't want the
rest of the world to swamp us. But the problem is that we are not a lifeboat.
The earth is a spaceship. We're all in this together."

Pope and other Sierra Club leaders say the best course is for the organization
to continue lobbying for worldwide family planning and women's rights, as well
as reducing America's birthrate and its voracious consumption of energy and
natural resources.

Americans are only 4 percent of the world's population, they note, yet use 25
percent of its resources. The average American's energy use is equivalent to the
consumption of two Japanese, six Mexicans, 13 Chinese, 32 Indians, 140
Bangladeshis, 284 Tanzanians or 372 Ethiopians.

Some on this side of the debate further argue that California's loss of salmon,
farmland and redwood forests are more a result of bad planning than too many
people.

"I don't think the evidence is there to demonstrate that we are having the
problems we are having because of population growth," said James Sandos, a
professor of history at University of Redlands, in San Bernardino County, and
co-author of "Across the Border: Rural Development in Mexico and Recent
Migration to the United States."

"I think the whole issue is quite sad," he added. "It's particularly ironic and
painful because the founder of the Sierra Club, John Muir, was an immigrant from
Scotland."

Huerta weighs in

Lining up against any immigration recommendations by the Sierra Club are Dolores
Huerta, co-founder of the United Farm Workers; Sierra Club PresidentAdam
Werbach; the Sierra Club's board of directors; five former Sierra Club
presidents; former U.S. Rep. Peter Kostmayer, who is executive director of Zero
Population Growth; as well as Brent Blackwelder, president of Friends of the
Earth; and Carl Anthony, president of Earth Island Institute.

Exacerbating the question is the Sierra club's racial makeup.

Of its 550,000 members, only 7 percent are members of minority groups. Only two
of 15 board members are minorities.

"This position is not necessarily environmentalist, but isolationist," said
Martha Jimenez, regional counsel in San Francisco for the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund.

"It's a simplistic answer," she said. "Ultimately the question is, are we gonna
share? We do have a lot. Or are we going to give some of that back? What are we
supposed to do, put up a Berlin Wall? We have to have new blood, new ideas.
That's what's made this country great."

Ballots have been coming back by mail for weeks now. Confronting Sierra Club
members are two choices.

Option A calls for adopting "a comprehensive policy for the United States" that
encourages both a reduced birth rate and a net reduction in U.S. immigration
without setting specific levels. Option B calls for taking no position on
immigration.

For years, the Sierra Club's board, with headquarters in San Francisco, grappled
with the issue. After board members refused to take a position on immigration in
1996, several angry members collected 2,200 signatures and placed the issue for
vote.

"All I'm talking about is total numbers," said Alan Kuper, a retired engineering
professor from Cleveland who led the ballot effort. "There are just too many
people. There's hardly any habitat we aren't penetrating and pressing on and
extinguishing species."

Environmental groups should advocate global solutions to population growth, too,
he said. But that shouldn't keep them from also working on U.S. population
issues. Kuper advocates reducing U.S. birth rates below replacement levels, like
most of Europe today, and cutting U.S. immigration by three-quarters to about
200,000 a year -- balancing out the number of people who leave the country each
year. His ultimate goal which would take a century or more, is to gradually
stabilize and then shrink the U.S. population to 100 million, the level of 1920.

Issue is here to stay

Regardless of the outcome, the issue is not likely to go away. Now that it has
been exposed, many observers expect it to become a more visible part of the
environmental debate.

"It's a question of whether the U.S. has a right to control its borders and have
a higher quality of life than other places in the globe," said Dowell Myers, a
professor of urban planning and demography at the University of Southern
California.

"That's a moral question. We have a higher standard of living than other people
in the world, no question about it."

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Varying birth rates
The Census Bureau estimates that the U.S. population will increase from the
current 269 million to 393 million by the year 2050.  About 60 percent of the
growth will come from foreign immigrants and their descendants.  That's largely
because immigrants have higher birth rates than native Americans.
1994 births per 1,000 U.S. women, age 15 to 54, by mother's native land
Nationwide            65
U.S. Natives          62
Foreign-born          93
Mexico               147
Other Latin AMerica   82
Asia                  58
Europe                53
Source: U.S. Census Bureau
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
IMMIGRATION AND CALIFORNIA POPULATION GROWTH
Factors in California Population Change
Total Population
Immigrants are from ...
Source: California Department of Finance Demographic Research Unit

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Both sides of the Sierra Club immigration debate have Web sites. Those in favor
of advocating a position are at http:: www.ecofuture.org: ecofuture: susps info:
. Those opposed are at http:: www.igc.org: sierrapop: .

GRAPHIC: Charts (2)

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 13, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS PROVIDES US WITH A NEW CATCH-22 STORY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1146 words


IF you want a good example of the crowning glory of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, here it is in a nutshell:

1) My wife's petition for permanent residence (not citizenship) was already
approved by the INS in Laguna Niguel three months ago.

2) Laguna Niguel needs to do nothing more with my wife's file than forward it to
the National Visa Center in New Hampshire for distribution to the local U.S.
consulate where she will have an interview and get her Green Card.

3) Neither INS Laguna Niguel nor the National Visa Center claims to have the
file; NVC has informed me that after three months, they don't even bother to
look for it anymore and officially consider it lost. This necessitates refiling
(we filed in mid-October 1997) and another six-month wait, at least.

4) It's tax time! The IRS informs me that since I cannot supply a Social
Security number for my wife, I will be charged with filing a fraudulent return
(their interpretation of the blank field for her SSN on the 1040 form), which
could prove unduly costly, and perhaps worse, for me.

5) The Social Security Administration informs me that it no longer issues
numbers (to non-citizens) for non-work reasons -- my wife cannot obtain a number
until INS processes her Green Card, which brings us back to point 1) above.

And round and round we go.

What burns me is that my taxes are funding these agencies and paying the
salaries of their staffs, agencies of the same organ (the federal government)
under whose laws and regulations one agency requires me to supply a Social
Security number for my wife on the tax return, and the other agency says no, we
can't have one yet, until yet another agency finds a file which it has already
approved and finished with and it simply needs to get it off the desk and on its
way.

-- Thomas R. LaVenia
Sunnyvale
Sex, politics -- ho hum

REGARDING the lessons of the Paula Jones affair -- no pun intended -- the
outraged and energized portion of the American populace that wants to nail
Clinton's backside to the nearest wall ought to look back in legend and history.

There were many examples of men in high political positions whose amorous
inclinations got them into trouble. Paris just had to have Helen, Mrs. Menelaus,
and we all know what happened to Troy -- archaeologists are still digging around
trying to find bits of it. Marc Antony could have been ruler of the western
world had he not fallen for the charms of Cleopatra. We won't even get into
MacBeth's case.

Irish political leader Charles Stuart Parnell might have been able to solve the
Irish question back in the 19th century if he hadn't been brought down by love
for his Kitty. In our own history, Thomas Jefferson, that consummate Virginia
gentleman, dallied with one of his slaves, or so said the unproven rumor that
dogs his memory to this day.

Alexander Hamilton, who might have been president but for his peccadilloes, let
a woman pay off her debt to him with sexual favors. He apologized for his
infidelity in print, though there was no evidence that he kept his trousers
buttoned after. Andrew Jackson took another man's wife, and fought a duel to
preserve her honor.

Grover Cleveland acknowledged an illegitimate child, while Warren Harding didn't
but should have. Franklin Roosevelt found comfort in the arms of hismistress.
More recently, JFK chased MM around the Oval Office.

There is nothing new under the sun, and that includes the heady mix of sex and
politics. Having acknowledged these truths, let's get on with it. Ken Starr --
get a real job.

-- Betsy Plette
San Jose
The TV dilemma

I enjoyed the rich irony provided by the juxtaposition of two articles in the
April 6 Mercury News.

In "TV ratings rise as taste level plummets" (Page 1A), we read the hardly
surprising news that mainstream TV is "flaunting the most vulgar and explicit
sex, language and behavior that it has ever brought into American homes."
However, Lawrie Miflin jumps to a major conclusion by stating after an
undisclosed number of interviews with parents that "American families are not as
distressed about television vulgarity" as the politicians would like to think.

Many parents have found alternatives to "battling with their children about
television." Getting rid of the TV, keeping children busy, using the VCR and
choosing what the family watches, or choosing not to give up the authority
regarding TV-watching to your children -- these are some of the answers for
about 50 families I know.

Which brings me to the article I found when I turned the page. In "People in the
news" (Page 2A) there was an item about Madonna stating that her daughter,
"unlike many American children," has had little exposure to television. "TV is
not a big part of my life, it just hasn't been a part of her life."

You see, yet another American family (!) that doesn't fit into Miflin's sweeping
generalization.

Madonna knows that she didn't get where she is by watching television. The
really critical question is, "What else could my children be doing with the time
they spend watching TV?"

-- Catherine Sleight
Cupertino
Our neglected schools

I would like to thank Lori Aratani for her insightful article on poverty's role
in classroom performance (Page 24A, March 22), and also Michael Bazeley for his
well-researched related article on making schools responsible for student
achievement (Page 25A, March 22).

California faces socio-economic diversity issues unparalleled in the nation. We
have to respond to a broader range of student needs and yet are made to contend
with these issues with one of the lowest revenue rates in the country.

Additionally, our libraries are incredibly outdated -- the average school
library non-fiction book in a California school library was published in 1972,
eight years before our 18-year-old high school seniors were even born. We also
have one of the lowest access-to-technology rates in the country. Since we exist
in the heart of Silicon Valley, shouldn't we be demonstrating to the rest of the
country how technology can be integrated throughout course curriculum?

Accessibility to technology will be helped somewhat by the governor's Digital
High School Grants, but meanwhile our facilities are in dire need of at least
$22 billion of infrastructure support, and our teachers are underpaid. And yet,
everyone acts surprised that our student test scores are so low.

I think our renewed attention to the state of our schools is somewhat analogous
to a caretaker returning to a neglected garden only to be surprised to find it
overrun with weeds. Just as we've needed to "raise the bar" with regard to
academic standards, we also need to "raise the bar" with regard to basic program
funding, professional development and parental involvement.

-- Susan Mayer
Board Member,
Campbell Union High School District

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 13, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WIDE RANGE OF BUSINESSES CHASE A BOOMING MARKET SHARP GROWTH DRAWS INVESTMENT
INTO A COMMERCE BUILT ON DISLOCATION, POVERTY

BYLINE: MICHELLE LEVANDER AND RICARDO SANDOVAL, Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 1180 words


In a post-NAFTA world, a booming multibillion-dollar industry has grown up on
the backs of the most humble players in the international economy: migrant
workers.

Today, a host of new players are scrambling for a share of the lucrative
business wiring money home, which is growing by 15 to 20 percent a year.

Banks, small regional money-wiring services and even the U.S. Postal Service,
with its Dinero Seguro (Safe Money) program, entered the fray in the 1990s as
Mexican immigration swelled to record numbers. Two Mexican state governments --
Jalisco and Guanajuato -- also are creating programs to make it cheaper to wire
money and to encourage investment in migrants' home states.

Last year, Mexican immigrants sent home an estimated $6 billion, and about half
that was in wire transfers. Such remittances could grow as high as $10 billion
by 2000, predicts an official with the Mexican bank BanCrecer, although other
projections point to $7 billion.

"It's a big block of money. Everyone wants a piece of it," said James F. McCabe,
president of Bank of America Mexico.

Rapid change coming

"The old days of sleepy competition and costly traditional forms of sending are
going to be very rapidly done away with," predicts Raul Hinojosa, director of
the North American Integration and Development Center at the University of
California-Los Angeles. "New technological innovations will have a profound,
revolutionary effect on the way that money has been sent."

The payoff is enormous for even a small share of this commerce built upon
dislocation, migration and poverty. Today, immigrants worldwide send home an
estimated $50 billion to $70 billion a year.

"The business outlook is pretty healthy and solid because there is more movement
by people out of the trouble spots of the world, more dislocation and shifting,"
said Stephen McClellan, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "People want to wire money
to those who couldn't get out."

The remittance industry is so attractive that subsidiaries of Transamerica Life
Insurance Corp. paid at least $30 million in February to acquire a 21 percent
stake in MoneyGram Payment Systems Inc., the second-largest player in Mexico.
Meanwhile, MoneyGram has been busy expanding into the money-order arena, paying
$15.6 million last month to buy the money-order business of Mid-America Bank.

"It's a very profitable business," said Manuel Somoza, marketing director for
the new money-wiring arm of BanCrecer, which started in a high-immigration
suburb of Chicago. "Your risk is minimal. It's all cash. You aren't loaning or
lending."

To compete in this exploding sector, businesses must attract consumers who lack
bank accounts, credit cards, loans or any other ties to mainstream financial
institutions. One Mexican player, consumer retailing giant Elektra, calls it
"banking for the poor."

Elektra built its $800 million chain by combining its
consumer-appliancesbusiness with counters for industry leader Western Union
Financial Services Inc. Now Elektra is adding banking services and lending
offices.

"Our clientele doesn't like banks. The people are intimidated by all the marble,
the formal atmosphere and the impersonal staff," said Pablo Collado, Elektra's
director of investor relations. "These people feel comfortable in an Elektra
store. . . . Our employees come from the same communities as our customers."

So foreign are these consumers to mainstream financial institutions that bank
officials from both countries are meeting with anthropologists to understand
this immigrant population.

Leo Estrada, a Los Angeles demographer, told of one session with officials from
a major California bank, which he would not identify. He said the bankers
struggled with "how regular bank customers would feel having poor Mexicans ask
for money orders next to well-heeled people." Ultimately, the bank opted for a
program that encouraged its immigrant customers to use the phone for their
transactions.

But other companies are reaching out. Some Mexican banks that once shunned rural
campesinos as clients are setting up special accounts so their families in the
United States can send money home.

Wells Fargo venture

Banamex, or Banco Nacional de Mexico, Mexico's second-largest retail bank, has
teamed up with Wells Fargo to offer an account that costs $10 to open and lets
U.S. immigrants wire up to $1,000 a day.

For now, however, all the new competition hasn't translated into better deals
for consumers, said Gail Hillebrand of the Consumers Union in California.

"We still think it costs too much to wire money," she said. "We'd like to see
competition on price, which we aren't seeing yet."

Still, some competition has brought undeniable improvements.

For much of this century, Mexican immigrants wired money home in much the same
way their grandparents did: slowly and inefficiently through a system plagued by
corruption and theft.

All that changed five years ago when Western Union, faced with its first real
competition from rival MoneyGram Payment Systems Inc., launched its "Money in
Minutes" service to retail outlets throughout Mexico.

Before that, Western Union wires arrived only at the national telegraph offices,
which were plagued by corruption and inefficiency, said one industry official.

"Western Union did it for a hundred years and it wasn't a very good service,"
said Warren Bechtel, a MoneyGram official who formerly represented Western
Union. A Western Union official declined to comment.

Will prices fall?

Since then, reliability has become a major advance in the industry. Some believe
better prices could be next.

MoneyGram recently announced plans to expand its $10 service fee for wiring $300
-- it had been $25 -- from a few border states to the rest of the United States.

But while service fees have come down, Hillebrand and other consumer advocates
say exchange rates -- a hidden cost -- must become more favorable before
consumers truly benefit from competition.

Some industry insiders and analysts predict service fees will drop further. A
BanCrecer official predicts that although the money-wiring industry will remain
lucrative, prices -- and profit margins -- will drop by 65 percent in the next
two years.

Others are skeptical. McClellan of Merrill Lynch said Western Union, with 55
percent of the U.S.-to-Mexico market, has such an iron grip on the global market
that no one could seriously take it on.

Western Union's dominant position was secured last fall when its parent company,
First Data Corp. of Dallas, acquired low-cost rival Orlandi Valuta.

In 1995, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission broke up a mega-merger between
industry giants Western Union and MoneyGram, which was shed by American Express.
Although it cited worries of monopoly control then, the FTC gave itsblessing to
First Data's marriage of Western Union with Orlandi Valuta.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
THE BIG PLAYERS
[Chart not taken in database]
Sources: Western Union, MoneyGram

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Lost in Transit
RELATED STORIES: pages 1A and 13A

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: SERGIO DORANTES -- SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Mexico's Elektra appliance chain has branched out into financial services it
calls "banking for the poor."
[980413 FR 13A 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 18, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SIERRA CLUB IS RIGHT TO TALK ABOUT IMMIGRATION LIMITS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 969 words


TO groups such as the Sierra Club, it should be clear that unchecked immigration
is affecting all of us ("Immigration question tears at environmentalists," Page
1A, April 12). What has surfaced among these environmental protectors is a fear
of retribution from ethnic groups -- a fear of appearing politically incorrect.
The Sierra Club needs to take a firm stand and lead the way to immigration
control.

Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's national executive director, claims that shutting
people out of America will not solve these problems. He uses the analogy of the
Earth as a spaceship, not the Titanic. Well, spaceships can crash just as the
Titanic can sink.

Others are saddened by the fact that the Sierra Club founder, John Muir,was an
immigrant from Scotland. John Muir did come to this country in 1849. But at that
time the population of the United States was drastically less than today's 269
million. We were an emerging nation with room to spare. Now, almost 150 years
later, if Muir could observe the destruction of habitat today, I'm sure he would
vote to control immigration to protect our natural resources.

We really don't have a population problem. What we have is a distribution
problem. Resources to feed, house, transport and employ all these new people,
whatever their racial origin, is not limitless. We need to focus on ways to
sustain our environment and lifestyle.

As the most affluent nation in the world, the United States cannot sustain every
new immigrant who desires to come here. I hope the Sierra Club will not be
influenced by those that deem it a racial issue when it is a pure and simple
numbers issue.

-- Kathryn Knoche
San Jose
YOUR article on the vote in the Sierra Club did a good job of presenting the
numbers on population growth that led to the present vote calling for reduced
birth rates and immigration rates in the United States. California alone will
grow by the population of the entire continent of Australia over the next three
decades if we don't act.

One misimpression left by the article is that the Sierra Club never had a
position on immigration. In fact, until the 1996 board of directors reversed
course, club policy stated, "Immigration to the U.S. should be no greater than
that which will permit achievement of population stabilization in the U.S."

The current vote is to return the club to its previous policy and get it back on
the environmental track.

-- Ric Oberlink
Sierrans for U.S. Population Stabilization
Berkeley
OUR entire quality of life suffers from too many people. Martha Jimenez,
regional counsel in San Francisco for the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, suggests in your article that we have a lot and we should
share. Currently, however, we are not sharing very well among the people who
live here already. Do we not owe a sustainable environmental future to our own
children and grandchildren?

Avoiding the "I" word today will not make the issue go away. It will only make
the future debate more contentious when we will have less time to stop the
overpopulation engine to ensure a quality of life worth living.

-- Linda Thom
Board member,
Californians for Population Stabilization
Sacramento
YOUR otherwise balanced and informative presentation of the arguments pro and
con Sierra Club consideration of immigration reform (Page 1A, April 12) glosses
over an important statistic.

The article explains that 41 percent of California's population growth in 1997
came from foreign immigration, while 55 percent was due to "natural increase" --
the rate of births over deaths. What is important to understand is that this
"natural increase" is due almost entirely to the higher fertility rates of
immigrant women.

Given this huge proportion of California's population growth that is a direct
result of immigration, should we not start taking firmer steps to stanch
immigration into California? Those concerned about our environment need to keep
this aspect in mind just as much as more traditional concerns.

-- Nancy Couperus
Los Altos Hills
I have wondered for years why the problem of population growth has not become a
more important political issue. But, alas, there is very little talk about it,
and I think I know why.

Viewing the burgeoning human population as a problem or an asset probablydepends
on one's perception of time. For those of us living one day at a time or who
plan no more than a few years ahead, population growth is a non-issue. So what
if the population grows in the Bay Area? Many of us perceive this as a benefit.
Our markets get bigger. The value of our property escalates. Denying the issue
completely, many of us simply yield to our instincts to breed and to procreate.
And we congratulate ourselves and our loved ones with heartfelt joy with each
new addition to his family. And so it will continue.

But in some not so distant year in the future, the human race, 15 or 20 billion
strong, will burn all the oil, cut every tree, kill every mammalian specie but
itself and putrefy the oceans with waste. Then, in a vast environmental
holocaust, the population will die back. This has happened many times in our
geological past. The only difference is that our time of flourishing will be
vastly shorter than that of our ancestors.

Since the die-back is inevitable, the basic issue is whether or not some us
choose to help create a few fortified islands of biological diversity from which
the biosphere might reform. That would seem to be a worthy goal. But am I really
going to do anything about it? Am I really going to give this priority in my
life? Probably not. My attitude is much like the rest of human kind today.

I've got more important issues at hand, I'm wondering where I'll go out to eat
tonight.

-- James A. Cunningham
Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A page devoted to letters from readers
Opinion

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 April 22, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS UNVEILS SOPHISTICATED ID CARD TO FOIL COUNTERFEITERS

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. TOWLE, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 738 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The "green card" -- that coveted certificate of legitimacy for immigrants and,
over the years, an object of controversy, dreams and desires -- has gone
high-tech.

Hoping to combat a decades-old problem of forgery, the government Tuesday began
mailing out the first of 50,000 new laser-etched plastic cards that will certify
legal residence and help move the Immigration and Naturalization Service into
the Digital Age.

The new card, manufactured by a Mountain View company, features holograms and
microdot portraits of all the nation's presidents. On the back is a mirrorlike
optical memory stripe that is read using CD-ROM computer technology. Mary Ann
Wyrsch, deputy commissioner of the INS, called it the "most sophisticated
document" the government agency has ever issued.

"This is another valuable weapon in our battle against document fraud," she
said, noting that the demand for fake documents had increased in recent years.
"Counterfeiters have shown unlimited ingenuity in responding to this demand."

The new green card will identify its holders as "permanent residents," rather
than "resident alien," which was stamped on the old cards.

With a green card, immigrants receive permanent authorization to work in the
United States and become eligible for most loans and government benefits that
were closed to them as illegal immigrants, temporary workers, foreign students
or professionals with a special visa status. Green-card holders also can leave
the United States and return more freely.

Initial 50,000 cards

While the INS is issuing 50,000 of the new cards to start, people who already
have the old cards don't need to worry about getting them replaced. The agency
said the new cards would be gradually phased in as the old cards expired. Wyrsch
said it could take 10 years to replace all current green cards with the new
digital card.

When the first green card was introduced in 1940, it was billed as a national
defense measure. Over the years, the card's form has changed several times; it
hasn't even been green since the 1960s.

Wyrsch said counterfeiters have used special printing machines to produce fake
versions of the current green cards. The effort, which takes minutes, produces
cards that can be sold on the black market for as little as $35 each. She said
some international crime syndicates have produced nearly perfect fakes of the
current green card that sell for as much as $15,000.

The front of the new document looks like a credit card and contains a digital
photograph, fingerprint images, a hologram depicting the Statue of Liberty, the
letters "USA" in large print, an outline of the United States and the INS seal.
The card, like the old card, costs about $10 to produce.

The reverse side of the card is nearly covered with an optical memory stripe
that contains the cardholder's name, date of birth, signature and immigration
registration number. It also contains tiny pictures, not visible to the naked
eye, of all 42 presidents.

The stripe can be read only by INS employees using a specially designed scanner.
The laser-etched information cannot be erased or altered. The INS, however, is
capable of adding information to the back of the card.

Mountain View firm

The cards are being manufactured by Drexler Technology Corp. of Mountain View,
which also developed some of the equipment and system software used to record
and read information stored on the cards. A company official said Drexler is one
of several companies producing components for the new INS program, under a
contract overseen by a Virginia firm, Information Spectrum Inc.

Drexler official Johanna Protsik said the company's laser technology has been
used to produce cards that allow patients at a Hong Kong hospital to carry their
medical histories in their wallets. The company also developed cards used by the
U.S. Army to store digitized manifests for cargo shipped around the world.

Wyrsch acknowledged that while the card is being redesigned to fight fraud, the
INS doesn't really know how widespread the problem is.

Increase in fake cards

She said the agency does not estimate how many fraudulent cards are used or
track how many are confiscated.

"We just see increasing indicators that counterfeit activity is on the
increase," she said.

Wyrsch would not say that the card could not be copied by counterfeiters, but
said it would be costly and hard to do.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Brandon Bailey contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo, Diagram;
DIAGRAM: MERCURY NEWS
'GREEN CARD' GETS HIGH-TECH MAKEOVER
Source: Drexler Technology Corp., http:, www.lasercard.com,
PHOTO: The new " green card" is intended to help the INS protect against fraud
[980422 FR 1A 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 24, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CANDIDATE FACES NANNY CONTROVERSY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 133 words


Democratic gubernatorial candidate Jane Harman may have broken the law by hiring
an immigrant nanny who had no legal authority to work in the United States.
Harman said she thought at the time that her actions were legal because the
immigrant from England was pursuing work authorization, with Harman as her U.S.
sponsor. But Thursday, instead of defending her actions as legal, Harman's
campaign staff in Sacramento said she thought they were appropriate at the time
and she has not had cause to review them since the nanny was hired in 1989. But
federal authorities say Harman violated U.S. immigration laws if she employed
the nanny before the application process was complete. Since 1986, federal law
has provided for fines of as much as $2,000 for employers of undocumented
workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  April 26, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER CONTROL PROPOSAL REJECTED SIERRA CLUB MEMBERS VOTE TO STAY NEUTRAL ON
IMMIGRATION CUTS

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1120 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Turning aside a politically explosive issue, Sierra Club members voted to reject
a plan that would have put the club on record as supporting cuts in immigration
as a way to reduce U.S. population growth.

By a vote of 60.1 percent to 39.9, club members wanting the nation's oldest and
most influential environmental group to remain neutral won the mail-in
balloting.

"The Sierra Club membership has voted overwhelmingly that birth control,not
border patrols, is the common-sense solution," said Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's
national executive director, at a news conference Saturday afternoon.

The highly contentious vote was closely watched by dozens of other environmental
organizations and immigration advocacy groups around the United States.

About 78,000 of the Sierra Club's 565,000 members voted.

Despite the relief of club leaders who were clearly happy to see the vote over,
club members advocating immigration limits immediately vowed to collect enough
signatures to place the issue on the Sierra Club ballot again next year.

"We'll be back," said Ric Oberlink, a Berkeley attorney who heads Sierrans for
U.S. Population Stabilization.

"Every study I've seen shows that all ethnic groups -- including
African-Americans and Latinos -- think that immigration levels are too high
right now. That makes sense, because it is poor people, who are
disproportionately minorities, who suffer the most from overcrowding and
competition for low-wage jobs."

For years, most of the nation's leading environmental groups have lobbied for
the United States to support international family-planning programs. But none of
them, with the exception of the Wilderness Society, has taken a stand on
reducing U.S. immigration levels.

The Sierra Club's vote pitted many of America's leading environmentalists on
opposite sides.

For example, even though the Sierra Club's 15-member board of directors went on
record as opposing any immigration stance, board member David Brower, who won
the most votes of any candidate in getting re-elected to the board Sunday, said
the club had made a mistake.

'No place to park'

"If California continues to grow at the rate it has since I was born here," said
Brower, 85, in an interview afterward, "the population will be 500 million in
the next 85 years. There'll be no place to park. We'll all have to park in
Oregon."

Brower, who blocked the construction of dams in the Grand Canyon and expanded
the Sierra Club from a small hiking outfit to a national powerhouse during his
term as executive director in the 1950s and 1960s, had remained neutral on the
issue until late in the campaign. He said the club's current leadership ducked
the topic because of its racially charged overtones.

"People who picked on race, it's a cheap shot," he said. "We're just looking at
the gross numbers and saying it can't go on. Let's have an orderly retreat. I
love our diversity and I don't want to stop it. But we can't handle these
numbers of people."

Yet others argue the subject only can lead to a political disaster for the
ecology movement. They fear that if groups such as the Sierra Club, National
Audubon Society and others begin pushing for stricter immigration controls, it
will only serve to alienate ethnic minorities -- particularly Latinos -- who so
far have constituted just a small part of a movement dominated by white,
upper-middle-class Americans.

Unite for environment

"With this vote, the Sierra Club can once again focus its attention on the
environmental issues that it has championed for so long," said U.S. Rep. Xavier
Becerra, D-Los Angeles, the chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "It
can once again work to unite all sectors of America in the fight for clean air,
clean water and environmental justice."

Population is a global question, much of the Sierra Club leadership contends.
The real issue is U.S. consumption.

"There is no place for the Sierra Club to be involved in blaming immigrants for
our environmental problems," said Sierra Club President Adam Werbach, who had
threatened to resign if his side lost. "This vote today is a strong statement
for unity."

Immigration is playing an increasingly large role in U.S. population growth:

* America is adding about 2.5 million people a year. Foreign immigrantsmake up
roughly 33 percent of new growth, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The
bureau predicts that the current U.S. population of 269 million -- now
third-largest in the world behind China and India -- will balloon to 393 million
by 2050 at current birth and immigration levels, with 60 percent of the growth
in the next half-century coming from post-1995 immigrants and their children.

* There are more people living in California today than in all of Canada. With
33 million residents, the nation's most populous state has doubled in population
since 1961 and quadrupled since 1942.

* Last year, 41 percent of California's 525,000 population growth came from
foreign immigration. Another 55 percent came from the number of births exceeding
the deaths and 4 percent came from migration from other states.

The state can accommodate more people, some contend, if it simply uses better
planning, less consumption, mass transit and other environmentally friendly
policies.

Lining up against any immigration recommendations by the Sierra Club were
Dolores Huerta, co-founder of the United Farm Workers; the Sierra Club's board
of directors; five former Sierra Club presidents; former U.S. Rep. Peter
Kostmayer, who is executive director of Zero Population Growth; as well as Brent
Blackwelder, president of Friends of the Earth; and Carl Anthony, president of
Earth Island Institute.

Urging the Sierra Club to take a position in favor of reducing immigration were
Stewart Udall, U.S. Interior secretary under presidents Kennedy and Johnson;
Edward O. Wilson, the Harvard professor of entomology who has won two Pulitzer
prizes; Huey Johnson, California's secretary of Resources under Gov. Jerry
Brown; as well as renowned nature photographer Galen Rowell; Paul Watson, the
co-founder of Greenpeace, and Dave Foreman, a founder of Earth First! and former
Sierra Club board member.

Despite the fact that the vote made public a messy fight within the
environmental movement, some observers say it will strengthen it.

Issue will resurface

"I don't think they can put the issue back in the bottle and I'm not sure they
should," said Mark Dowie, author of "Losing Ground: American Environmentalism at
the Close of the 20th Century." "The environmental movement should look at
population movements and immigration as an issue. That's important, but it
should be looked at globally. The debate is healthy."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Werbach
Says he would have resigned had vote gone other way.
[980426 FR 1A 1]
PHOTO: Brower
[980426 FR 6A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 6, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IS IMMIGRATION AN ENVIRONMENTAL THREAT?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 143 words


THE Sierra Club's vote on whether to support cuts in immigration is over, but
the issue is sure to resurface. While Sierra Club members voted against taking
such a stand, essentially opting for a neutral position, thoughtful observers of
the environmental and population-control movements know the debate is not over.
Continued high immigration to the United States, and particularly California,
will ensure continuing disputes over whether immigration is a substantial threat
to ecosystems, both local and global; whether solutions should be sought through
national policies or through initiatives in the developing world; and whether
strong stands on immigration spell political death for environmental groups.

The Mercury News has solicited opinions from some of the most visible players in
this controversy. Their articles are printed below.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: page 6B

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 6, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GLOBAL FAMILY PLANNING IS THE POSITIVE APPROACH

BYLINE: PETER H. KOSTMAYER

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 416 words


IMMIGRATION has become a flash point for controversy. Some argue -- incorrectly
-- that immigration is the main cause of U.S. population growth and that an
immigration ban or near ban is needed now.

Most, but not all, environmentalists see a more hopeful path. We seek to address
rapid rates of population growth through effective, voluntary approaches such as
family planning and the education and empowerment of women.

For the past 30 years, Zero Population Growth and its members (now 60,000
nationwide) have been educating the public about the impacts of population
growth and the environmental devastation that overpopulation can cause.
Campaigns through the years such as "Stop at two" and "For Earth's sake" have
resonated with people because these approaches are voluntary and positive. And,
since migration is a worldwide phenomenon, solutions must be global, or they
just won't work.

As for the U.S. population surge itself, it's useful to look at the numbers.
There are about 3.8 million births in this country each year and 1.2 million
immigrants. So, there are about 5 million "new" people each year. Subtract the
2.6 million annual deaths and out-migration (people moving out of the U.S.) and
the population grows by 2.4 million per year. Two-thirds of that growth can be
attributed to births resulting from unplanned pregnancies. In fact, one of every
two pregnancies occurring in the United States each year is unintended.

The 1.6 million births due to unintended pregnancies will add more to the U.S.
population this year than legal and illegal immigration combined. Those
unintended births reflect shortcomings in such areas as contraceptive research
and availability, provision of voluntary family planning, teen pregnancy
prevention and comprehensive age-appropriate sex education. Why not focus our
efforts in these areas and seek to make sure that every child is a planned and
wanted child?

Globally, international voluntary family planning will do more to relieve
population pressures than any amount of nativist rhetoric. Closer to home,
extending wider access to family planning services by fully funding U.S. family
planning clinics and by requiring health insurance plans to cover FDA-approved
contraceptives will reduce unintended births.

We must invest in women's education and empowerment along with family planning.
That's the right way to tackle the real causes of population growth and
environmental destruction in the U.S. and around the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Peter H. Kostmayer is executive director of Zero Population Growth.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 6, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NOW THE SIERRA CLUB CAN FIGHT THE REAL CULPRITS

BYLINE: MELANIE OKAMOTO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 356 words


Pro-environment should never mean anti-people. People are a part of the picture.
Yet, anti-immigration crusaders attempt to blame immigrants for environmental
problems.

The vote by Sierra Club members to reject new immigration restrictions in favor
of global solutions shows that scapegoating is out of step with the
environmental movement. Thus, the grass-roots members of the country's oldest
environmental group have affirmed that blaming immigrants is misguided and
mean-spirited.

We need a bold vision for environmental protection. We must keep the timber
industry from clear-cutting our national forests, clean up the 40 percent of
America's waterways that are still polluted, and make a transition from fossil
fuels to renewable energy. In order to achieve this vision, we need the support
of all Americans, including newcomers. Immigrants also care about clean air,
clean water and wilderness protection.

Now the Sierra Club can dedicate its energy to fighting the real culprits, such
as logging companies chopping down the Headwaters forest, developers putting
golf courses in wetlands and chemical companies fouling our air and water. This
is also an opportunity for the Sierra Club to build new alliances to protect the
environment, health and human rights.

Anti-immigrant groups outside the Sierra Club tried to buy this election.
According to Michael Dorsey, Sierra Club board member and researcher at Johns
Hopkins University, anti-immigration extremists spent at least $700,000 lobbying
Sierra Club members. They repackaged their message in environmental rhetoric in
an attempt to win credibility.

Reinforcing anti-immigrant attitudes, as the defeated Measure A did, adds to the
climate of discrimination and human rights abuses. After political demagogues
have laid the blame for every conceivable ill on immigrants, and even hammered
immigrants with discriminatory applications of welfare reform, ruthless border
control practices and dehumanizing rhetoric, Sierra Club members saw that it is
unconscionable for environmentalists to jump on the anti-immigration bandwagon
and add to human misery.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Melanie Okamoto is campaign organizer for the Political Ecology Group in San
Francisco.
RELATED STORIES: page 6B

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ISAAC

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 6, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE REALITY: MORE IMMIGRANTS, MORE CONSUMPTION

BYLINE: PAUL WATSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 572 words


HUMANITY sometimes seems to believe that we can solve a problem simply by
denying that the problem exists.

In 1972, I attended the United Nations Conference on the Environment in
Stockholm. The problem that headed the agenda was uncontrolled human population
growth.

Over the next 20 years, 2 billion more people were added to the problem. I found
myself attending the 1992 United Nations Conference on the Environment and
Development in Rio de Janeiro. Surprisingly, the issue of overpopulation was not
even on the agenda. The Vatican and the Catholic host nation of Brazil had
protested.

And so it was not even discussed. End of story.

Not quite. The problem continues to persist despite people's refusal to talk
about it, let alone actually do anything about it.

The trend has increasingly become one of denial. If we just don't talk about it,
well, perhaps it will go away.

Now it is the Sierra Club that has been caught between the need to confront
reality and those who deny or are afraid to confront reality.

The Sierra Club, as an environmental organization, has no power to dictate the
immigration policies of the United States. However, it does have the right to
debate issues affecting the environment, and the membership has a right to
express an opinion.

Sierra Club Executive Director Carl Pope has said, "The environment is the only
thing that unites us (Sierra Club), and this (immigration) is not really an
environmental issue."

Interesting. If uncontrolled human population growth is not an environmental
issue, I really don't know what is. It was considered the No. 1 environmental
issue at Stockholm.

Population growth is, of course, a problem that has many causes and many
effects, including increased stress on "carrying capacity," the ability of the
planet to support life. One of those problems is increased consumption of
resources and increased production of waste. North Americans are the most
wasteful, most consumptive people on Earth. The average impact of a North
American compared to a Third World person is somewhere in the range of 20 to 1.
Every person who enters North America from a Third World country becomes a
consumer and waste producer at a rate 19 times greater than the previous impact.
Thus, 1 million new U.S. residents a year mean consumer usage and waste creation
equal to that of an extra 19 million people on the planet.

Immigration primarily benefits corporate America and hurts the lower classes of
Americans, including many previous immigrants. These new Americans are ready to
work to accumulate money to purchase cars, appliances, houses, luxury goods and
lottery tickets. This makes the manufacturers happy. More people mean more tax
revenue. This makes the government happy. It also means increased competition
for cheap labor, keeping wages low, and this also benefits employers while
hurting those who are trying to climb the economic ladder.

The accusation that a stand to reduce immigration is racist is music to the ears
of those who profit from the cheap labor of immigrants. They are the same people
who love to see environmentalists make fools of themselves.

And there is no environmentalist more foolish than one who refuses to confront
the fact that uncontrolled human population growth is the No. 1 cause of the
world's increasing environmental problems, including the loss of plant and
animal species in unprecedented numbers.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Captain Paul Watson is founder of the international Sea Shepherd Conservation
Society, a co-founder of the Greenpeace Foundation, and a Canadian citizen.
RELATED STORIES: page 6B

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 7, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ENGLISH IS THE GOAL, BUT HOW TO GET THERE?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 10B

LENGTH: 1390 words


What's the best way to help students become fluent in English, and keep up in
other subjects?

For years, the state told schools to teach limited-English-proficient
studentsprimarily in their native language while also teaching English, a method
known as bilingual education.

Proposition 227 says the answer is structured English immersion -- teaching in
English designed for language learners -- with most students mainstreamed in a
year.

On Sunday, we printed a discussion among students and teachers. The discussion
continues in an online forum on Mercury Center. As of May 5, critics have
dominated. Here's an excerpt with comments by parents Ze'ev Wurman and Luz Delia
Contreras, Boston University professor Christine Rossell, Redwood City
Superintendent Ronald Crates, bilingual teachers Lisa Dilles and Julia Bell,
teacher educator Jill Kerper Mora and immigrants Tom Holzel and Kimberly Tran.

To read the full forum, and add your views, go to
http://www.mercurycenter.com/opinion and click on the "English Lessons"
blackboard.
Ze'ev Wurman: The goals: acquire the English language; teach academic skills at
a level similar to that of non-immigrants; rapidly absorb the immigrant children
in the American society as equals.

The non-goals: preserve the native language of the student; develop knowledge
and appreciation of native culture and customs. (The above non-goals may be
preserved by the family of the student.)

.
Christine Rossell: How long does it take to reach full proficiency in a second
language? Many years.

How long before a non-English speaker can comprehend enough instruction to not
feel lost in a classroom taught in English? The answer may be as short as a few
months.

However, many students put into bilingual education classes speak and understand
some English; some are even fluent but have low test scores. These students can
immediately comprehend what is going on in an all-English classroom.
Luz Delia Contreras: My oldest girl when she was two she was in day care. They
speak English only to her so she learn very good the language. When she got to
go to kinder they gave her Spanish classes only. For two or three months she got
so confused and she couldn't say any words either in Spanish or English. I got
so mad I thought it was not fair for her, so I help her. When she finished
kinder she knew how to read and write Spanish. At first grade she started to get
more English classes than Spanish. Now at third grade she can communicate --
read and write in both languages and I feel very proud of her. I don't think you
need to take away bilingual classes. We need to improve.
Tom Holzel:

I entered 1st grade days after arriving from Berlin and felt no difficulty
speaking English after the first year. Reading was more difficult till I
suddenly caught on and became the fastest reader in the class.

The best laid plans often end in failure mode. With bilingual, its failure mode
is years of watered-down instruction that guarantees pupils will master neither
English or Spanish. The failure mode of total immersion is that individual kids
may be frustrated to failure. The latter is far more amenable to cures than the
former.
Lisa Dilles: Our schools typically have offered very little English Language
Development (not a self-funded program, according to my district) and often the
instruction -- if any -- is done by an aide.

I used to think that concurrent learning of content and English would enable my
students to make a comfortable leap to English literacy. For the majority of 4th
and 5th grade students this has not been the case. Maybe 2 out of 10 make the
hoped-for transition.
Ze'ev Wurman: Coming from Poland, I entered Israeli second grade after four
weeks of summer school where they taught us Hebrew. I spoke reasonably well by
mid-year. When I came to the U.S., my eldest entered kindergarten. He got
someEnglish as a Second Language help and suffered miserably for a couple of
months. Then he caught up, and stopped hating school. By the first grade he was
at the top of his class.

Bilingual education is not working for language acquisition, and academics tend
to be watered down for bilingual classes. One can find a few pockets of
excellence, but we clearly cannot guarantee that across the state.
Christine Rossell: Although there are some very good bilingual programs that
start off teaching the kids in their native tongue and then quickly transition
them to English, an awful lot of programs keep them in their native tongue long
after it is useful. The theory on which bilingual ed is based says to keep
non-English-speakers in their native tongue until they reach full proficiency.
We don't know what that is: Some teachers have interpreted it as their entire
elementary school career.
Ronald F. Crates:

For any educational program to be successful, it must be systematic and
consistent. We should be able to explicitly state what we expect children to
know and do, align best practices to what we expect children to know and do;
align training programs for staff and the community to these practices and
organize the school calendar and the school day to focus on what we explicitly
expect children to know and do. We then must monitor progress and develop next
steps based on the information from analyzing student performance.

The needs of English language learners vary because of family backgrounds,
economic status and the community where the children live. The Unz initiative
determines how to teach all English language learners in California.

I suggest that revenue enhancement for the local school system be linked to
performance results.
Kimberly Tran: I think that bilingual education will only hinder the child's
learning process. I came here 17 years ago and started the 2nd grade with no
English skills whatsoever. I did not have someone teach me in my native
language. I remember going to speech classes every day for one year (taught in
English only), and once a week in 4th grade. By the time I was in the 5th grade,
I was doing 6th grade work, and have continued to excel ever since. You will
only be proficient in a language if you are exposed to it regularly and you
practice it regularly.
Jill Kerper Mora: As a teacher educator who prepares English Language
Development teachers, I believe Proposition 227 will cause a crisis by shifting
responsibility of teaching limited English students away from bilingual teachers
who have the skill and training to provide appropriate instruction in English
language, reading and academic content, to mainstream teachers who are not
trained to teach these children effectively.
Julia Bell: Three children have come from Mexico into my second-grade classroom
in the past two months. None of them have any English at all. They will learn
"social English" from their classmates but conceptual English will be much more
difficult and less achievable if it is not built upon their knowledge in
Spanish. We teach reading in Spanish and then in English. It works! Trying to
teach these students to read in English at this point just doesn't work.
Lisa Dilles: As a bilingual teacher, I felt I was doing a fine job with my
first-grade Spanish readers. When I became a reading resource teacher, I was
shocked at the 4th and 5th graders' modest progress in Spanish reading and very
limited English reading. Where was the transfer of knowledge that was one of the
bases for bilingual instruction? These kids had not gotten the intense English
support to be successful in middle school and beyond. This has been the case in
3 districts I've worked in. In general, our bilingual programs do not create
students who are ready for mainstream all-English programs after 5 years of
instruction. For an English-speaker to learn Spanish is great! For a
Spanish-speaker to learn English is critical.

William Pulte: In bilingual programs children have the opportunity to learn
concepts in difficult subjects such as math and science, because these classes
are usually taught partially in the native language, promotingunderstanding and
mastery of the material.

Outside of bilingual programs, children who do not understand English fall far
behind during the period when they are learning English but cannot understand
the concepts their teachers are trying to present.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
THE BILINGUAL DEBATE

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARRIE MAGUIRE

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 20, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS TURNED BACK IN APPEALS CASE ON DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 246 words


An appeals court in California has upheld a nationwide injunction against the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service for failing to notify thousands
facing deportation of their right to contest allegations of using false
documents. The three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed a lower-court ruling that the INS had violated the Constitution by
failing to inform people charged with using false documents that they could
request hearings to rebut the allegations.

In 1996, a Seattle judge barred the INS from continuing its current practices
and ordered the government to provide clear information to immigrants about
their rights. Moreover, the INS was ordered to place media notices in Mexico and
elsewhere in Latin America to notify people who may have been wrongly deported
because of allegations of document fraud without understanding those rights.

The appeals court opinion, written by Judge Stephen Reinhardt after hearings in
Pasadena, largely backed the lower-court ruling. The judges assailed the
"complexity and ineptness" of the INS procedures, concluding that even those
with "a reasonable command of the English language would not receive adequate
notice" from the agency. Some 5,000 immigrants nationwide faced deportation
after being accused of using false documents under a 1990 law. Those accused are
seeking hearings to contest the charges. The INS has argued that everyone
targeted had received adequate notice.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 24, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEBATE DIVIDES ON IMMIGRATION GOVERNOR HOPEFULS: THREE DEMOS TRIED TO DISTANCE
THEMSELVES FROM GOP'S DAN LUNGREN IN BILINGUAL EVENT.

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The major candidates for governor engaged in a spirited but civilized debate on
Saturday in which the three Democrats, led by U.S. Rep. Jane Harman's pointed
remarks, did more to differentiate themselves from Republican Attorney General
Dan Lungren than from one another.

It was the first-ever bilingual gubernatorial debate, sponsored by KMEX-TV and
La Opinion newspaper, and was broadcast live in Spanish by the Univision network
although the candidates spoke exclusively in English.

The differences between Lungren and the Democrats -- airline tycoon Al Checchi,
Lt. Gov. Gray Davis and Harman -- were underscored on immigration and economic
policy. All of the Democrats opposed 1994's Proposition 187, which sought to
eliminate education and health services for illegal immigrants. After wavering
on the issue, Lungren supported it.

While each of the Democrats agreed with the premise of a question Saturday that
the gap is widening between the rich and poor in California, Lungren rejected
the notion as a suggestion of "class warfare."

Given the Republicans' history of ignoring Latino voters, Lungren won points
with many in the audience, including Univision President Henry Cisneros, just
for showing up.

But among the Democrats, it was Harman who used the forum to most sharply argue
her party's differences with Lungren on abortion rights, health care reform,
tobacco legislation, and especially gun control.

"I believe I'm the best Democrat on this stage to contrast our differences with
Dan Lungren on issues like guns and the need to ban Saturday-night specials to
save kids from violence in schools; on our differences on tobacco; on our
differences on a woman's right to reproductive choice," she said.

Harman was first to call attention to Lungren's support for Proposition 187, a
measure reviled by most Latinos, according to polling data. She also was the
first to challenge Lungren on a fundamental economic issue when Lungren
responded to a question asking how he would address the growing gap between the
rich and poor.

"I'm not sure I totally accept the premise of the question," Lungren said. "John
Kennedy told us that a rising tide lifts all boats. I still believe that." He
said the way to lift up the poor is to improve schools, reduce the capital gains
tax and nourish small businesses.

"The gap is growing," Harman replied. "All boats are not rising right now, Dan.
John Kennedy's dream has not come true." She, too, pointed to improving
education as key to the solution, but she argued that banning cheap handguns and
assault rifles is critical to create safe conditions in neighborhoods that most
need economic development.

Davis, the Democratic front-runner, said the minimum wage should be reviewed
regularly and he mentioned his support for a University of California campus in
the Central Valley, a proposal all of the Democrats support. "Ultimately," he
agreed, "the solution lies in education."

"You and I have been traveling in a different state, Dan," said Checchi, former
co-chairman of Northwest Airlines, noting that half the people in the state have
not seen increased wages. But Checchi, who now trails Davis in the polls, turned
the question on Davis.

"Gray, you keep saying I spent my life making money. It would have done you well
to spend a little time in the private sector." He pointed to Texas Gov. George
W. Bush, a former businessman like himself, as a model who "wasn't sitting 25
years in a government position, bumping along."

Davis later responded that while Checchi claims to have created 10,000 jobs
running a $6 billion business, he created 30,000 jobs as state controller
through a housing program he established through the state's retirementsystem.

Held at Loyola Marymount College, the forum was targeted to Latino voters. While
they have, historically, made up only about 10 percent of the vote, Latino
organizers hope to increase that percentage dramatically this year.

Lungren joined the three Democrats in the debate because the June 2 primary, for
the first time, allows voters, regardless of their party registration, to pick
any candidate. The winner from each party will advance to the November election.

The only new proposal put forth at the debate came from Davis, who, during a
discussion of immigrants' effect on the wages of current citizens, said: "As
governor, I would also make the good offices of state agencies available to
accelerate the opportunities for people to become citizens. We should encourage,
not discourage, people becoming citizens of the state when they come here
legally."

But at a press conference following the debate, Davis retracted his proposal
when asked how much he expected it would cost. Calling his idea "a very modest
step," Davis said he had no cost estimate and that he was only proposing to
"explore" the possibility of the state helping the Immigration and
Naturalization Service process new immigrants as some counties do now.

If the candidates follow through with statements they made Saturday, the debate
marked a new phase of the campaign. Checchi, who aired about $6 million in
negative ads against Harman and then about $4 million against Davis, said he
plans to spend the rest of the campaign talking about education and his own
proposals for California.

His campaign manager, Darry Sragow, rejected the notion that this was a tactical
shift necessitated by Checchi's disastrously high negative ratings in the polls.
Rather, he said, "It's time to focus on what Al wants to do as governor of
California."

At a post-debate press conference, Checchi said his rivals' complaints about his
negative campaigning were "a sideshow to divert people from the real issues." He
also angrily denounced reports in the San Francisco Chronicle that he had
mistreated domestic servants as "a fabrication and a smear on my family."

Speaking to reporters after the debate, Lungren defended his stand on
Proposition 187 and Proposition 209, which eliminated public-sector affirmative
action programs. He repeated his belief that the reason the GOP has done poorly
among Latinos is not its positions but the way in which it has communicated its
message.

"My party's principles are principles that are dead-bang in the mainstream of
the Hispanic community," he said.

Harman argued that she had demonstrated in the debate that because of her record
and her style, she offered Democrats "the strongest contrast" to Lungren and she
criticized Davis for failing to fight for the ban on cheap handguns that was
recently approved by the Legislature, but vetoed by Gov. Pete Wilson.

Davis told reporters he is "proud of his record on gun control," having been an
early supporter of measures to limit weapons.

Asked by a reporter if, having aired an ad in 1992 that compared Dianne
Feinstein to Leona Helmsley, he was credible when he complains about negative
ads, Davis replied: "I believe, and I hope you do to, in the possibility of
redemption."

He pledged to run a positive campaign from here on out. "I don't think people
want to see a food fight," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
California governor candidates, from left, Al Checchi, Dan Lungren, Jane Harman
and Gray Davis participated Saturday in the first-ever bilingual debate at
Loyola Marymount College in Los Angeles.
[980524 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 25, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEDI-CAL REFUNDS PLANNED LAWSUIT:STATE POISED TO RETURN FUNDS TAKEN FROM LEGAL
IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1747 words


Admitting past blunders, California health officials now appear ready to pay
back millions of dollars they recovered -- some say "extorted" -- from legal
immigrants.

Several years ago, the Department of Health Services launched an anti-fraud
program aimed at stopping foreigners from bilking the state's Medi-Cal system.

But the initiative took a bizarre turn when the state began pressuring legal
U.S. residents -- even citizens -- to pay back Medi-Cal benefits they were
legally entitled to receive, or risk having their relatives' visa applications
rejected.

The so-called Public Charge Lookout System has triggered widespread fear in
immigrant communities amid reports of immigration officers and state
investigators yanking green cards at airports and border checkpoints from
immigrant travelers who received Medi-Cal, the state's health program for the
poor. The initiative has spurred many legal immigrants to avoid prenatal care
and drop their children from Medi-Cal rolls.

"It's an extortion plot," Bill Wong, a health policy consultant to state Sen.
Hilda Solis, D-El Monte, said of the program. "It's nuts."

State health officials, however, now say that they're no longer accepting
reimbursements from former Medi-Cal recipients for lawfully received benefits.

"We've stopped," said department Deputy Director Walter Barnes, who heads the
audits and investigations division.

He said the state was close to settling a class-action suit filed last year by
San Diego Friends of Legal Aid aimed at halting the practice and recovering more
than $3 million paid by former Medi-Cal recipients over the past two years.
Attorneys familiar with the case say that the proposed settlement calls for
reimbursing the recipients.

The lawsuit was filed as the result of the department's cooperation with the
U.S. State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service in enacting
the lookout system. The federal program, which grew out of the landmark 1996
welfare reform law, is designed to prevent people from entering the country who
might become burdens to U.S. taxpayers.

Being a potential "public charge" has always been a cause for denying someone
admission to the United States. But only in recent years have the INS and State
Department forged formal agreements with states to provide computerized
public-assistance data on immigrants who are sponsoring relatives to come to the
United States.

In 1994, the state began stationing investigators at the U.S.-Mexico border and
major airports to look for foreign residents with Medi-Cal cards or a history of
illegally receiving public benefits. But two years later, after California
joined the "lookout system," the anti-fraud and public-charge programs began to
blur in the minds of INS officers, state investigators and immigrants.

It started when officers in U.S. embassies and consulates began telling would-be
immigrants and their sponsors that the chances for visas would be improved if
public assistance "debts" were paid. The practice soon spread to INS airport
counters and border checkpoints.

Repayment for visas

Top State Department and INS officials claim the virtual quid pro quo --
repayment for visas -- was being offered on a "piecemeal basis" without the
approval of superiors in Washington. INS and health department employees in
California began giving the same advice, but it became laden with intimidation.

In one typical case, a 33-year-old Yolo County woman said she had been trying to
move her parents to California for years. In December, she said, they finally
got an interview at the U.S. Consulate in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.

"They called me in and said everything else was in order except that I had used
Medi-Cal, so they would not approve my parents' visa application until I had
paid it back," said the woman, who requested anonymity because she feared
publicity would hurt her parents' chances of coming to this country.

The woman, a U.S. citizen, said she called a state health department office in
the city of Commerce and was chastised by an employee, who told her she had no
right to the Medi-Cal she had legally received.

She was later sent a $2,900 bill for Medi-Cal payments for the birth of her
second son. She was advised by an attorney not to pay.

The woman said her family of six, all citizens, lives on $32,000 a year, mostly
from her husband's farm and ranch work. She said her family had used Medi-Cal to
help pay for the birth of her sons, in 1989 and 1997, only because my husband
doesn't get health insurance at work."

The Medi-Cal anti-fraud program was set up after investigators in New York and
California discovered foreign visitors in need of medical help illegally signing
up for Medicaid, the federal health program for the poor (called Medi-Cal in
California).

It was a case involving about 50 Philippine Airlines flight attendants that
really caught the attention of the State Department. California investigators
said that the women had used their multiple-entry visas to give birth in the
United States. Most of them received Medi-Cal, and their children became
citizens eligible for the program.

New targets

But two years ago, people who had received Medi-Cal legally also began being
targeted. The state health department sent out essentially the same form letters
to immigrants who legally obtained Medi-Cal as the ones used to demand repayment
from people who had fraudulently obtained Medi-Cal benefits or had been
overpaid.

Barnes, who has been in his job only three months, called the practice
unfortunate because benefits legally received were "categorized as a debt,
something that was owed. That was a leap."

At the same time, the INS also began turning the "lookout system" into a demand
for Medi-Cal reimbursement.

When Maria del Carmen Navarro arrived from Mexico at Los Angeles International
Airport on Sept 1., INS officers asked for her green card and whether she had
ever used Medi-Cal. She said yes.

"Then they investigated me, my children and my husband for about an hour and a
half," she said. "They took my green card, asked for our Social Security numbers
and our Medi-Cal cards."

Navarro, a legal resident who came to the United States in 1990, said she had
legally received Medi-Cal since 1992, when her first child was born.

But, the 44-year-old Los Angeles resident said, one INS officer looked upset and
told her she should never have been given a green card, because she had received
Medi-Cal.

Navarro got her green card back, but an investigator handed her a piece of paper
with a state health department phone number. She said the INS officer told her:
"They are going to charge you, and don't refuse to pay for the Medi-Cal you have
used."

$14,000 bill

In December, Navarro said, she received a letter from the health department
informing her she had "voluntarily" asked for a Medi-Cal bill. "Then they called
me on the phone and told me I had to pay almost $14,000," she said.

At the time, Navarro said, her husband was supporting the family on $800 a
month, so she didn't send any money. She was later told by social service
workers that numerous Latinas with children arriving on international flights
were targets.

Senior officials of the INS, State Department and U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services say they began hearing about abuses in late 1997. They fired off
letters in December to federal employees and the state Department of Health
Services, ordering them to stop. U.S. health officials told states they had no
right to collect Medi-Cal reimbursements if they weren't the result of fraud or
overpayment.

INS officials in California said they immediately told officers to stop
interrogating legal U.S. residents about Medi-Cal use. But it took a while for
word to filter down at the state health department. It wasn't until early April
that clear instructions to investigators and other employees were issued,
department officials say.

In any case, some health officials express regret in how the program was
handled. "We went into it with good intentions," Barnes said. "But I guess you
hate to get into something and find out you've done it wrong."

But advocates for immigrants say that some of the damage may be irreversible.

Former Santa Cruz Mayor Jane Yokoyama, director of the Santa Cruz County
Immigration Project, said many legal immigrants are now fearful of accepting any
kind of public benefit because they believe it will hurt their relatives'
immigration chances.

Yokoyama said she's interviewed pregnant women who have avoided going tothe
doctor because they couldn't afford it and didn't want to use Medi-Cal. She also
recently talked to some out-of-work laborers in Santa Cruz who said they were
hungry but fearful of going to a food bank because "they might keep records,"
Yokoyama said.

Ironically, all this is happening as California officials gear up to persuade
the parents of hundreds of thousands of uninsured children -- many of them kids
of immigrants -- to sign up for the federally funded Healthy Families insurance
program.

"The problem," said one Latino roofer in Watsonville, is "that immigration wants
all of us to pay for the few who abuse this kind of help."

Drops assistance

A legal resident for 10 years, the man said the only public assistance he has
ever accepted was Medi-Cal for his 18-month-old daughter. But he recently
dropped it because he was afraid it might affect the future immigration status
of his wife, a strawberry picker who is about to lose her one-year work permit.

"I went directly to the Medi-Cal office and told them that if my daughter got
sick I would pay with my own money," said the 32-year-old man, who asked for
anonymity because of his wife's immigration status.

At recent budget hearings in Sacramento, both the Senate and the Assembly budget
subcommittees axed funding for both the "public charge" and Medi-Cal anti-fraud
programs, although the issue remains to be negotiated between Democrats and the
administration of Gov. Pete Wilson.

Navarro, meanwhile, said her experience with the Public Charge Lookout System
still haunts her.

"I want to know if everything has been erased from my records," she said. "What
if all of a sudden I need to leave the country and this information is going to
be at the airport computer?

You think that you have all your papers and are playing by the rules, and then
they come up with this."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marina Hinestrosa, a staff writer for Nuevo Mundo, the Spanish-language
weekly of the Mercury News, contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  May 27, 1998 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ID-THEFT VICTIM LOSES MOST VALUED POSSESSION

BYLINE: JENNIFER MENA, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1538 words


A San Jose security guard fears that an alleged serial rapist has ruined his
good name.

The rape suspect told police his name was Israel Quintana Torres. He later
revealed he is actually an undocumented immigrant who goes by another name. But
it was already too late. The name was tarnished, linked in the media to the
rapes of five people in East San Jose.

A man named Israel Quintana Torres says he lost his birth certificate in 1988
and has had several identification-related problems over the years. When he
heard on TV that a man with his name was in custody, he feared how the arrest
might affect him.

"I want to make it clear that I didn't commit any crime. I do not want a stain
on my record," said Quintana Torres.

His story, although impossible to corroborate, appears to be a case of
identification fraud, a crime spreading like an epidemic, according to experts
who work with undocumented immigrants and identity theft.

Quintana Torres and the rape suspect, whose family says his real name is Julian
Galvan, are both Spanish-speaking residents of East San Jose. They both held
blue-collar jobs. But that's where their similarities end.

Quintana Torres was born March 16, 1956, in Ponce, Puerto Rico, and is therefore
a U.S. citizen. Galvan is from Mexico and entered the United States illegally,
his family says. Another case against him gives his date of birth as Dec. 14,
1976.

As a Puerto Rican who speaks little English, Quintana Torres said, he often
carries his passport and birth certificate to show he is an American citizen.

"People don't realize what I am, that I am American, too," he said. "They say
I'm from Honduras, Central American. They really don't know."

Sometime in 1988, Quintana Torres said, he lost his birth certificate in San
Jose. He said he either dropped it or left it in his car and it was stolen. He
said he reported to police that his papers were missing. Sgt. Derek Edwards, a
San Jose police spokesman, said he was unable to verify that such a report was
made.

Later that year, Quintana Torres tried to renew his California driver's license
but was denied because he was told he had been in three traffic incidents. He
successfully fought that allegation, offering a fingerprint to show he was not
the man involved. It is not known who was using his identification in 1988.

Accident case

In 1994, an Israel Quintana Torres, who gave the same birth date and address as
the security guard, was convicted of lying to a police officer, a misdemeanor.
There was a traffic accident in San Jose, and at first he claimed to be the
driver in the car that was responsible. He pleaded guilty in May 1996 and was
put on two years' probation. Again, it is impossible to tell who was using
Quintana Torres' papers at that point.

The conviction surfaced when Quintana Torres applied for several jobs between
1988 and 1998, but he was able to convince his employers that he was the victim
of a mix-up.

In 1995, Galvan illegally crossed the border from Mexico and came north to San
Jose, his family says.

Like many undocumented workers, Galvan needed to acquire bogus papers that an
employer would believe were real. As the result of a 1986 law, all employees,
United States- or foreign-born, must show proof of identity and authorization to
work in the United States -- a passport, a Social Security card and birth
certificate or a "green card."

"The market in the illegal alien community skyrocketed with the Immigration
Reform and Control Act" of 1986, said Virginia Kice, spokeswoman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

"You can buy a reasonable counterfeit green card for less than two first-run
movie tickets. . . . There are vendors on the streets selling them like tacos or
hot dogs," said Kice.

Explanations differ

Galvan's common-law wife, Marisela Sanchez, initially said Galvan had bought a
Puerto Rican birth certificate bearing the name Israel Quintana Torres. She now
claims Galvan found the birth certificate on the street three years ago.
Security guard Quintana Torres denied ever selling his birth certificate.

Sanchez believes her husband used it to get a driver's license -- with a birth
date of March 16, 1966 -- and a Social Security card. However, Social Security
officials say it is unlikely the Social Security number Galvan was using
corresponds to the name Israel Quintana Torres. It may also have been stolen
from another identity fraud victim.

With these pieces of identification, Galvan held two jobs -- at a recycling
plant and a supermarket.

On April 30, police announced they had arrested a man they identified as Israel
Quintana Torres, 32, and alleged he was a vicious criminal who had terrorized
East San Jose since November, sexually assaulting a 3-year-old, an 8-year-old,
two 13-year-olds and a 78-year-old. He faces up to 100 years in prison if
convicted of all the charges.

Investigators are trying to determine what the rape suspect's true name is and
how many aliases he used, said Jack Marshall, chief trial deputy district
attorney for Santa Clara County. For now, the defendant will be referred to as
Israel Quintana Torres because that was the name he initially gave, but Marshall
said prosecutors may amend the complaint to change the defendant's name or
attach nicknames.

In the other case pending against Galvan, he is accused of violating probation
imposed as a result of a traffic conviction. That case is filed under "Julian
Maldonado Galvan" but has a notation "true name: Israel Quintana Torres." It is
being combined with the rape cases.

The rape suspect's attorney, Yolanda Trevino of the public defender's office,
would not comment on the case or her client's identity, nor permit him to be
interviewed.

Lawyer contacted

The real Quintana Torres, a Pinkerton security guard who is subject tobackground
checks to keep his job, panicked when he heard the news of the arrest. He
contacted a lawyer, who called the Mercury News.

"I just wonder if this will affect me in my job some way," he said. "I don't
want people to think I'm a criminal."

Pinkerton spokesman Mark Leaf said Quintana Torres is a mild-mannered employee
who is probably the victim of identification fraud. Leaf said Pinkerton will
take no action against Quintana Torres and hopes to help him clear his name.

Edwards, the San Jose police spokesman, said that without more information he
could not tell whether Quintana Torres had reported his papers missing or what
happened in the traffic accidents he referred to.

But given that Quintana Torres contended he lost his birth certificate in 1988,
Edwards said he is skeptical that the sexual assault suspect obtained it years
later. The sexual assault suspect is thought to have been in the country for
only the past three years.

Spreading fast

Identity fraud is one of the fastest-growing crimes in the United States,
according to several organizations that have studied the issue. The California
Public Interest Research Group estimates there are 121,000 victims a year.
Credit reporting company Trans Union says its "true name fraud" cases are
increasing 200 percent a year.

"It's the biggest nightmare anyone can imagine. Think about someone pretending
to be you and destroying your good name," said Gus May, executive director of
the Center for Law in the Public Interest.

While perpetrators are often trying to get lines of credit for monetary gain,
the ultimate goal for illegal immigrants is getting a document that looks
presentable to an employer, say spokesmen at the Department of Motor Vehicles,
the Social Security Administration and the INS.

"The crime takes different forms. You have people who just want to work and need
good, legal identification, and on the other hand, you have crooks who are
really taking advantage for monetary gain," said Bruce Wong, a DMV spokesman.

Kice explained: "That means some illegal aliens are using fake documents, and in
many cases, it works. We can't expect employers to be able to detect some of
this."

Kice said that in communities with large populations of immigrants, it is common
knowledge where documents can be bought. They are often sold in packets that
include a Social Security number, a driver's license and a "green card," all
with the same name.

Kice and others say identification fraud can take many forms. Quintana Torres'
story differs from those who say their credit records have been destroyed by
someone who assumed their name. But the effect is the same, they explain.

In the case of credit thieves, victims typically have loans or credit cards
obtained with their Social Security number without their knowledge.

The thieves may even use bogus identification when they are arrested, creating a
criminal record or an arrest warrant for an unknowing victim.

Law passed

With the problem growing exponentially, lawmakers last year made identity fraud
a misdemeanor in California. A pending law would allow judges to make the crime
a felony.

"This is everyone's worst nightmare," the DMV's Wong said. "You could lose your
credit, your driver's license. You could even be arrested for what someone else
did. It's pretty scary. It's something we need to work on."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IDENTITY TIPS
HOW TO PREVENT IDENTITY FRAUD
* Don't give out your Social Security number unless it's absolutely necessary.
* Shred important documents before discarding them.
* Check your credit regularly. Three companies that provide credit information:
Equifax, (800) 685-1111; Experian, (800) 682-7654; and Trans Union, (800)
888-4213.
* Don't use your full name in the telephone book.
* Avoid putting your address and driver's license number on checks if possible.
* Keep your mother's maiden name private. It is often used to prove identity.
WHAT TO DO IN CASE OF IDENTITY FRAUD
* Record all incidents and keep copies of all pertinent documents.
* Contact the three credit reporting companies listed above.
* Alert all of your creditors.
* Report all incidents to police.
Source: Mercury News researchMercury News Staff Writer Raoul Mowatt contributed
to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Quintana Torres
[980527 FR 1A 2]
PHOTO: Galvan
An alleged serial rapist and an undocumented immigrant
[980527 FR 10A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 7, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILINGUAL EDUCATION'S POOR REPUTATION, IMMIGRATION ANXIETY ENSURED 227'S WIN

BYLINE: MICHAEL BAZELEY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 1308 words


It was little more than a week before the election, and Ron Unz, the usually
upbeat and unflappable architect of Proposition 227, was nervous.

An internal tracking poll was pegging support for his anti-bilingual education
initiative at just 54 percent even though months of statewide public opinion
polls had pointed to a big victory. A large chunk of the electorate was still
undecided.

As Tuesday's almost 61 percent vote proved, Unz needn't have worried. Political
observers now say the victory was inevitable given bilingual education's
persistent poor reputation and Californians' anxieties about immigration,
education and the need for a common language.

"This was an issue ripe for the picking," said Jim Shultz, director of the
Democracy Center in San Francisco and a Proposition 227 foe.

The "English for the Children" initiative posed a simple educational question:
Should schools be allowed to teach students in their home language -- most
frequently Spanish -- until they become proficient in English?

But the issue immediately became bound up in larger issues of language and
concerns that immigrants in general are not learning English and assimilating
quickly enough.

"Things having to do with language evoke an emotional response that stems from
fears and concerns that are hard to pin down," said Donna Christian, director of
the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, D.C. "It evokes all our fears
about immigrants not learning English. . . . For some it's xenophobia, for
others racism. It all just gets loaded onto language and language differences."

Unz tried to avoid the divisive racial politics that marked earlier debates over
propositions 187 and 209, which sought to cut aid to illegal immigrants and
ended race and gender preferences in public contracts and education. He
aggressively courted the Latino vote and refused to let critics of immigration
be associated with his campaign.

To some extent he was successful, said Gregory Rodriguez, a media commentator
and Pepperdine University research fellow.

"I think this debate was quite different (from 187)," Rodriguez said.
"Republicans were reluctant to rush headlong into racist politics, and Latino
legislators were less likely to label this (initiative) racism."

In the end, though, the initiative appealed to California's largely white and
conservative electorate, Shultz contended. The measure won with large margins
among every ethnic group but Hispanics, who voted nearly 2-to-1 against it,
according to a CNN-Los Angeles Times exit poll.

Concerns about immigrants' lack of English date back to the late 19th century,
said Stanford University sociolinguist Shirley Brice Heath. Americans became
increasingly less tolerant of immigrants, such as the Germans, who brought their
own languages and institutions with them to their new homeland and did not
become literate in the common language.

"People began to worry about the functional difficulties of them not speaking
English," said Heath, author of "Language in the U.S.A." "There was a strong
sense that you had to make people good, and to do that, you had to make them
speak English."

The hostility toward non-English-speakers accelerated during the first and
second world wars, when national unity became more important in the face of an
outside enemy, she said, and continues today.

Given that history, it's not surprising that bilingual education, created by
federal law three decades ago, has long rested on shaky political ground. When
voters declared English the official language of California with Proposition 63
in 1986, supporters said they also wanted to abolish bilingual education.

Less than a year later, then-Gov. George Deukmejian allowed California's
bilingual education law to expire, although state education officials continued
to enforce its intent. Since then, bilingual instruction has comeunder periodic
attacks, including a hard-hitting 1993 report by the Little Hoover Commission.

Name part of the problem

Harry Pachon, director of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute in Claremont said
one of the problems is that "bilingual education" was saddled with an
inappropriate name that "didn't take people to the idea it was about teaching
people English."

Educators may have compounded the confusion by selling bilingual education as a
cultural pride issue, Christian said.

"The civil rights movement opened a lot of things that made people nervous,"
Christian said. "The notion of pride in your background makes people nervous."

That anxiety was reinforced by the anecdotal evidence -- exploited relentlessly
by Unz and other critics and repeated by the media -- that some bilingual
classes failed to educate students or make them fluent in English.

In his campaign, Unz pointed to the relatively high Latino dropout rate as
evidence of bilingual education's failure -- even though only 30 percent of the
students who speak little or no English were placed in bilingual classes. But
there were also stories about Latino students reaching high school unable to
read or write English, or English-speaking children getting placed in bilingual
classes simply because of their Spanish surnames.

"From everything I read, the system wasn't working," an unidentified middle-aged
male voter said as he left a San Jose voting booth Tuesday. "I want a system
that works for the kids, and I'm not convinced the current system is working."

Supporters of bilingual education could have quelled this criticism by
acknowledging those weaknesses and reforming the system, Rodriguez argues.

Instead, school administrators often dismissed criticism of their bilingual
programs and ignored the problems, he said. And Latino lawmakers and special
interest groups repeatedly blocked reform legislation, only producing a watered
down bilingual education bill after it became clear Proposition 227 might win.

"They were so intent on saving these controversial programs, they never took the
time to reform it," Rodriguez said. "If you want to reform a program, then just
reform the damn thing."

Support began early

By the time Unz began collecting signatures for his "English for the Children"
campaign last July, public sentiment was already strongly in its favor. In one
of the first polls on the initiative, 80 percent of the electorate approved of
it.

Although his staff was minuscule, Unz mounted an aggressive and sophisticated
public relations campaign, telling the media and voters a story about immigrant
parents in Los Angeles who had to boycott a public school just to get their
children educated in English.

Shultz, author of the "The Initiative Cookbook," is sharply critical of the
opposition's response. Opponents -- backed by the California Association for
Bilingual Education and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund --
presented an unfocused, "jargon-laden" message driven by focus groups that never
moved voters emotionally, he said.

"You didn't hear from the people who had benefited from bilingual education," he
said. "You heard from advocates, and groups like MALDEF and PR people or school
administrators. It played right into Unz's characterization of a bilingual
education bureaucracy out of control."

Sacramento political consultant Richie Ross, the architect of the opposition
campaign, did not return phone calls. But the campaign's spokeswoman, Holli
Thier, on election night said that Unz began with a big advantage that was hard
to overcome.

"I think our message got out," she said. "But his got out much earlier."

If there is an irony, Heath said, it's that the effect of Proposition 227's
victory may be the opposite of its intent.

"The outcomes people predict will not be there at all," Heath said. ". .. Now
there will be a backlash. Now people will say, 'I want to keep my language.' "

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: PROPOSITION 227
RELATED STORY: page 1A

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 11, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASIAN STUDENTS GRANTED RELIEF ON WORK RULES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 193 words


Responding to the Asian economic crisis, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service on Wednesday relaxed guidelines to allow U.S. college students from five
hard-hit nations to work longer hours as they study in the United States. The
INS unveiled a special relief program to assist an estimated 80,000 students
from Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand who are
enrolled in U.S. colleges and universities.

With Asian currency values plummeting, the INS noted in a statement, many
students have found themselves facing "severe economic hardship" as their
financial support from home has shrunk. All affected are holders of "F-1"
student visas, which allow foreign nationals to attend school here but limit how
much they can work while in the United States.

In general, such visa holders are restricted to 20 hours of work weeklywhile
school is in session. Under the new regimen, affected students will be able to
work more than 20 hours weekly, on or off campus. In addition, the INS is
lifting its requirement that students must be in the United States for one full
academic year before seeking off-campus employment.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 12, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE BATTLE OVER BILINGUALISM STILL CONTINUES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1297 words


PROPOSITION 227 can be considered the little sister of Proposition 187. In that
initiative, Californians voted to deny any education to undocumented immigrant
children, so it should come as no surprise that they would want to deny primary
language support to those struggling to learn English.

Having walked many precincts to defeat 227, I can say from personal experience
that almost every person I talked to who was planning to vote "yes" expressed
some form of anti-immigrant sentiment. Just as medical professionals had an
ethical responsibility to challenge 187, which would have denied medical care to
many immigrants, so it is our duty as educators to fight the implementation of
227.

While voters responded to misinformation and sound bites, we need to base our
actions on what research shows is best for these children. Check the research,
folks, and you will find there is no support for this untested theory we are
about to force on the children of California. How can teachers be held
accountable for learning when we are held hostage by people carrying out a
political agenda?

-- Gayle Adams
San Jose
WHAT'S the fuss?

Learning a language well enough to keep up with your fellow students takes three
to six months of immersion. The younger you start, the quicker and easier you
learn. Forcing kids into bilingual classes only puts off the final realization
that you need English to reach for the brass ring in California.

Frankly, you do need English to move up; there are no job opportunities near the
top that allow English as a second language. Personally, I have been immersed
three times and before I turned 10 I learned to speak French, English, Spanish
and Dutch as a native . I failed college Russian because I tried to learn it as
a classroom subject. There was no compelling need to learn.

I suggest we get Proposition 227 out of the courts, and give our kids the
opportunity to get on with it. Who knows, we may discover a vast, untapped pool
of incredibly talented people who already have a second or third language at
home. -- Peter Brown
San Jose
Pick coach carefully

I am responding to your article, 'It's not therapy, it's coaching" (Page 1A,
June 8). I am an executive coach and a licensed family counselor. My private
practice is in Palo Alto.

You will always be better off choosing a licensed professional, trained in
psychology, instead of a self-appointed executive coach, or even a "certified"
coach.

Why? Competence, accountability and confidentiality.

The licensed counselor can handle psychological problems that emerge in the
course of coaching. The license protects the consumer, who can complain to the
licensing board about unprofessional or unethical behavior: e.g., misuse of
information, violating confidentiality.

When searching for an executive coach, do at least three things:

* Ask: Are you a licensed counselor? What is the phone number of your licensing
board? Then, verify the license.

* Ask for a free consultation. When you meet, ask hard questions: How long have
you been in the field? Who are your clientele? What are your references?

* Get a written business agreement.

In the Mercury News article, one coach was quoted as saying he couldn't handle
the woman who came for coaching and ended up crying about her divorce.

The value of an executive coach who is also a licensed counselor is that you
will not be traumatized if psychological issues arise -- and they often do.

We coaches focus on strengths and help professionals perform at their personal
best, but when psychological problems surface is not a good time to look for a
licensed counselor. It's hard enough to find a competent, caring counselor when
you are feeling well. If you have just gone to pieces, the search is tougher.

-- Anne Rawley Saldich
Palo Alto
Missing leaders

THE National Ocean Conference in Monterey this week is conspicuously absent of
Republican leaders, specifically the men who signed into law the federal
protection of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, former President
George Bush and Gov. Pete Wilson. Weren't they invited?

I lived on the Monterey Peninsula from 1989-92 and was part of a cultural
support focusing on the Monterey Bay Marine Sanctuary (formerly referred to as
the California Marine Life Sanctuary). It was a non-partisan effort which was
part of the fun. It is really disappointing that there was no mention or
recognition given (like maybe a speech by the governor). That kind of alienation
is very destructive for environmental concerns. Such a faux pas!

-- Michele Powers
San Jose
Rents just too high

THE San Jose and San Francisco area is perhaps the most beautiful area to live
in all of Northern California. Perhaps that statement is a bit biased since I
live here, but I feel it to be true nonetheless. I am sure I am not alone when,
encountering someone from outside of this area, I hear, "This is such a nice
place to live . . . except for the price of housing."

The question needs to be asked: How much is enough when it comes to rent? Do the
landlords in this area honestly expect us to believe they really need more
money? After all, most of them do not even live here. Or, if they do, owntheir
homes, without the monthly hassle and yearly worry, "Will my rent be increased?"

The time for rent control of the entire Bay Area has come. Landlords must not be
allowed to push people out of their homes to make room for others who are
willing to pay more. So much lip-service is paid to morals and standards, but in
reality, it is the person who is willing to spend the most money who gets the
spot.

Greed seems to be the only constant with the landlords and something needs to be
done about it before it goes any further. The ability to control what goes on in
regards to rent is in the hands of those who are willing to shout the loudest
about it. When the only thing keeping someone from moving here is the price of
housing, I think we all need to sit down and re-evaluate what is going on.

-- Sean Thompson
San Jose
Noisy airport

THE Mercury News has received court approval to get detailed information on
citizens' complaints about aircraft noise related to our San Jose airport (Page
5B, June 6). This is a mixed blessing. As City Attorney Joan Gallo points out,
many people may refrain from using the aircraft noise complaint line (998-0707)
because their names, addresses and phone numbers will become public.

On the other hand, the veterans of the noise complaint line will welcome public
disclosure about their and others' noise complaints. For years, we have received
perfunctory postcard acknowledgment of our phone calls promising their inclusion
in monthly noise reports prepared by the airport staff for City Council. Few
residents know of this report and fewer see it. An even smaller number know of
the quarterly Airport Noise Advisory Committee meetings, held at the airport,
during which the monthly noise reports are "discussed."

Noteworthy in the reports are the number of curfew violations, Mostly their
referrals are "under investigation." To my knowledge, no fines, penalties or
restrictions have ever been levied.

-- Kenneth Hayes
San Jose
Swoon over Sinatra

FRANK Sinatra gave me a thrill.

My girlfriend and I went to see him at the Golden Gate Theater in San Francisco
in 1941. We had seats in the second row center.

Frank came on stage, smiled, sang one song, and I swooned. I had to be taken out
to a room reserved for such purposes. I was a very repressed young lady, so
swooning was out of character for me. Such was his personal magnetism.

I have always loved Frank Sinatra's singing. He strove to be the best singer he
could be. I think he was the best in the world.

-- Jeanne Solen
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 23, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE WORD IN MANY LANGUAGES

BYLINE: SHU SHIN LUH, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 367 words


The historic First Unitarian Church sits at the intersection of a residential
immigrant community and a bustling San Jose business district.

It has not always been easy to bring the two together, but the church's $6
million restoration project might just do the job.

As part of the project, the church's new community meeting room will feature a
specialized system that can simultaneously translate an English speaker's words
into Vietnamese, Mandarin and Spanish. Likewise, it will also translate foreign
languages into English.

The project was initiated almost three years ago when the Unitarian church was
gutted by a six-alarm fire, which caused an estimated $1.5 million in damage.

"It's always been a dream that we can make this service available to the
community," said Rev. Lindi Ramsden, the church's senior minister. "Being
downtown . . . there's really no place where people can come together and build
a community. With so many new immigrant families in the area, it would be great
to offer something like this to the community."

Located across from St. James Park, the church draws a diverse congregation that
includes a large number of Latino and Asian immigrants. The church also holds a
Spanish-language service.

Ervin Barrios, coordinator of the church's Spanish-speaking ministry, said the
new translation system could help break down language barriers -- and help bring
people together.

"There will be no need for separate activities," Barrios said. "People can
socialize together and can enjoy each other."

So far, the system will consist of two translation booths and about 80 headsets.
People with headsets can sit in the pews and listen to the speaker's words
translated and transmitted through radio waves from multilingual experts in the
booths.

The church, Ramsden says, is almost fully restored.

The sanctuary, where the church holds its services, should reopen by Sept. 20,
along with the translation system. A fundraising effort is under way to collect
another $1.5 million to complete the rest of the project, which includes the
community center. Over the past 2 1/2 years, the church has raised about $3
million, Ramsden said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
MAP: MERCURY NEWS
First Unitarian Church
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
San Jose's First Unitarian Church, gutted by fire almost three years ago,
[980623 LO 1B 2]
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN -- MERCURY NEWS
is undergoing a $6 million restoration. Church leaders are taking the
opportunity to install what they hope will be a community-building feature: a
system that can simultaneously translate an English speaker's words into
Vietnamese, Mandarin and Spanish, and translate foreign languages into English.
[980623 LO 1B 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 26, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AUSTRALIAN IS CHARGED FOR CASTING VOTES IN U.S.

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: CINCINNATI


In a country where the majority of eligible voters don't vote in most elections,
an Australian immigrant has learned it can be a crime if you do.

Michael Hull, 42, foreman for an asphalt company, could be sentenced to as long
as 4 1/2 years in prison and deported for illegally voting in three U.S.
elections, officials said Thursday.

He has pleaded no contest to the charges and is scheduled for sentencing July 9.
Prosecutors declined to say whether they would seek the maximum penalties.

Hull, a permanent-resident alien whose wife is a U.S. citizen, said he made an
innocent mistake when he signed a voter-registration form affirming he was a
U.S. citizen when he registered his truck with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles
in early 1996.

Since then he voted in two elections without being challenged until he was
contacted for jury duty last October and authorities noticed that he stated on a
response form that he was not a U.S. citizen.

When that was brought to the attention of the Clermont County Board of
Elections, officials removed him from the voter list before the November 1997
election.

Precinct voting officials allowed him to cast a challenged ballot in that
election, but it was later disallowed by the board of elections.

"We fouled up by ever letting it get that far," County Elections Director Don
Travis told Reuters. "His registration card should have been red-flagged from
the outset."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 2, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

REFUSED ENTRY, 'WAR CRIMINAL' SAYS U.S., JAPAN AVOIDING TRUTH

BYLINE: MICHAEL ZIELENZIGER, Mercury News Tokyo Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: YOKAICHIBA, Japan


When Yoshio Shinozuka boarded a flight from Tokyo to Chicago last week, he was
planning to tell Americans about "the inhuman acts" he helped carry out as a
member of the Japanese Imperial Army's infamous Unit 731, which tried to infect
Chinese civilians with typhus and bubonic plague and conducted biological
experiments on Chinese prisoners of war.

But when Shinozuka, 74, shuffled to the head of the immigration line at O'Hare
Airport and handed over his Japanese passport, U.S. Immigration and
Naturalization Service officers greeted him harshly.

"They scanned my passport on a computer," the 74-year-old, white-haired former
soldier recalled Wednesday. "There was a beep and they took me to another room."
Within hours, he was back on a plane to Tokyo, the first Japanese to be barred
from entering the United States for "crimes against humanity."

In an interview at the Buddhist temple he helps manage, the ex-soldier said the
Justice Department's decision will obstruct efforts to reveal the full extent of
Japanese brutality during World War II -- brutality that official Japan still
denies.

The Justice Department's "watch list," which identifies war criminals barred
from entering the United States, "is a tool to distort and cover up the reality
of what really happened," Shinozuka charged, as he sat on a straw mat on the
floor of the rural temple about 60 miles west of Tokyo.

Deal suspected

He said he suspects that the Japanese and American governments made a deal to
keep him out of America because high-ranking officers in his unit, including
commanding officer Shiro Ishii, were never prosecuted after the war. In previous
years, he said, prominent doctors and politicians who served with Unit 731
entered the United States regularly.

Saburo Ienaga, a professor of Japanese history who has battled with mixed
success to get Japanese high school textbooks to include the facts of the
country's conduct in World War II, said he suspects that the U.S. government
fears Shinozuka's testimony would embarrass American officials.

"The U.S. released members of Unit 731 after the war in order to get the
know-how of biological weapons," Ienaga said. "Even Gen. Ishii was not
prosecuted at the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal. So it is possible that if the U.S.
allows Shinozuka in and lets him speak, he will cause them problems, notbecause
of what he did, but because of what he knows."

Justice Dept. adamant

A Justice Department official, however, said the watch list is to keep war
criminals out of the United States, not to prevent Americans from learning the
truth about Japanese or German war crimes.

"We are adamant that war criminals will not be allowed into the United States,"
said John Russell, a Justice Department official. "There are facilities for them
to send a message into the United States, either through satellite or through
video equipment. There is no need for them to come to the United States."

The Justice Department barred Shinozuka as a result of a 1996 decision to add 16
suspected Japanese war criminals to the list, which already contained names of
more than 60,000 Nazi war criminals. The list was created by an act of Congress
during the 1970s. Last year, 17 more Japanese were added.

Most Japanese on the list are scientists or doctors who were attached to Unit
731. Others are suspected of involvement in the Imperial Army's procurement of
sex slaves -- euphemistically referred to as "comfort women" -- throughout Asia.

But Shinozuka argued that those like himself who want to tell the truth about
war crimes should not be on the watch list. He and 86-year-old Shiro Azuma, a
witness to the Japanese army's brutal 1937 occupation of Nanking, China, had
planned to discuss their wartime activities as part of an exhibit sponsored by
the Cupertino-based Global Alliance for Preserving the History of World War II
in Asia. But Azuma got a severe cold and abandoned his plan to go abroad. The
exhibit will visit four other North American cities before stopping in San
Francisco on July 5-19.

Credibility at stake

Shinozuka said he fears that being barred from the United States will damage his
credibility as a witness for the plaintiffs in a lawsuit filed in Tokyo last
year by 108 Chinese, seeking compensation for damages inflicted by Japanese
germ-warfare attacks in 1940.

Asia scholars estimate that more than 15 million civilians died in China as a
result of barbarism and neglect during the 14-year Japanese occupation that
began with the invasion of Manchuria in 1931.

In 1939, at age 16, Shinozuka enlisted in the Japanese Imperial Army and was
ordered to Harbin, Manchuria. He was assigned to a laboratory where
biological-warfare agents, including cholera, typhus and deadly viruses, were
being mass-produced.

Later, he helped breed fleas that were infected with bubonic plague. He worked
on mass-producing anthrax, typhoid and other deadly germs that the Japanese
sprayed on Chinese civilians from airplanes.

He also has testified to participating in at least five live autopsies, in which
Chinese soldiers were vivisected to see if they had been infected with the
plague. Each organ was methodically excised while a doctor listened to the
patient's heartbeat.

"At the time the war was being fought, I had no idea I was a war criminal, but I
knew I was part of a secret unit," Shinozuka said. "I figured if a person can be
shot with one bullet, what's wrong with using this person's body as an
experiment for developing medical industries? Besides, I had been taught in
school that the emperor is the son of God and that we are different from other
Asians. . . . Whatever orders we received from commanders of Unit 731 we
followed, because they were imperial orders."

After the war, Shinozuka was imprisoned by the Chinese for five years for his
participation in Unit 731. It was while he was in detention that he began to
express remorse.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
A photographic and video exhibit of Japanese wartime atrocities will be on
display in the Navy Library, Avenue B, Treasure Island, July 5-19. The hours are
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sunday through Friday; 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Saturday. The grand
opening will be July 5 at 2 p.m. For public transit and otherinformation, call
(415) 398-7758, or check the Web at http:: www.sjwar.org:

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MICHAEL ZIELENZIGER
Yoshio Shinozuka, 74, stands before a monument donated by 55 Japanese imperial
army veterans to the Chinese as an apology for Japanese actions in World War II.
Shinozuka was a member of the infamous Unit 731, which performed experiments on
Chinese civilians and prisoners of war.
[980702 FR 13A]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 10, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

CHILDREN, SUPPORTERS ASK FOR DISTANT MOTHER'S VISA FATHER DIED IN MARCH

BYLINE: DE TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 772 words


Armed with a two-foot stack of letters of support, four Vietnamese refugee
orphans went to their congresswoman Thursday, hoping that she would help them
reunite with their mother.

Four months after their father died in a car accident, the four children --
including a teen so severely disabled that she requires around-the-clock care --
are still hoping to see their mother, who is stuck in Vietnam because of an
immigration edict.

The four children of Tran Kim Binh, along with a variety of community and
religious leaders -- all wearing yellow ribbons to signify hope for a reunion --
met briefly with Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, urging her to help untangle the
red tape that has barred Binh from coming here.

"This is a very tragic situation," said Nguyen Tai Dam, president of the
Vietnamese-American Community of Northern California. "We hope that something
can be done to help them."

They presented Lofgren with more than 5,000 letters from people throughout the
state urging officials from the Immigration and Naturalization Service to grant
Binh a visa.

"We are going to do our very best to get this fixed," Lofgren said.

Binh wasn't allowed to come to the United States because the U.S. government
doesn't recognize her marriage to her late husband, Suong Nguyen, as valid.

Like many in rural Vietnam, the couple didn't register their union when they wed
in 1975. To many farmers, a marriage license was not needed. Having a religious
ceremony was sufficient proof.

INS officials, however, didn't see it that way. Although they recognized that
the couple was the children's parents, they would not accept the validity of the
marriage.

Nine years ago, Suong fled communist Vietnam by boat with his oldest son, Tuan
Nguyen, and daughter, Loan Nguyen. His wife and their two youngest children were
to join them, but they got stranded.

Suong and his two older children were admitted into the United States in 1993 as
refugees. The younger girls joined their father two years ago. The mother stayed
behind in the Mekong Delta.

The four children were doing well under the care of their father. They thrived
in school. The oldest joined the U.S. Army Reserve.

Then one March morning, Suong was killed when his car struck a parked van in San
Jose. In a blink of misfortune, the children's lives were turned upside down.

The four -- the youngest is 11 -- moved into their aunt's house near downtown
San Jose. Nine people now share a cramped one-bedroom place.

But it is not the living accommodations that concern them. Their only wish, they
said, is to have their mother here.

Many are especially worried for Loan, who has cerebral palsy and severe
scoliosis -- a curvature of the spine caused by years of medical neglect in
Vietnam.

She is attached to a gastrotomy tube to augment her feeding. The 18-year-old
can't speak or use her arms or legs. Her only form of communication is through
facial expressions. Although her intelligence is comparable to that of any
teenager, the 50-pound girl needs help with everything.

Loan took her father's death the hardest. He had taken care of her since age 3,
when she was struck with the disease. Now almost everyone agrees that Loan needs
her mother.

The quickest way to bring the mother here, Lofgren said, would be through a
process called the humanitarian parole, which is granted by the INS at the U.S.
Embassy in Bangkok, but that visa is rarely issued.

Another method is through a special bill passed by Congress, but that might take
up to two years, Lofgren said.

"If necessary, we are going to do a bill," she said. "But it's so late in the
year . . . I would be happy to do it, but I'm just fearful that thereisn't time
to get it past Congress."

The family's plight has touched many.

"I have two children," said Claire Heinzelman, who has been working on behalf of
the family through a support group called Parents Helping Parents. "And if they
were left alone in the world, I'd hope that someone will fight to bring one of
the parents to them."

Parents Helping Parents, an advocacy group for the disabled, has lobbied
officials. Teachers and students at Del Mar High School, where Loan attends
classes, wrote letters. Several wealthy Vietnamese-Americans have pledged
lifelong financial support for Binh if she comes here, guaranteeing that she
will never be on welfare.

The 21-year-old Tuan said he talks to his mom at least twice a week by phone.

"Mother is very anxious," Tuan said. "She wonders why it's taking so long. Every
weekend she stays home waiting for our call. She said that I should take care of
my sisters."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 11, 1998

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 7/11/98, pg. 2A)
* The caption with a photograph of Rep. Zoe Lofgren accepting letters from the
community on behalf of the Nguyen family, which ran inside some local sections
Friday, misspelled the name of Thich Giac Luong.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Tuan Nguyen, 21, holds letters urging that his mother be allowed to emigrate
from Vietnam. Behind him are his sisters, from left to right, Tu Anh, 15, Loan,
18, and Trinh, 11. They hope Rep. Zoe Lofgren can help grant a reunion with
their mother.
[980710 LO 1B 2]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ -- MERCURY NEWS
Thich Giac Luang, left, presents Rep. Zoe Lofgren with letters of support for
the Nguyens while Lucy Ho waits with more letters.
[980710 LO 2B 3]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 NOVEMBER 21, 1997 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA CAP LIMITS HIGH-TECH WORKFORCE INDUSTRY TO PRESS FOR MORE SKILLED WORKERS

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 887 words


At the end of August, a promising Stanford Ph.D. from Asia with expertise in
compound semiconductors was forced to leave the payroll at Hewlett-Packard Co.'s
optoelectronics division in San Jose because the national visa allotment for
skilled foreign workers had run out.

Aside from the personal suffering the engineer had to bear, her company also
suffered: Because she was the only member of her team with the particular skills
for transferring a new technology from R&D to manufacturing, the project she was
working on went into limbo, the company says.

Similar situations throughout Silicon Valley raised a red flag this fall for the
high-tech industry, which is struggling with a critical shortage oftechnology
workers in all categories. The U.S. government issues 65,000 work visas for
skilled foreign workers each year -- a total that for the first time this year
was filled by the end of summer. Industry associations say they intend to push
for new legislation that will increase the yearly visa allotment or eliminate
visa caps altogether.

"We have made this our No. 1 priority," said Susan Marshall, vice president of
information technology services for Information Technology Association of
America, an association of IT companies.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service stopped issuing H-1B visas in late
August, when the allotment for the year ran out. Nationwide hires of foreign
workers came to a sudden halt -- with urgent consequences for industry.

Designed to allow U.S. companies to hire foreign workers with special expertise,
the H-1B visas are used heavily by the high-tech industry to hire highly
specialized engineers, often graduates of U.S. universities with advanced
degrees. The 65,000 limit was placed on H-1B visas in the 1990 immigration
reform bill.

The INS started issuing H-1B visas again this month, the start of the new visa
year. Pent-up demand for visas meant 3,500 applications had already been
processed and were ready to go at the start of the month. That has led to
expectations that the cap next year will be reached even earlier -- possibly as
early as May.

"There's a real concern next year that everyone will anticipate the cap and
every company that can hire early will do that and it will become a
self-fulfilling prophecy," said Mary Dee Beall, government affairs manager for
HP.

High-tech companies say the foreigners they bring in on H-1B visas are often key
technical engineers who develop new technologies that, in turn, spawn more jobs
for U.S. workers.

At Intel Corp., a senior technical marketing engineer, a legal immigrant, was
part of a two-member team that developed Intel's desktop video-conferencing
system, an advance that created 500 new jobs, Intel attorney Coeta Chambers told
a forum in Palo Alto this week. The forum, conducted by U.S. Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich., chairman of the Senate Commerce subcommittee on manufacturing
and competitiveness, was organized by Technology Network -- a coalition of
Silicon Valley companies.

"High-tech companies like Intel competing in the global economy need a global
workforce," Chambers said.

If the cap on visas forces skilled engineers to remain outside the United
States, Chambers warned, companies will follow. "I don't want to make it sound
like a threat but we do need that talent," she said.

The H-1B visa issue comes against a backdrop of acute labor shortages in the
technology industry. Conservative estimates peg current vacancies nationwide in
IT positions at 190,000, according to an ITAA study. At the workforce forum,
Tony Vickers, director of Computer People Inc., cited Bureau of Labor statistics
that IT employment now stands at three times that of the auto industry and 10
times that of the steel industry.

"In the knowledge revolution, skilled people are our basic raw material, just as
iron ore was for the industrial revolution," Vickers said. "This problem . . .
impacts the entire U.S. economy."

The senator suggested that the next step would be to hold a formal hearing in
Washington, D.C., to educate legislators on the issue. But he warned listeners
that sentiment on Capitol Hill, if anything, was to "restrict legal immigration
further."

"There's very little support for expanding any category," Abraham said.

Industry spokesmen acknowledge it will be hard to convince legislators to
overturn the visa cap. But companies believe they can be persuasive if they
present the issue as one of U.S. competitiveness.

"What we're interested in is being able to compete in a global economy and the
immigration laws hinder our ability to do that," said Brian Raymond, manager of
domestic programs for the American Electronics Association. "This is one part of
the competitive puzzle that needs to be fixed."

The AEA board, which met in September in San Jose, also voted to make the H-1B
visa one of its top priorities for the coming year, Raymond said.

When the INS began issuing visas again in November, the HP worker in
optoelectronics finally was able to return to work. But her absence forced a
delay in the transfer of the technology her team had worked on and tied up
R&Dfunds.

"In fact, even now we are still trying to recover from problems that could have
been resolved sooner," said Jeff Rogers, the team's process engineering manager.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Friday Focus: Management

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 26, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA CAP FOES GAIN ALLY FEINSTEIN: SENATOR SAYS TECH INDUSTRY MUST, IN TURN,
BOOST PUBLIC EDUCATION.

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 862 words


Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., added her support Wednesday to efforts to raise
the cap on visas for skilled foreign workers, a restriction that industry
leaders say threatens U.S. competitiveness in high technology.

Feinstein, speaking at a packed Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the
high-tech worker shortage, added, however, that she wants industry to
"participate in the renewal of public education in the United States."

"The point I want to make here -- coming from the largest state and as someone
who is really concerned about this -- is that, in exchange for a vote that some
of us are prepared to give to extend this quota, that there would be something
coming back in terms of extraordinary help to see that the schools in our nation
are greatly improved, so that one day, these companies won't have to rely on
foreign nationals, but can, with pride, find, recruit, hire and promote citizens
of the United States of America," Feinstein said in a statement.

Industry executives, including T.J. Rodgers, chief executive of Cypress
Semiconductor Corp., and Kenneth Alvares, vice president of human resources for
Sun Microsystems Inc., testified that their companies were spending millions on
job training, education and recruitment but still had thousands of positions in
engineering and programming they were unable to fill because of the worker
shortage. There are currently 346,000 vacancies in the information technology
industry, according to a recent study by the Information Technology Association
of America.

If visa restrictions are not eased, executives told the senators, the shortage
could seriously erode the continued growth of U.S. high-tech companies.

"We have strong feelings about the value provided by immigrant engineers -- and
about the factually hollow, emotion-driven claims of those who insist the U.S.
semiconductor industry can retain its current global leadership without an
adequate supply of high-quality engineers, including immigrants," Rodgers said
in a statement. "Foreign skilled workers do not take jobs from domestic workers,
but, in fact, create additional jobs."

Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., who presided over the hearing, is drafting
legislation that will raise the cap, although by how much has not yet been
determined, according to Dan Senor, spokesman for Abraham.

Current laws allow U.S. companies to bring in skilled foreign workers on H-1B
visas, with a limit of 65,000 per year for all industries, for a period of up to
six years. Last year for the first time, the visa cap was reached in early
September, one month before the end of the federal fiscal year. This fiscal
year, 30,000 H-1B visas were issued by mid-January and officials and industry
executives expect the visa ceiling to be reached possibly as early as May.

Quick resolution

"The senator wants to get this resolved as soon as possible, certainly before
May," Senor said.

In opening remarks at the hearing, Abraham called the shortage of high-tech
workers a serious threat to an industry "central to our economic well-being." If
no action is taken on raising the cap on H-1B visas, the resulting backlog
"would be disastrous," he said.

Abraham added that he also supports substantially increasing fines for abuses of
the H-1B visas.

Not everyone at the hearing, however, spoke in favor of increasing H-1B visas.

A Department of Labor official told the committee that the administration's top
priority is to improve the U.S. workforce. The White House has not decided
whether to support an increase in the cap.

John R. Reinert, president of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-USA, told the committee that claims of a worker shortage were inflated
and urged Congress not to "resort to increasing immigration as aquick fix for
growing workforce demand."

Masking the numbers

Reinert acknowledged, under questioning, that the unemployment rate for
electrical engineers is less than 1 percent. IEEE, however, believes the
unemployment figure masks a number of engineers who have been forced to retire
early or who are underemployed, said Chris Currie, an IEEE spokesman.

There was also discussion at the hearing about other possible restrictions,
including shortening the duration of H-1B visas to two or three years instead of
six years, restrictions on layoffs, or perhaps a certification process to ensure
that companies try to hire American workers first. But such provisions would
only add obstacles to industry's ability to compete, said Steven Leven, senior
vice president of Texas Instruments Inc., who also testified at the hearing.

"I felt very positive about the hearing," Leven said afterward. "I was really
encouraged by the (committee's) understanding of the situation."

In the House of Representatives, Rep. Jim Moran, D-Va., on Wednesday introduced
a series of bills aimed at addressing the high-tech worker shortage. In addition
to tax breaks and bonuses for job-training, Moran's proposed legislation would
give foreign workers with high-tech skills priority in the immigration process.
However, Moran's proposals stop short of supporting an increase in the H-1B visa
cap.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
Feinstein
[980226 BU 1C 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                February 28, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH INDUSTRY SHOULD LOOK WITHIN TO FILL SHORTAGE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 767 words


THE Information Technology Association of America's claim of a shortage of
qualified and employable workers in the United States (Opinion, Feb. 25) cannot
be empirically substantiated. With short product-release life cycles,
corporations have no time for on-the-job training. Foreign workers hired under
the H-1B visa program are an inexpensive, short-term fix that does not address
long-term issues.

High-tech corporations should give something back to the workforce which has
been displaced by the very technology that the companies produce. If the ITAA
claims are true, then they should contribute to a long-term solution which does
not burden taxpayers or the educational system. Paying an additional educational
fee for each H-1B visa issued is a good start. This is an act of good faith, in
order to give something back to the nation, workforce and economy that has made
the corporations' existence possible.

The fee could be used for a program called TRIPP -- Technical Retraining,
Investment and Placement Program. Sponsor employers would pay a $50,000
educational fee per year for each H-1B visa issued up to the current nationwide
limit of 65,000 per year. Beyond that limit, an employer would have to pay a
$100,000 educational fee H-1B visa. The educational fee is applied toward the
re-education and placement of disenfranchised and unemployed workers into the
high-tech industry. Sponsor employers also receive a rebate of $25,000 from the
program funding pool when placing a worker from the re-employment pool for at
least one year.

This program would benefit all parties. The high-tech companies would profit by
having a competitive advantage from the immediate placement of H-1B visa
employees. A labor pool of newly trained employees would be created, and the
industry will never face another "shortage." High-tech firms will have incentive
through the rebate program to cease discriminatory hiring practices and hire out
of the TRIPP graduate pool. The competitive advantage and additional profits
gained from the immediate infusion of H-1B visa employees would more than offset
the sponsor companies' additional costs from the educational fee.

Congress should legislate this program as soon as possible.

-- C. Giovanni Enrico
San Carlos
ABOUT five years ago, I was in the midst of a career change. After almost 20
years as a nuclear engineer, I realized that it was time to find a new career
with a future. I condensed a pretty successful technical and management career
into a two-page resume, carefully written to eliminate "nuke-speak" and --
hopefully -- pique the interest of the high-tech hiring managers. After two
years and several hundred resumes, I had a small stack of those "we will keep
your resume on file" cards and a grand total of three interviews.

Based on my experiences, and those of others I knew in the same situation, I
offer the following criticisms of the high-tech hiring process;

* Don't rely so much on "keywords" in resumes. There's a lot of experience out
there that may be applicable to your business. Other industries may use
different jargon for the same -- or a similar -- skill set.

* Make age discrimination a hanging offense. One of my interviews died the
moment I met the interviewer. A look of dismay crossed his 30-something face
when he saw my 40-something self. We went through the motions, but the
conclusion was forgone. His experience was common among contemporaries, as well.

* Hire people, not resumes.

Much of the high-tech industry's problem results from a desire to have highly
qualified people drop into their lap like a piece of ripe fruit falling from a
tree. My experience in hiring suggests that it's more like mining for diamonds.
You have to do a lot of sifting and screening, but they're in thereif you're
willing to look.

As for me, I finally found a job with a small telecommunications company. The
interview consisted of finding those things I could do that would be of
immediate benefit (a couple), future benefit (a few more), and my willingness to
learn something new (a helluva lot). I started at the bottom and within a few
months had been promoted three times. Today, I'm deeply involved in some
fascinating projects and am enjoying my new career as much as I did the old one.

I like to think that I could have done the same thing in the high-tech industry
if someone would have been willing to look beyond the resume. The industry can
solve many of its personnel problems if it stops wandering around the orchard
and starts mining for diamonds.

-- J.D. Doyel
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   March 2, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOUBLE BOOST FOR TECH JOB POOL GRANTS, VISAS: BILL RAISES CAP ON FOREIGN
WORKERS, PROVIDES U.S. SCHOLARSHIPS.

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 764 words


Legislation aimed at easing the labor shortage in high technology will propose
raising the cap on visas for skilled foreign workers by approximately 25,000 in
the current fiscal year, according to a Senate aide.

The bill, which will be introduced today by Senate sponsor Spencer Abraham,
R-Mich., offers a two-pronged approach to a problem that industry leaders say is
so severe it threatens the U.S. lead in high technology. It makes it more
possible for companies to bring in skilled foreign workers on H-1B visas, each
for up to six years. But the bill would also offer 20,000 college scholarships
for low-income U.S. students in the fields of mathematics, engineering and
computer science to help build the American workforce in information technology,
said a Senate aide, who asked not to be named.

Currently, there is a 65,000 limit on visas in the H-1B category for all
industries. High-tech firms were left scrambling last year, for the first time,
when the cap was reached in early September, one month before the end of the
federal fiscal year, which runs from Oct. 1 to Sept. 30. This year, 30,000 H-1B
visas were issued by mid-January, and industry executives expect the visa
ceiling to be reached possibly as early as May.

Prospects for speedy passage of the American Competitiveness Bill -- as
Abraham's legislation is called -- are good, according to Senate and industry
sources. But it is likely to encounter resistance from labor and
anti-immigration groups, who say industry exaggerates the shortage in order to
use the H-1B visas to hire cheap foreign labor.

Commerce Secretary William Daley said in January that the White House would not
support an increase in the visa cap. But President Clinton in a private session
with high-tech industry executives last week in San Francisco assured them he
understood their concern and said his administration is reviewing its position
on the issue, according to one participant.

Silicon Valley affected

Locally, Silicon Valley firms compete furiously to recruit and retain high-tech
workers and reject the notion that they pay foreign workers at lower salaries.
In addition to hiring engineers and programmers in all information technology
(IT) fields, high-tech companies are particularly anxious to hire
often-brilliant Ph.D. graduates from U.S. universities with skills in
leading-edge technology -- more than half of whom are foreign nationals. Without
access to that talent, industry leaders say, those students will return abroad
and produce the next generation of innovations for U.S. competitors.

There are 346,000 vacancies in core fields in information technology in
theUnited States, according to a recent study by the Information Technology
Association of America. The Department of Commerce in January estimated that
high technology in the United States would create 1.3 million new jobs during
the next decade at the same time that the number of computer science graduates
is expected to decrease.

Abraham's bill would raise the existing limit through several strategies. To
avoid the kind of disruption that occurred last year, the cap for the current
fiscal year would be set at twice the number of visas issued during the first
six months of the current fiscal year -- that is, by March 31. Expectations are
that by that date the number will have grown to 45,000. Doubling that figure
would set a new cap of 90,000, or 25,000 more than the current limit of 65,000.

More visas in future years

In other provisions of the Abraham bill, physical therapists and other health
workers, who currently are included in the H-1B category, would be placed into a
new, separate category with 10,000 slots. The move would, in effect, free up an
additional 10,000 spaces for the H-1B visas. In future years, if the 90,000 cap
is not enough, up to 25,000 extra visas could be borrowed from unused slots in
the H-2B category, which allows companies to hire seasonal non-agricultural
foreign workers.

In addition to offering immediate relief in the high-tech labor shortage, the
bill attempts to address long-term issues by offering more educational and
training opportunities in relevant fields. The bill would authorize $50 million
in federal funds for the state student incentive grant program, which is matched
dollar for dollar by state funds. That would create a $100 million pot for new
college scholarships targeted at low-income U.S. students in the fields of math,
engineering and computer science.

A companion bill in the House will be sponsored by Rep. David Dreier, R-Covina.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BILL HIGHLIGHTS
The American Competitiveness Bill, to be introduced today by Sen. Spencer
Abraham, R-Mich., includes the following:
* For current fiscal year, doubles the number of H-1B visas issued by March 31
(approximate total of 90,000, up from 65,000).
* Removes physical therapists and other health workers from the H-1B visa
category, freeing up roughly another 10,000 slots.
* After 1998, provides for H-1B category to borrow up to 25,000 additional visas
from unused slots in the H-2B category for seasonal non-agricultural workers.
* Provides 20,000 college scholarships for low-income U.S. students in the
fields of mathematics, engineering and computer science from a $100 million
fund.
* Earmarks $10 million to retrain unemployed workers for information technology
fields.
Source: U.S. Senate

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  March 23, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP PRESSURES FOR TECH VISA BOOST

BYLINE: Reported by Miranda Ewell, James J. Mitchell, Tom Quinlan and, Mercury
News Wire Services.

SECTION: BUSINESS MONDAY; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 79 words


Spotting political opportunity, congressional Republicans are bringing strong
pressure on the White House to increase visas for skilled foreign high-tech
workers. Congressman David Dreier, R-Covina, will push the wavering White House
this week to help devise an expansion of the so-called H-1B visa program. If
President Clinton and the Democrats don't come through, perhaps Silicon Valley's
business leaders will re-examine who their friends really are, GOP advisers say.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Starting Up: News And Ideas On The Horizon

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   April 5, 1998 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WORKER SHORTAGE FACT OR FICTION? DATA IS INCONCLUSIVE AND GIVEN TO POLITICAL
INTERPRETATION

BYLINE: MIRANDA EWELL, MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1553 words


GE discrimination! Unexpectedly high unemployment rates! Severely declining
graduation rates! Startling career-migration statistics!

Proponents and critics alike have been hurling dueling datapoints like these
with feverish abandon to prove opposing viewpoints in the increasingly heated
controversy over the high-tech worker shortage.

But rather than bringing the issue into focus, the data, under scrutiny, recedes
rapidly in a fog of ambiguity. Some statistics even evaporate.

High-tech companies contend they are desperately seeking people to hire. They
want the government to raise the ceiling on visas for skilled foreign workers.
Opponents say the high-tech industry just wants to hire cheap, foreign labor to
do jobs Americans need. Older U.S. programmers, they charge, are ignored because
they cost more.

On Thursday, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 12-6 to raise the ceiling on
visas for skilled foreign workers to 90,000 from 65,000, with more leeway in the
future. As the political rhetoric grows louder, it becomes ever harder to
discern the real dimensions of the problem.

"This issue is complex and it isn't easily sorted out without careful study,"
says Michael Rappa, a government consultant who is looking at education and
training issues in the information technology field.

No one has quarreled seriously with predictions that the number of high-tech
jobs will grow rapidly over the next decade -- 1.3 million new jobs by 2006,
according to a recent Commerce Department estimate. Instead, the debate centers
on supply. There is not, however, a definitive figure for the pool of U.S.
workers available for the information technology field.

And some crucial numbers simply aren't available. No one knows, for example, the
number of H-1B visas held by high-tech workers. Currently, the government issues
a maximum of 65,000 such visas annually for companies from all industries to
bring skilled foreigners to work in the United States for up to six years.
Neither the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which approves the H-1B
petitions, nor the State Department bureau that issues the visas keeps track of
how many are for workers in which fields. And the Department of Labor keeps
track only of potential petitions, which prove a high level of demand, but
nothing about how the visas are allocated: According to those records for 1997,
there were 177,034 labor certifications for computer occupation petitions --
clearly more than the 65,000 H-1B slots available for all industries that year.

Anecdotal evidence and statistical snapshots abound.

William Archey, chief executive of the American Electronics Association, says
the AEA'S 17 regional councils nationwide unanimously report that their
companies identified the worker shortage as their most pressing problem. A huge
proportion of graduate students at U.S. universities in computer science and
engineering -- perhaps as much as one-third in recent years -- are foreign
nationals, people that the high-tech companies say they need to hire to maintain
U.S. technological pre-eminence. Hewlett-Packard Co., Sun Microsystems Inc.,
Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp. say they aren't trying to save money by hiring
from abroad and that filing for visas takes several months.

At the same time, there is no dearth of older U.S. programmers claiming they
can't even get interviewed for jobs they feel qualified to do. Surveys by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. in the last few years
found 11 percent to 12 percent of members had been asked to retire early and 19
percent say they had suffered age-discrimination. Foreign workers under 30 years
old in the high-tech industry in Silicon Valley were paid roughly 20 percent
less than their U.S. counterparts, according to an analysis of 1990 census data
by Norman Matloff, a professor of computer science at the University of
California, Davis.

In the absence of definitive official data, both sides have tried to bolster
their arguments by marshalling other numbers they believe are persuasive.

* Engineers over 50 are spurned. Those who contend there is no labor shortage
point to a widely circulated citation of the unemployment rate for people over
50 years old in the computing industry as evidence of rampant discrimination
against older computer workers. The rate: an astonishing 17 percent.

The figure first appeared in Computerworld on Jan. 12 and has been repeated by
Matloff and others, such as U.S. News and World Report. But the statistic does
not square with data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Jobless rates

The unemployment rate in 1997 for mathematicians and computer scientists over
the age of 55 was 4.9 percent, the same as the unemployment rate for all U.S.
workers in 1997, says Labor Bureau economist Susan Cohany. For all engineers
over 55, the unemployment rate was 3.4 percent, a tad higher than the 3 percent
for all U.S. workers over 55 years old, she says.

Computerworld says its 1997 numbers came from the Census Bureau, but that agency
says it collected that kind of information only as part of the 1990 census.

* Students shun the sciences. Industry representatives cite a declineof more
than 40 percent in bachelor's degrees awarded in computer science between 1985
and 1995. The decrease demonstrates an alarming gap between high-tech's growing
demand and shrinking supply, they say.

While such data does speak to the pipeline of graduates leading up to the
mid-1990s, it doesn't take into account evidence that the decade-long trend may
be rapidly reversing, with enrollments in computer science and engineering at
U.S. and Canadian research universities up about 40 percent for the past two
years running, according to the Computing Research Association's annual Taulbee
Survey.
* Programmers abandon computing. Matloff and others who argue that the industry
discriminates against older programmers point to statistics that indicate a
majority of programmers can't find work in their field 20 years after
graduation.

"Five years after finishing college, about 60 percent of computer science
graduates are working as programmers; at 15 years the figure drops to 34
percent, and at 20 years -- when most are still only age 42 or so -- it is down
to 19 percent," Matloff writes in his online treatise "Debunking the Myth of a
Desperate Software Labor Shortage."

But Dr. Linda E. Parker, Director at the Engineering Education and Centers
Division for the National Science Foundation, which compiles data in these
fields, notes that those figures may have more to do with occupational
categories than any real migration away from programming work.

"Programming is far more ubiquitous in many different job classifications,"
Parker says. "But the people in those jobs don't necessarily label their
occupations as programmers. It's often a job activity, not necessarily a job
classification. It doesn't mean they're no longer doing programming work."

Parker uses the example of someone trained in computer science who programs
tests for seismology readings at offshore oil platforms. That worker is more
likely to check the occupational code for petroleum engineer, she says.

"Programming is kind of an old-fashioned occupational title," Parker says.

Need for senior managers

The single largest occupation group for those educated as engineers but no
longer working as engineers, for example, is senior manager, Parker notes. They
would no longer show up as engineers but it would be incorrect to conclude they
had been driven from the field, she says.

* Non-scientists enter engineering. Those opposed to lifting the quota on visas
argue that the supply-demand balance is evening out by itself as more people
enter engineering from other fields.

Both the General Accounting Office and the IEEE cite NSF figures showing that
roughly one-quarter of those working as computer scientists, systems analysts
and programmers have degrees in those exact fields. That suggests there has been
a vast migration in the marketplace from other fields to the computer industry.

But Parker says those numbers are too narrowly construed. Only 25 percent of
those who marked their occupations as computer/information sciences listed such
a degree in the NSF's Science and Engineering Statistics System for 1995 jobs.
But including those who reported degrees in engineering and other sciences
brings the total to 58 percent.

A separate category for computer programmers similarly indicates 37 percent
listing a degree in computer/information sciences. But, again, adding in all
those with engineering or science degrees of one kind or another brings the
total to 83 percent.

Rather than migration into engineering, the explanation may lie in the fact that
academic programs have not yet caught up with the real occupations in the
fast-growing computer industry, Parker says. There is also not a one-to-one
correspondence between occupational categories and educational ones.

"Computer engineering has been growing rapidly as an occupational area but few
people have degrees in this because academic programs have not caught up,"
Parker says. "So a lot of people without degrees in their occupational areas. .
. doesn't mean they didn't have the training needed to work in that field."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 15, 1998 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WESTERN FIRMS PRIMED TO PULL EMPLOYEES OUT

BYLINE: MERCURY NEWS WIRE SERVICES

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 26A

LENGTH: 230 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia


Scores of Western bankers, oil-company workers and other expatriates were
preparing to leave Indonesia today after three days of rioting, fires and
looting in Jakarta.

The political and social unrest -- the worst in President Suharto's 32-year
reign -- has created a "very dicey" situation in which the United States can no
longer guarantee the safety of its citizens, Stanley Roth, U.S. assistant
secretary of state for the Asia-Pacific region, said Thursday. The State
Department warned U.S. citizens against "non-essential travel" to Indonesia.

Roth said that 2,000 to 3,000 U.S. citizens are in the Jakarta area, and a total
of 11,000 to 12,000 are in Indonesia.

San Francisco-based BankAmerica Corp., American Express Co. and E.I. DuPont de
Nemours and Co.'s subsidiary, Conoco, said Thursday that they had begun moving
foreign employees out of the country.

Oil giant Atlantic Richfield Co. said it planned to airlift 320 of its 2,500
foreign workers and their families from Jakarta, Indonesia's capital, to
Singapore. But two other California-based oil companies, Unocal Corp. and
Chevron Corp., were keeping workers in place for now.

Citicorp closed six offices in Indonesia for the "safety of its staff and
customers," a U.S. official said.

Every seat on commercial flights out of Jakarta is booked already, said Kenneth
Bacon, a Pentagon official.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: pages 1A and 25A

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 19, 1998 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE VOTES VISA BOOST HIGH-TECH PRIORITY: ANOTHER BILL IS DUE FOR HEARING
TODAY IN HOUSE COMMITTEE.

BYLINE: JIM PUZZANGHERA, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 1189 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate on Monday heeded the pleas of Silicon Valley's high-tech companies
and overwhelmingly approved legislation temporarily opening America's borders to
more skilled foreign workers.

The legislation -- one of the technology community's top priorities in
Washington this year -- would temporarily increase the number of special visas
used to bring high-tech and other skilled workers in from abroad. Those
so-called H-1B visas are now limited to 65,000 a year, a total that has already
been reached for the 1997 federal fiscal year, five months before it's over.

The legislation, which passed by a vote of 78-20 after hours of debate, would
increase the annual cap to 95,000 for the next five years, beginning this fiscal
year. It also includes a provision that could result in the transfer of another
20,000 temporary visas to the H-1B category, as well as heavier penalties for
companies that abuse the H-1B system.

A bill in the House of Representatives that also would expand the H-1B visa
program, but for only three years, is scheduled for a committee hearing today .
That bill, sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, includes several key
provisions designed to protect American workers in high-tech fields such as
engineering and computer science from layoffs and ensure that they get first
crack at filling such vacancies.

The Senate on Monday failed to act on two amendments by Sen. Edward Kennedy,
D-Mass., that would have added similar provisions. It did unanimously approve an
amendment by Kennedy that would protect the jobs of foreign workers here who
file complaints about the visa program.

The Clinton administration has threatened to veto any expansion of the visa
program that does not include such protections of American workers.

The Senate's decision to table the two provisions means the Senate and House,
should it pass the measure, will have to craft a compromise acceptable to the
White House.

Silicon Valley executives have argued that provisions to protect American
workers look fine on the surface but would be difficult and constraining in
practice. Hiring managers on one project or in one part of the country, for
example, often don't know what other hiring managers are doing, making it
difficult for a company to attest that it has not laid off an American somewhere
in a similar position, said Mary Dee Beall, government affairs manager for
Hewlett-Packard Co.

"Both of these things sound good, but in the H-1B program we don't always
recruit U.S. workers," she said. "Sometimes we might want to bring in an HP
worker from another country. . . Sometimes we're reaching for the best in the
world."

Both sides in the debate agree that the visa program needs to be expanded to
deal with a shortage in high-tech workers that threatens to slow the economy's
high-tech engine. A recent study estimated there are 340,000 unfilled jobs in
information technology in this country.

"Frankly, we are growing in those areas so fast that our labor force cannot even
keep up with the growth," said Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., sponsor of the
Senate bill. "One need only pick up the want ads of a newspaper or trade journal
. . . and you'll see the spectacular number of jobs available. . . High-tech
jobs going unfilled."

But the debate Monday revolved around one question: What's better for American
workers?

Proponents of the legislation said that ultimately high-tech companies will
create more jobs for Americans by allowing crucial jobs to be filled temporarily
and immediately by foreigners. Opponents said American workers are losing out to
foreigners and a visa system that allows companies to bring in workers who are
beholden to them.

The issue put Republicans and Democrats on different sides from where they often
stand on immigration issues. It was Republicans who urged Monday that more
foreigners be allowed into the country while Democrats charged that Americans
should be given first crack at high-tech jobs.

"I find it difficult to understand . . . What is wrong with American workers!"
Kennedy roared during the nearly six hours of debate on the bill.

Kennedy and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., failed earlier this year in their
attempt to push a more limited expansion of the visa program through the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

"I support the Abraham legislation because I believe that we must makesure that
our high-tech industry has the workers to meet its immediate needs, but I will
also continue to correct what I believe are crucial flaws in the legislation,"
Feinstein said Monday. She said the differences between the House and Senate
versions "well could be worked out."

The Senate legislation would increase the total number of visas and also would
help the high-tech community by emphasizing use of the visas for computer and
engineering workers by limiting one of its other major uses. Starting in 1999,
only 10,000 visas a year could be used to bring in foreign health care workers,
meaning 85,000 visas could be used for high-tech workers. The bill also would
allow the Immigration and Naturalization Service to transfer up to 20,000 other
annual temporary visas to the H-1B program, if they are available.

The Senate legislation allocates $155 million for scholarships to low-income
students to pursue college degrees in math, engineering and computer science to
help fill future high-tech vacancies with American workers.

The bill also increases penalties on companies that abuse the H-1B program.
Fines for bringing in a foreign worker and paying less than the prevailing
salary or the salary a similar American worker is earning in the company will
increase from $1,000 to $5,000. A company that lays off an American worker and
brings in a foreign worker for a lower salary would be fined $25,000 and not be
allowed to use the H-1B program for two years.

But critics -- including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers-United States of America, which represents 220,000 engineers and
computer scientists -- say those protections won't go far enough to prevent
abuses, and don't require companies to try to hire qualified Americans first.
They say foreign workers brought over on H-1B visas are like indentured
servants, working long hours and denied pay increases because they owe their new
life in America to the company that sponsored them. The legislation also does
not provide enough money for training American workers, opponents said.

HP's Beall said high-tech companies will have to be on guard against abuses of
the visa program because the increase in the Senate and House bills are only
temporary. "They kind of have us over the barrel with the temporary increase, so
I think they have plenty of clout to bring us to the table on reform of the
program in the next couple of years," if it's needed, she said.

Kennedy proposed amendments to require companies to attest to having tried to
hire U.S. workers first for specific jobs, and also to prevent companies from
laying off an American worker and replacing that person with a foreign worker on
an H-1B visa at the same salary.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
Sen. Dianne Feinstein: Flaws in legislation must be corrected
[980519 BU 1C 1]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 25, 1998 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LUNGREN BACKS TECH-VISA HIKE GOVERNOR HOPEFUL CALLS RIVAL'S PLAN TO PUT ARM ON
FIRMS 'DUMB'

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 732 words


Attorney General Dan Lungren on Wednesday said he supports making it easier for
Silicon Valley companies to hire foreign workers. He labeled as "dumb" Lt. Gov.
Gray Davis' proposal that companies should have to help train Californians in
exchange for the privilege.

Lungren, the Republican nominee for governor, made his remarks to reporters
following a meeting with directors of the Silicon Valley Manufacturing Group,
where he discussed taxes and education, including his desire to lower to 60
percent -- from the current two-thirds -- the super-majority needed to approve
local school bonds.

The issue of special H-1B visas used to hire skilled workers from abroad --
currently limited to 65,000 a year -- is one of the top priorities for Silicon
Valley companies.

This year's quota has already been reached and, with an estimated 190,000
information technology jobs still vacant nationwide, companies say they cannot
find enough qualified American workers to fill their needs.

The governor of California has no direct control over the federal issue, but
could be an important voice in the debate, now stalled in the House of
Representatives.

Davis, the Democratic nominee, is closely aligned with California's trade
unions, many of which have argued that the call to loosen immigration quotas is
a subterfuge by companies seeking "indentured" foreign workers willing to work
longer hours for less pay.

Nevertheless, Davis said he would temporarily expand the H-1B visa program but
in exchange would require companies to help train workers as part of a long-term
solution.

"I want to liberalize the (Immigration and Naturalization Service) rules to
ensure that California companies are competitive," Davis told reporters last
month in Long Beach, before speaking to a luncheon of Hispanic leaders. "But we
also ought to ask these companies to contribute to the training of California's
students."

He said he would ask companies to set up their own technology academies or give
money to community colleges that train students for high-tech jobs.

Asked for the first time about the issue Wednesday, Lungren said companies had
no such obligation.

"The obligation in response is for society at large to try to educate more of
our own people so that they will qualify (for high-tech jobs), particularly it
seems to me, in the Hispanic community and the African-American community, where
we have not done the job," Lungren said.

"While we do need foreign-born scientists in technical aspects of the high-tech
industry, we ought to do a better job of attracting our own kids there."

He said Davis' insistence that companies should pay for training Americanworkers
is "a typical Gray Davis idea -- he always finds the problem with the citizens."

Lungren said companies are saying they may have to move jobs overseas unless
they have the "opportunity to utilize foreign-born intellectual talent." Davis,
he argued, is "going to penalize you for it by saying there is an entry fee for
that. I think that's dumb.

"He says, 'OK, since we've got you down on the ground and we've got the knee to
your neck, we're going to extract from you a new tax,' " Lungren said.

Davis spokesman Garry South said plenty of companies, especially in the
entertainment industry, are training new workers.

"If you have an open-ended H-1B visa program, where all you do is ratchet up the
number of visas to meet industry's demand, what incentive do you have for
private industry to be involved in training California workers to do the same
job?" South asked.

"You can't give any industry a blank check to bring in highly paid foreign
workers when we have people here who are plenty capable of doing the job if
they're trained properly."

Legislation was approved by the U.S. Senate in May that would increase the
annual cap to 95,000 for the next five years, beginning this fiscal year. The
bill also included a provision that could result in the transfer of another
20,000 temporary visas to the H-1B category, as well as heavier penalties for
companies that abuse the H-1B system.

A bill in the House of Representatives that also would expand the H-1B visa
program, although sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, has been bottled up by
Republicans who don't like provisions they believe place too many restrictions
and demands on companies that take advantage of the program.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
Lungren
[980625 BU 1C 2]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 14, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ALIEN SMUGGLERS GUILTY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Six people linked by prosecutors to Asian organized crime were convicted Friday
of arranging the smuggling of 280 Chinese on boats that landed near Half Moon
Bay and Moss Landing in 1993.

The six were among 23 reputed gang members charged in 1996 with smuggling,
conspiracy and related crimes. All have been convicted or pleaded guilty, except
for one person against whom charges were dismissed, said Assistant U.S. Attorney
Steven Gruel.

Gruel said the passengers, who were packed into the cargo holds of the boats,
paid $27,000 to $30,000 apiece for the trip and were expected to work off the
debt in brothels or other gang-run operations in New York.

All the passengers were captured immediately except for 19 who were found in New
York. Apart from a few who were granted political asylum, all were deported,
Gruel said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JULY 29, 1997 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS CHEER BENEFITS PLAN

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 491 words


Legal immigrants and local and state officials breathed a sighof relief Monday
upon learning that the federal budget deal restores immigrant benefits lopped
off last year.

"It would have been a social and humanistic catastrophe," said Gil Villagran of
the Santa Clara County Social Services Agency.

California's legislative analyst's office had projected that about 200,000
recipients of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) would have lost their federal
benefits. Santa Clara County has nearly 8,000 elderly immigrants on SSI who have
been facing an Oct. 1 cutoff.

SSI gives monthly checks to people with minimal assets who are 65 and older,
blind or disabled.

Under the budget deal announced Monday, all immigrants who were collecting SSI
on Aug. 22, 1996, will keep receiving their monthly checks. That was the date
President Clinton signed the landmark welfare bill that was expected to reduce
federal spending by $54 billion over five years. Of the total savings, 44
percent was to come from the elimination of SSI, food stamps and other welfare
benefits for non-citizen legal immigrants.

Because the Golden State has about 40 percent of the nation's legal immigrants,
state politicians have been protesting to Congress for almost a year.

"While we haven't seen all the details yet, it appears that this is the type of
agreement the governor has been fighting for," said Lisa Kalustian, a
spokeswoman for Gov. Pete Wilson.

"I think Washington wanted to avoid the front-page picture of a 90-year-old,
disabled legal immigrant" out on the street, said Margaret Pena, a lobbyist for
the California Association of Counties.

But the deal was only a partial victory for California welfare officials and
immigrant-advocacy groups.

Immigrants who were not receiving SSI as of Aug. 22, 1996, will have to be
declared "disabled" by the U.S. Social Security Administration to receive a
check, said Angela Kelley, policy director of the National Immigration Forum. No
longer will they be allowed to automatically receive SSI when they reach age 65.

In addition, hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants -- more than 15,000 in
Santa Clara County alone -- will lose food stamps.

Still, anti-immigration groups chastised Congress for being too generous.

"I am sad and outraged that policy-makers caved into pressure from ethnic
activists and welfare advocates despite strong evidence that shows welfare abuse
among legal immigrants, especially seniors," said Yeh Ling-Ling of Orinda,
national representative of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration
Moratorium. "They're doing so at the expense of working families who can't make
ends meet."

Critics contend SSI is widely abused by elderly Third World immigrants, many of
whom live with their children but collect SSI.

Immigration advocates counter that last year's crackdown was so sweeping that
tens of thousands of legitimately indigent people faced cut-offs.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORIES: Page 1A

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                OCTOBER 8, 1997 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SOCIAL SERVICES CRISIS AVERTED

BYLINE: TINI TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 438 words


The onset of federal welfare reform had county officials worried that an
avalanche of legal immigrants and families with children would overwhelm local
services. But a year later, their worst-case predictions haven't materialized.

As a result, Santa Clara County is in much better shape than anticipated, Social
Services Director Yolanda Rinaldo told supervisors Tuesday during a presentation
on the impact of reform.

Emergency food programs have seen a minimal increase in calls, and general
assistance, the county-funded aid program of last resort thatofficials feared
would be flooded, has seen a drop in its caseload.

The impact was eased mostly by lobbying efforts at the state and federal levels
that reversed the law's harsher aspects, Rinaldo said. For example, Congress
decided to restore SSI benefits to disabled and elderly immigrants -- 16,345 in
this county. State legislators also chose to restore Medi-Cal benefits to legal
immigrants; 18,000 benefited in Santa Clara County.

The county's robust economy, driven by the booming engine of Silicon Valley,
also has made it easier for job seekers. The social services agency had been
committed to placing 5,000 people into jobs this first year, and the
availability of work has kept placement rates for the first quarter at record
highs.

The county's preparation for welfare reform has also contributed significantly.
Last fall, Santa Clara became the first county in the nation to encourage legal
immigrants to become naturalized citizens -- restoring benefits that would
otherwise be denied.

"We did something very unique here. We started involving the community early on,
and that has paid off," Rinaldo said.

An extensive community effort that began in February 1996 set up the county's
workfare program, which restructures the social services system to promote
employment, strengthen resources for children and improve access to job
training.

Despite the fairly good news, concerns remain over welfare reform.

About 8,600 immigrants lack food stamps. The safety-net food programs have seen
an increase of up to 20 percent in calls, hardly the flood they expected.
Officials speculate that many people may not know the services are available.
That worries Supervisor Blanca Alvarado.

"This is definitely an emergency. If it's not happening right now, it's coming,"
she said.

County officials say their biggest concern is child-care funding from the state,
which is expected to come up $1 million short for the coming year. If more
parents will be required to work, the need for subsidized child care will only
grow, officials say.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1997 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 March 21, 1998 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

COPING WITH FOOD STAMP CUT IMMIGRANTS: MOST WHO HAD BENEFITS REDUCED AREN'T
USING FOOD BANKS, SURVEY SAYS.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 662 words


Nearly half of Santa Clara County's legal immigrants affected by federal food
stamp cuts say they don't have enough to eat, but only a tiny minority are
turning to local food banks for help, according to a new survey.

The survey results were announced at a Friday news conference at which county
officials and representatives of religious and immigrant rights groups called on
Congress to restore food stamps for non-citizens.

"This is an immoral deprivation of people," said the Rev. Eugene Boyle, chairman
of the Interfaith Council on Religion, Race, Economic and Social Justice.

The telephone survey was completed by the Santa Clara Valley Employment Support
Initiative, launched last year by schools, churches and social service agencies
in response to welfare reform. More than 400 food stamp clients or ex-clients
were reached by phone; 376 participated. The county estimates that benefits to
roughly 8,000 adults in more than 5,000 households were cut.

The report said that "almost half of the participants in the survey indicated
not having enough food," although no percentage was given.

Clients were asked their main strategy for making up for the loss of food stamp
benefits.

Only 4 percent of respondents said they used local food programs. Forty-five
percent said they were working more hours. Thirty-two percent said they were
buying cheaper food. Fourteen percent said they received help from relatives.

After President Clinton signed the welfare reform bill into law in August 1996,
local social service officials had predicted that food banks would be swamped
with hungry immigrants. But that hasn't happened, food bank officials said
Friday.

One big reason: Food stamp cuts have been less severe in California because the
state created its own food-stamp program to provide relief to thousands of
immigrants. The program, however, provides aid only to the elderly and children.

Other explanations are the strength of the local economy and that many
immigrants are moving more relatives into their homes to save money, said
officials of the Second Harvest Food Bank of Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties.

"The other reason may be cultural," said Dave Sandretto, the food bank's
executive director. "They don't feel comfortable going to a service organization
for food."

Food stamps to most legal immigrants were cut off last September under the
landmark 1996 welfare reform act, which axed welfare benefits to most
non-citizens.

Congress last summer restored Supplemental Security Income benefits for the
disabled elderly. But it didn't restore food stamps.

Nationwide, more than 1.5 million people -- legal immigrants and U.S. citizens
-- live in households affected by the immigrant food stamp cut.

Clinton has proposed spending $2.43 billion over five years to restore food
stamps to immigrants -- but Congress has not acted on the request.

Bich Chi of San Jose, 26, a single mother of two, said her monthly food stamp
allotment was slashed from $242 under the federal program to $122 under the
state program.

Chi, who emigrated from Vietnam four years ago, held a paper plate at the news
conference that read, "I need food -- more rice."

She said that her 6-year-old boy and 4-year-old girl have lost weight because
she can't afford enough meat -- or even bananas.

Chi, laid off from her job as a seamstress, has tried food banks. But, she said,
her family doesn't like the food because it isn't Vietnamese.

County Supervisor Blanca Alvarado said the county has done two things to
alleviate immigrants' hunger: It has started a citizenship program that has
naturalized some 7,000 people, many of whom would have lost food stamps. And it
has given $1 million to Second Harvest Food Bank and the United Way to
compensate for welfare reform.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Who is losing benefits
Adult immigrants whose food stamps aid is being cut, by ethnicity

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Marina Hinestrosa, a staff writer for Nuevo Mundo, the Spanish-language
weekly of the Mercury News, contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 179 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   May 25, 1998 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE NEED FOR FOOD STAMPS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 467 words


UNDER pressure from President Clinton, the Senate has partially restored
food-stamp benefits for legal immigrants that welfare reforms had rescinded. The
vote was a moral vindication and a financial windfall for California and other
states that had stepped forward to assume this federal responsibility rather
than shift the obligation to counties and towns. But, while encouraging, the
Senate action does not go far enough.

The $818 million appropriation, which awaits action in the House, applies only
to children and the elderly, the same groups currently covered in California.
And it comes amid disturbing reports of hunger among legal immigrant families
nationwide, including California.

The denial of food stamps and other programs to legal immigrants was a cynical
piece of the 1996 welfare law. Many of these immigrants are trapped for years in
legal limbo awaiting citizen status. Clinton quickly acknowledged the provision
was unfair and promised to restore some of the benefits. It has taken Congress
two years to act.

Meanwhile, California's legislature appropriated $35 million for food stamps for
45,000 legal immigrants under 18 and over 65, 5,500 of whom live in Santa Clara
County. The actual cost to the state turned out to be closer to $50 million.

Nonetheless, there are signs of deprivation. Recent surveys at immigrant centers
in Los Angeles and San Francisco indicated a disproportionately high incidence
of hunger among legal immigrants, according to the organization California Food
Policy Advocates. This was true not only among families that lost all access to
food stamps, but also in households where children and the aged qualified for
help. The implication: Partial restoration alone will not eradicate hunger in a
household short of money.

Relief workers also suspect that some legal immigrants who are eligible for food
stamps aren't applying. This is hard to quantify, because overall welfare rolls
have fallen sharply over the past year. But they surmise that the program's
initial termination notice by the feds, followed by the restoration by the
state, confused some families and intimidated others.

Although Congress is unlikely to fund food stamps for non-elderly adult legal
immigrants, California should. And it can do so by using the money it no longer
will have to spend on immigrant children and the aged. Assembly Speaker Antonio
Villaraigosa is championing an expansion of the program, but Gov. Pete Wilson,
long an opponent of using state money for immigrant benefits, likely will fight
it.

Congress' action on food stamps should not be seen as just a windfall but also
as an opportunity for California. Legal immigrants often face hardships in their
new land. But in this country, hunger should not be one of them.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: [Food coupons]

                     Copyright 1998 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
