
                               1 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

APPARENT VICTORY IN U.S. COURT COULD BE LOST THROUGH NEW LAWS PROP. 187: FIGHT
LOOMS FOR ITS FOES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 933 words


As the euphoria of their Monday court victory wore off, opponents of Proposition
187 began garnering ammunition Tuesday for a long-term legal battle in which
success is far from certain.

Particularly worrisome to foes of the initiative, which sought to deny a host of
state benefits to illegal immigrants, was U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer's
ruling that parts of the measure can survive even as others are jettisoned.
Attorneys for immigrant-rights groups had been hoping for a knockout punch from
Pfaelzer, long reviled by Proposition 187 boosters as a liberal,
"pro-illegal-alien" judge.

But a close reading of her 72-page decision showed that Pfaelzer believes
denying benefits to illegal immigrants is constitutionally permissible as long
as it's consistent with federal statutes and done in a prudent way that doesn't
emulate Big Brother.

To show what she considered a proper way to deny benefits, Pfaelzer pointed to a
federally mandated program in which state workers check with the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service for information on the immigration status
of welfare applicants. The workers can access INS information - but are not
allowed to report illegal immigrants to the agency, as called for in Proposition
187.

Lawyers battling the measure argued that Pfaelzer had no choice but to rule the
way she did - because federal law and previous court decisions are so clear
about the state's role in immigration.

Her decision represented "nothing more and nothing less than the state of the
world," said Doug Mirell, an attorney working for both the American Civil
Liberties Union and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

But, Mirell conceded, that world can change quickly.

"Sure, Congress can do a number of things against undocumented immigrants - and
we're going to have problems," he said. "Congress could choose to enact a
national version of 187."

Gov. Pete Wilson, who seemed depressed by the decision Monday night but wore a
happy face by Tuesday morning, had a similar view of the political terrain.

"California taxpayers should know that Congress has heard our outrage, and they
are acting," Wilson said. "We are very encouraged by federal law changes
advancing through the Congress and are hopeful that when they pass, much of
Proposition 187 will become law despite the court's ruling."

Wilson pointed to a provision recently inserted into the popular welfare-reform
bill, which has cleared both houses of Congress in different forms, although it
is still unclear whether President Clinton will sign such legislation. Paul
Kranhold, Wilson's press secretary, said the amendment would permit states to
require that employees of agencies such as welfare and university admissions
offices provide the INS with information on the immigration status of
applicants.

Federal authority

Similar provisions in Proposition 187 were struck down Monday by Pfaelzer, who
ruled that the authority to regulate immigration belonged exclusively to the
federal government.

From here, the Proposition 187 lawsuit almost certainly will go to trial early
next year on the legal issues not struck down in Pfaelzer's summary judgment
Monday. Not until the trial is over will lawyers be allowed to appeal.

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, speaking to reporters Tuesday in San Jose,
where he met with a small group of executives employed in technology industries,
was sympathetic to efforts to legislatively overturn Pfaelzer's ruling.

The ruling "sends a message to Congress that we may have to get into this," the
GOP presidential campaign front-runner said. "That was how I viewed 187 in the
first place, as a strong message to Washington that if we couldn't protect our
borders, then we could expect some action to help the states. And that's still
my view."

But Dole declined to support any particular measure.

Wilson, who accompanied Dole on his campaign trip, had no such reservations. He
pointed to legislation sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, that the
governor said would free states from the burdens imposed by successive waves of
federal mandates to provide services to illegal immigrants.

Dole said he hasn't seen Gallegly's bill but promised to study it.

"I like to take a look at things before I support them," he said when pressed.
"It's not a requirement in our business. But every now and then, we do the right
thing."

Groups supporting Proposition 187 similarly predicted that Pfaelzer's ruling
will backfire.

'New sense of urgency'

"It throws the ball back into Congress' court with a new sense of urgency," said
Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. "This is a
tremendous incentive for Congress to pass more legislation" to fight illegal
immigration.

Some analysts warned that the politics of Proposition 187 aren't as simple as
they might appear.

Clinton might be reluctant to support any legislation perceived as
anti-immigrant, said Harry Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center, a
Claremont policy research institute that focuses on Latino issues. That's
because Latino voters opposed Proposition 187 by a 4-1 ratio - and Pachon said
Clinton will need those voters to win California next year.

Pachon also speculated that many Asian-American and black voters - who were
evenly split on the measure last November - have since turned against it after
it led to congressional bills aimed at legal immigrants and became associated
with efforts to eliminate affirmative action programs.

"All of a sudden, the 'them' became 'us,' " Pachon said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: South Bay residents react to ruling. PAGE 3B
Proposition 187
Mercury News Political Editor Phil Trounstine contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 22, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE GOES EASY ON LEGAL IMMIGRANTS BUT IT VOTES TOUGH MEASURES TO CLAMP DOWN ON
ILLEGAL ENTRY

BYLINE: THOMAS FARRAGHER AND KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff, Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 871 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Illegal immigrants, beware. Legal immigrants, take a deep breath.

That was the message sent Thursday by the House, which launched an attack on
illegal immigration that echoed California's Proposition 187 - but scrapped a
provision clamping down on legal immigration.

The sweeping measure approved on a 333-87 vote calls for a fortified border
fence near San Diego and thousands of new border police, establishes a pilot
employee-identification system, and allows states to bar illegal immigrants from
public schools.

"We need to remember that immigration is not an entitlement, it is a privilege,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, the chief sponsor. "We're saying to an
overwhelming majority of Americans: We hear you."

Approval came after a stirring debate, in which several lawmakers argued voters
are clamoring for "no-nonsense" measures against illegal immigrants but didn't
want to roll up the nation's welcome mat to those seeking lawful entry.

Hard-line immigration opponents called the bill a "mirage" because it failed to
crack down on illegal hiring and stripped language that would have wiped out
legal immigration by the siblings and most adult children of U.S. citizens. That
provision would have trimmed legal immigration from existing annual levels of
about 800,000 today to 550,000 five years from now.

The House action prompted a collective sigh of relief in thousands of Silicon
Valley homes, where immigrants have patiently waited years for family members to
come to America.

"If this bill had passed both houses of Congress, I could not bring my daughter
here," said Diem Ton of Sunnyvale, a former South Vietnamese army captain who
took the citizenship oath last week. "She's the only child my wife and I have,"
he said. "We are counting day by day to bring her over."

'A mirage'

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for Immigration Reform, called
the bill "a shimmer of reform - a mirage," not only because it failed to curb
legal immigration but also because it took the teeth out of a plan aimed at
cutting hiring of illegal immigrants by verifying the legal residency of job
applicants.

The legislation sets up a telephone-verification system that allows employers to
use a toll-free number to check on the eligibility status of potential workers.
But in a compromise to businesses and civil libertarians, Stein noted, the
bill's pilot program was made voluntary instead of mandatory.

"There's no way Californians who went to the polls on Proposition 187, saying we
need the tools to fight illegal immigration, should stand for this," he said.
"Congress is simply blowing it. They're kowtowing to cheap-labor interests and
ethnic group interests inside the Beltway."

Sally Vaughn of the Cupertino-based United Citizens for Immigration Control
agreed: "Lip service. Lip service. Lip service. The vast majority of American
people want illegal immigration stopped, but they also want legal immigration
restricted. This is a nation but it's also our home - not a job market, a
welfare relief agency or a relief valve for (Mexico)."

1,000 more agents

The bill would add 1,000 U.S. Border Patrol agents each year for the next five
years and authorizes a 14-mile-long triple fence near San Diego to replace a
single border fence. It also would make it easier to deport criminal immigrants,
institute a lifetime ban for anyone caught entering the country illegally and
toughen penalties for smuggling illegal immigrants.

Like Prop. 187 - the initiative approved in 1994 but later largely invalidated
in court - the measure would block illegal immigrants from getting most public
benefits. In at least one case it would go further, prohibiting illegal
immigrants from applying for some forms of welfare on behalf of their U.S.-born
children.

The White House took particular aim Thursday at a provision that would allow
states to deny public education to illegal immigrants. The Supreme Court in 1982
struck down a Texas law that sought to deny education to illegal immigrants, but
supporters of the provision feel that the current court may be disposed to allow
such restrictions.

'Nutty idea'

White House spokesman Michael McCurry called the ban a "nutty idea" but said
Clinton expects to work out an agreement on a bill that he could sign. The House
version also must be reconciled with a pending Senate bill.

Under a Clinton veto threat, the House also rejected a bid to create a
250,000-person guest worker program sought by agriculture interests.

Language that would have restricted high-tech companies' ability to hire tens of
thousands of foreign-born engineers and programmers for jobs in the United
States was watered down in the bill's final version. The American Electronics
Association said Thursday it "can live with the provisions" of the House-passed
bill.

CHART: HOW THEY VOTED
Here's how Bay Area representatives voted. A "yes" vote is a vote to pass the
bill.
*  Yes (hbox) No (dmd) Not voting
*  Baker (R)
(hbox) Campbell (R)
(hbox) Dellums (D)
*  Eshoo (D)
*  Farr (D)
*  Lantos (D)
(hbox) Lofgren (D)
(hbox) Pelosi (D)
(dmd)  Stark (D)
(hbox) Woolsey (D)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               3 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 5, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SON OF PROP. 187

BYLINE: FRANK DEL OLMO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 758 words


HARD-CORE proponents of California's Proposition 187 are seething at U.S.
District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer's decision to nullify most of the notorious
anti-immigration initiative as unconstitutional. But she did them a big favor.

In tossing the most muddled and mean-spirited elements of the controversial
initiative in the legal trash bin where they belong, Pfaelzer has virtually
guaranteed that Congress will now finish rewriting the nation's immigration laws
pretty much as most people who voted for Proposition 187 wanted - to stop
illegal immigration. But Congress is likely to do a smarter, more balanced job
of it than the assortment of political hacks and anti-immigrant wackos who threw
Proposition 187 together.

That is what Proposition 187's more astute backers - like that smart hypocrite
Gov. Pete Wilson - wanted all along. They hoped to create political momentum for
immigration reform.

California Attorney General Dan Lungren, who wants to run for governor when
Wilson's term ends, is in the best position to benefit from this latest turn of
events. A former member of Congress who worked on immigration issues while on
Capitol Hill in the 1980s, Lungren knows that any appeal on Proposition 187's
behalf will take years to reach the U.S. Supreme Court, and still runs the risk
of losing. Lungren should let immigration restrictionist groups waste their time
and money on that process, while he and other California officials help work out
a compromise on the immigration issue. The outlines of an immigration compromise
are there.

The compromise starts with HR 2202, the hodgepodge immigration bill by Rep.
Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House immigration subcommittee. As often
happens when faraway Washington policy-makers react to a grass-roots issue like
Proposition 187, Smith overdid it. His bill not only proposes tighter border
controls and other measures to halt illegal immigration - on which there is wide
consensus - but it also mixes apples in with the oranges by trying to restrict
legal immigration as well.

There is no consensus that legal immigration needs to be slowed, except among
the fringe groups that see immigration as a greater threat to the nation than
budget deficits, AIDS or global warming. That's why conservative Republican
House members from California are demanding that measures affecting legal
immigrants be taken out of HR 2202 and considered separately. That's an
eminently sensible stance, although Smith has so far resisted efforts to break
his bill up into its component parts.

But now a new player has entered the game, one Smith will have a harder time
resisting because it is one of the most powerful lobbying groups on Capitol
Hill: U.S. agribusiness.

Smith's subcommittee is quietly planning new hearings on HR 2202 in early
December in cooperation with the House Agriculture Committee, according to
several Capitol Hill sources. The prime movers in this process are two
Californians who represent the state's Central Valley, Republican Richard W.
Pombo and Democrat Gary A. Condit. Like Wilson - and Lungren, if he's smart -
they listen when agribusiness talks.

Think back now to 1986, and the last great Immigration Reform and Control Act
that Congress enacted. The process took almost 10 years, beginning when Gerald
Ford was president and ending when Ronald Reagan was in his second term. The act
would probably not have passed even in 1986 but for a big concession to
agribusiness, a Special Agricultural Workers amnesty program that legalized more
than 1 million immigrants. For comparison, the regular amnesty in the act
legalized slightly fewer than 2 million.

So the Great Immigration Compromise of 1996 - that's probably when it will
happen - is taking shape. It involves more border control to cut down on illegal
immigration and some form of guest worker program to meet farmers' labor needs.

Like Pfaelzer's decision to toss out most of Proposition 187, that compromise
will drive hard-core immigration restrictionists nuts. But it gives the rest of
us a compromise that could help calm the angry immigration debate that
Proposition 187 symbolized. And it might even work.

Consider: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics indicate that
50 percent of the people arrested each year illegally crossing the border are
Mexican nationals. So better border control combined with a Mexican guest worker
program solves half of the illegal immigrant problem. Even Proposition 187's
most ardent backers couldn't guarantee that.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Frank Del Olmo is a Los Angeles Times columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ILLUSTRATION BY TIM BRINTON
[951205 ED 9B 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               4 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 22, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESSMAN CALLS FOR HEARINGS AFTER BEING 'HOODWINKED' BY INS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 308 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


A congressman Friday called for hearings into the Immigration and Naturalization
Service after learning he'd been hoodwinked by officials who cleared out an
overcrowded detention center before his tour.

Immigration officials transferred or released dozens of illegal aliens from the
Krome Detention Center to hide overcrowding before a congressional task force
visit, a Justice Department investigation determined Thursday.

"It's clear that a number of INS officials made a reckless decision to release
illegal aliens, many of them dangerous, into the community at large," said Rep.
Mark Foley, R-Fla. "Those individuals who are responsible for such foolish
actions should be dismissed immediately."

The head of the task force, Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, agreed the report was
serious.

"The most egregious activities that I saw in this report were the obvious
attempts to cover up their actions, and then to lie to the Justice Department,"
Gallegly said. "Lying to Congress is certainly a serious issue, but obstructing
justice is even more disturbing."

On June 10, 1995, 103 illegal aliens were moved out of the overcrowded center
just before the delegation arrived, according to the department's Office of the
Inspector General. Another 58 detainees were also freed, including nine with
criminal records and others whose health had not been examined.

The report also said that additional inspectors were brought in and that agents
were told to put their weapons away to present a "kinder, gentler" image.

The investigation was prompted by a complaint filed later by 50 Miami-area INS
employees.

In response, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said Thursday that she had assigned
four senior field managers to non-supervisory duties in Washington, and is
dispatching a management review team to the Miami district office.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 14, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON HITS AGAIN AT ILLEGAL WORKERS EMPLOYERS FACE BAR FROM U.S. CONTRACTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


In another election-year salvo against illegal immigration, President Clinton on
Tuesday barred employers of undocumented workers from winning federal contracts
for a year.

As a result of Clinton's executive order, businesses that knowingly hire
employees who are illegally in the country will be unable to compete for new
government contracts, mostly for jobs such as landscaping federal property and
cleaning U.S. buildings.

"When it comes to enforcing our nation's immigration laws, we mean business,"
Clinton said in announcing the order.

The White House noted that thousands of employers could be affected by the ban,
but it is unlikely that many will fall prey to it.

That is because U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service agents would first
have to prove the businesses knew the employees were not authorized to work in
America - a charge the overworked INS enforcers have found difficult to make
stick since Congress cracked down on illegal hiring in 1986.

In a year in which immigration is expected to be a major issue in the
presidential campaign, particularly in vote-rich California, Clinton's order
represents the latest in a series of high-profile initiatives trumpeted by the
administration as evidence of the president's commitment to curbing the flow of
illegal immigrants across the nation's borders.

One initiative is a crackdown on the small percentage of immigrants who commit
crimes, with beefed up efforts to detain and deport them. Another is an ongoing
tightening of enforcement along the border with Mexico.

Later in the day, White House press secretary Michael McCurry denied that
politics influenced the president's issuing of the order.

"There is no grounds to suggest this is an executive order based on politics,"
McCurry said. "This president has consistently said he would do a better job of
protecting our borders and making sure that immigration to the United States
occurs in a legal fashion."

As he did in his State of the Union address last month, Clinton also equated
immigration curbs with protecting U.S. jobs.

"America's jobs belong to America's legal workers," the president said in the
statement announcing the order.

As part of a crackdown on illegal workers in connection with the presidential
directive, federal authorities Monday raided a construction site in Atlanta and
arrested 20 Mexicans and Hondurans who were working on a new $200 million
federal office building. The illegal immigrants, who were earning from $7 to $14
an hour, were working directly in front of the Atlanta office of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

On Feb. 8, federal agents arrested 22 Mexicans who were working illegally at
construction sites on the Camp Lejeune Marine Corps base in North Carolina, the
INS said. The workers were employed by six companies holding federal contracts
worth a total of $37 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
President Clinton said the order protects U.S. jobs.
[960214 FR 9A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               6 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 21, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CARE SUBSIDY FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PLANNED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Gov. Pete Wilson said Friday that House Speaker Newt Gingrich will support plans
to give states $6 billion over the next seven years to pay emergency health-care
costs for illegal immigrants.

California and Texas are expected to be the major beneficiaries, Wilson said,
because they have the largest numbers of illegal immigrants.

"I enthusiastically applaud Speaker Gingrich's announced intention to require
the federal government to assume the full costs," Wilson said in a statement.

A provision allowing for the payments beginning next year will be included in
the GOP budget, Gingrich said in San Diego where he was attending a political
event. The Georgia Republican would not provide specifics, saying it still must
be worked out with the Senate.

Wilson has been battling with the Clinton administration for several years over
reimbursements for not only health care, but prison and education expenses. He
filed two lawsuits in an attempt to force the federal government to assume the
full cost of services to illegal immigrants. Courts have struck down both suits,
and appeals have been filed.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               7 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 1, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STATE TRIES TO BREATHE LIFE INTO PROP. 187 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: LAWYERS MAKE CASE
TO JUDGE FOR CUTTING OFF FUNDS FOR NUMEROUS PROGRAMS.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 609 words


Trying to resuscitate an ailing Proposition 187, state Attorney General Dan
Lungren's office has told a federal judge that California should be able to cut
off funding to illegal immigrants under programs that cover everything from
prenatal and abortion services to treatment of sexually transmitted diseases.

Such an interpretation is consistent with a November ruling by U.S. District
Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who threw out most of the 1994 ballot measure aimed at
denying publicly funded benefits to illegal immigrants, Lungren's lawyers said
in a brief submitted Wednesday to Pfaelzer.

Lungren's lawyers argued that the passage of Proposition 187 should mean that
California taxpayers no longer have to pay illegal immigrants under programs
that are totally state-funded. And the lawyers broadly interpreted what
"state-funded" means, saying the state should be allowed to cut funding wherever
the state is now exceeding U.S. requirements for a federal program.

For example, the state funds elective abortions and those resulting from rape
and incest - funding of which is prohibited under federal law. It also provides
disaster relief to individuals and families beyond that provided by the federal
government.

In gutting Proposition 187, Pfaelzer, who is expected to rule on the state's
brief within a few months, decided the state was pre-empting the federal
government's authority to regulate immigration. But she left open the
possibility that the state could deny illegal immigrants services for programs
for which the state picks up the tab.

In a little-noticed part of the decision, Pfaelzer indicated she believed
denying benefits to illegal immigrants was constitutionally permissible as long
as it was consistent with federal statutes and did not try to set up an
"immigration scheme."

"Judge Pfaelzer had expressed some doubts as to whether there are any genuinely
state-funded programs, and what we have done is point out to her the ones that
are," said Lisa Brandt, deputy director and chief counsel at the state
Department of Health Services.

Brandt said there are roughly a dozen "programs or pieces of programs" in which
the state could stop funding to illegal immigrants. In addition to Medi-Cal
abortions for poor women, they include in-home care for the elderly, blind and
disabled; an early-detection program for breast cancer; and treatment of minors
for sexually transmitted diseases.

Most services provided by the state Department of Social Services already are
denied to illegal immigrants under federal law, Brandt said.

For the time being, the state will issue regulations only to deny illegal
immigrants funding for state-funded prenatal and long-term health care programs.
Providing those services to undocumented immigrants cost the state $73.7 million
in the last fiscal year, according to state health officials. By March 31, the
Department of Health Services will submit the regulations to Pfaelzer, who will
rule on their legality.

Issuing Proposition 187 regulations for the other state-funded health and
welfare programs would be a waste of time and state resources until the measure
survives additional constitutional challenges, the state attorneys argued.

Lungren's attorneys also said they will seek immediate review in the 9th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals of Pfaelzer's rulings overturning Proposition 187
provisions outside the health and social service arenas. Those provisions
include denial of education to elementary and secondary school children in the
country illegally and a requirement that police officers report "suspected"
illegal immigrants to U.S. authorities.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 21, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187, FEDERAL-STYLE CONGRESS CRACKS DOWN, AND FOR WHAT? TO CATCH A FEW
PEOPLE WHO DO AMERICA'S GRUNT WORK

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 478 words


SEVERAL months ago, some members of Congress tried to fashion a national version
of California's Proposition 187. They had little success and it's no wonder why.

Instead of listening to voters' concerns, they tried to turn immigration to
political advantage. Although many Proposition 187 voters suspected the measure
was unconstitutional, they approved it anyway to send a loud message they wanted
our borders secured and illegal immigration brought under control. The
post-election surveys showed almost no public support for Proposition 187's
worst inhumanity - throwing undocumented kids out of school.

Now, fast-forward to today's Congress. Republicans in the Senate and House have
crafted separate immigration bills. The Senate's, sponsored by Alan K. Simpson,
is far better, but not because it will actually curb illegal immigration. It's
better because the House bill, steered by Speaker Newt Gingrich, has become
nothing but an election-year club to use against President Clinton.

As both chambers prepare to hammer out a compromise bill, hard-line Republicans
under Gingrich are scheming to poison Simpson's bill and dare Clinton to veto
it.

The hard-liners want to insert the worst of Proposition 187. They would give
every state the right to deny a public education to the children of illegal
immigrants. Never mind that Texas once had and exercised this reprehensible
"right," and that the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it unconstitutional 14 years ago.
Never mind that 187's authors knew about the Texas precedent and didn't care.
And never mind the Californians who want immigration laws controlled at
checkpoints, not in classrooms or health clinics.

The strategy of Gingrich's hard-liners is to go to the GOP nominating convention
in San Diego two months from now, point their fingers south at Mexico, and then
blame Clinton for vetoing the immigration bill.

Even Simpson's Senate bill disappoints. At best, it would double the number of
Border Patrol agents and equip them better. At worst, it would set up an
experimental "worker verification" that could easily lead to another layer of
watchman government. And for what? To catch less than 2 percent of the national
workforce - undocumented men and women who do America's grunt work.

The truth about illegal immigration is that the folks who benefit the most, rich
farmers and garment factory owners, for example, can hire and exploit
undocumented workers and get away with it. They're addicted to cheap labor from
Third World countries. Nothing in these bills says anything about getting tough
on sweatshop conditions that give unscrupulous employers the incentive to seek
illegal labor. They say nothing about increasing the number of visas for
low-skill workers to do jobs the American labor force cannot fill.

This is not the year for real solutions to illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials: The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: [statue of liberty with police baton]
[960621 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                               9 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 12, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEWT'S HEAVY HAND ANTI-IMMIGRATION TASK FORCE EMBRACES BIG GOVERNMENT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 351 words


NEWT Gingrich's task force on illegal immigration has proposed a disappointing
collection of Big Government intrusions that probably are not constitutional.
And even if they are, they won't work.

You have to wonder why Speaker of the House Gingrich, who says he promotes the
downsizing of federal government, embraces the notion of turning nurses,
teachers and other public servants into federal snoops. One idea would require
hospital emergency room staff to report illegal-immigrant accident victims to
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, giving new meaning to ambulance
chasing. Another would have the government seize the assets of border crossers.
That's fine for taking the speed boats used by narcotics smugglers, but what do
you take from a Mexican day laborer?

The recommendations go on and on like that, sounding even more heavy handed than
Proposition 187. No matter how one feels about 187, it should be clear that
anything so sweeping in its attempt to limit constitutional protections would
end up in court for a
long time. Gingrich's task force is repeating the same, overreaching mistake and
may end up doing another disservice to Americans who are genuinely worried about
illegal immigration.

Immigration chief Doris Meissner already has a better approach, and a bipartisan
commission on immigration reform is adding some good ideas.

So far, the Clinton administration has avoided quick fixes, such as militarizing
the border, and mean-spirited ones like throwing the children of illegal
immigrants out of school. This more realistic approach focuses on public safety
and long-term strategies to discourage illegal immigration. It's much wiser to
go after criminal immigrants, smuggling rings, and the unscrupulous employers of
illegal immigrants than to chase after undocumented nannies and accident
victims.

Workable solutions to illegal immigration aren't all that elusive, but they
require patience and smart spending. All the Gingrich task force does is exploit
the immigration issue for political advantage and throw a smoke screen over a
sensible strategy.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              10 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 26, 1995 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

187 FOES SEEK NO-TRIAL WIN WILSON'S TACTICS MAY BACKFIRE AT COURT HEARING

BYLINE: Bob Egelko, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Opponents of Proposition 187 hoped to turn Gov. Pete Wilson's strategic move
against him today and scuttle most of the immigration initiative without a
trial.

Wilson, invited by a federal judge to submit regulations that would clarify
disputed terms of 187, declined and challenged opponents to prove that the
measure was unconstitutional in all possible applications.

Immigrants'-rights groups responded by saying a trial, scheduled this September
to resolve any factual disputes over the initiative, should no longer be
necessary. Instead, they asked U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer to rule that
the measure fatally conflicts with federal immigration law.

Proposition 187, passed last November, denies public education, social services
and non-emergency public health care to illegal immigrants, and requires state
and local officials to report "reasonably suspected" illegal immigrants to
federal authorities. Nearly all of it has been blocked by court orders.

In an injunction last November that barred enforcement of most of 187, Pfaelzer
said the initiative appeared to conflict with federal authority over
immigration. She said the measure would deny benefits to some immigrants who may
be entitled to receive them under federal law, and would pressure some
immigrants to leave the country who may be entitled to stay.

The federal case focuses on the health and welfare restrictions. The ban on
public schooling of illegal immigrants - which appears to conflict with a 1982
U.S. Supreme Court ruling - and on public higher education are being argued
before a San Francisco Superior Court judge, who has blocked their enforcement.

The key question today was whether Proposition 187, by denying benefits to a
broadly defined group of immigrants and encouraging the deportation of
"suspected" illegal immigrants, amounts to a "scheme to regulate immigration" in
violation of exclusive federal authority, as Pfaelzer suggested last December.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              11 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 21, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE IMMIGRATION FIX IS WHAT'S OUT OF CONTROL

BYLINE: Joanne Jacobs column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 672 words


NOT ONLY are the tired, poor, wretched and huddled unwelcome in the United
States these days, Congress is trying to keep out skilled workers and
naturalized citizens' adult children.

Legal immigrants could pay a high price for the national frustration over
illegal immigration. The logic seems to be that if you can't control people who
are breaking the law, punish those who are obeying it.

The House Judiciary Committee has taken up HR 2022, a huge bill by Texas
Republican Lamar Smith that deals with both illegal and legal immigration. "As
the (Clinton) administration and the bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform
also have concluded, both are broken and both should be fixed," Smith said
Tuesday.

Illegal immigration is broken. Nobody knows how to fix it.

There's no way to persuade desperately poor people they wouldn't be better off
in America. Because it isn't true. Smith wants to hire more Border Patrol agents
and build more fences. That might slow the flow, but it's an awfully long
border.

Furthermore, the majority of illegal immigrants are legal visitors who overstay
their visas. The only way to discourage them is to adopt a national identity
card linked to a national registry that keeps track of everybody's citizenship
and immigration status. The bill doesn't explain how to pay for establishing or
maintaining such a vast brave-new-world data bank.

It's frustrating. But why penalize people who are playing by the rules?

Legal immigration isn't broken. Aside from the politics of nativism, there's no
logic behind the call for reducing legal immigration, which is indeed echoed by
the administration and the Jordan commission on immigration reform, which called
for a 24 percent cut.

Most legal immigrants quickly pay their own way, and end up making a
contribution to our economic health. They learn English; their children often do
better in school than their American-born classmates. They are eager Americans.

The system could be improved, of course.

I think it makes sense to end the immigration priority for siblings of citizens
and legal residents, which would limit the chain effect and reduce the huge
backlog of family applicants. About 2.6 million spouses, children, parents and
siblings are on waiting lists; they can wait for decades for a visa.

I'd also like to hold sponsors of immigrants legally liable for providing
support, so that elderly parents don't simply go on SSI rolls. (The proposed
welfare reform bills severely limit legal immigrants' eligibility for public aid
in any case.)

But the Smith bill is extreme, illogical and unfair.

The bill would cut legal immigration by 30 percent. Spouses of citizens or legal
residents, and unmarried children under 21, would have first priority for visas;
adult children of legal immigrants, as well as siblings, would be ineligible.

Surely the word "family" in "family reunification" should include children, even
if they're over 21.

Sponsors would have to earn twice the poverty level. That would make it
difficult for working people to bring over family members, rebuilding their
support network here.

Visas for skilled, educated workers also would be cut by nearly 30 percent,
which has alarmed Silicon Valley employers who want access to the world's best
talent. Even if we decide that we want fewer unskilled immigrants, admitted
because of their family status, why would we turn away skilled immigrants?

The Jordan commission also wanted to make it harder to hire skilled immigrants,
apparently thinking that employers are passing up qualified Americans, who pose
no cultural or communications challenges, in order to hire foreigners.

I don't know when Americans forgot that Immigrants 'R Us, when we got so
defensive, scared and small-minded. But I think we should wait to "fix" legal
immigration, until the national mood swings back to the center and we're not so
jittery about the economy. Congress could be on the verge of doing something
really stupid. Give the Prozac time to kick in.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Joanne Jacobs is a member of the Mercury News editorial board. Her column
appears on Mondays and Thursdays.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: JOHN OVERMYER
[U.S. with fence and people outside borders]
[950921 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              12 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 21, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE GUTS CORE OF PROP. 187 RULING: STATE CAN'T FORCE AGENCIES TO REPORT
SUSPECTED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, PAMELA KRAMER AND BY JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury, News Staff
Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Ruling that California had no right to set up its own immigration regulations, a
federal judge Monday ripped the guts out of Proposition 187, the incendiary
initiative approved by three-fifths of the state's voters last November.

In a 72-page decision that outraged the measure's boosters, Judge Mariana
Pfaelzer struck down as unconstitutional its most controversial provision: the
requirement that schools and social welfare agencies ask students and clients to
prove they are in the country legally so that "suspected" undocumented
immigrants be reported to state and federal authorities.

"The California voters' overwhelming approval of Proposition 187 reflects their
justifiable frustration with the federal government's inability to enforce the
immigration laws effectively," Pfaelzer said. "No matter how serious the problem
may be, however, the authority to regulate immigration belongs exclusively to
the federal government and state agencies are not permitted to assume that
authority."

An army of attorneys battling the initiative in state and federal courts hailed
the ruling as a legal harbinger of the measure's ultimate demise.

"There's no question that she has cut the heart out of 187," said Robert Rubin
of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco. "I think her clear
message is that our doctors and teachers have their hands full with traditional
functions and should not be asked to be cops before the INS."

Crowed Mark Rosenbaum, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of
Southern California: "This ruling today means that the Statue of Liberty stands
for more than photo-op sessions for the governor," referring to Pete Wilson's
decision to formally announce his now-defunct bid for the presidency in front of
the statue in New York Harbor.

Wilson, who made Proposition 187 a major issue in his successful 1994
re-election campaign, said he was disappointed with Pfaelzer's ruling.

"It's frustrating the will of the people of California," he said at a Beverly
Hills fund-raiser for Republican presidential hopeful Bob Dole. "This means it
will be in the courts for several years before the issue is resolved."

The governor said he will focus on pursuing federal funds to reimburse
California for the cost of providing services to undocumented immigrants.

Lungren may appeal

Attorney General Dan Lungren, also at the rally, said his office would
concentrate on defending portions of the law left intact for now by Pfaelzer.
And eventually, he said, the state will appeal her ruling to the U.S. Supreme
Court if necessary.

In saying that it was unconstitutional to ban undocumented children from public
elementary and secondary schools, Pfaelzer relied on a 1982 U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in a Texas case that forced states to pay for the education of such
children.

But the judge, who put most of 187 on legal hold soon after it was passed, did
not strike down provisions that deny higher education benefits to undocumented
students. And she said the state may be able to deny benefits under programs
that it funds on its own.

"If state agencies, in verifying eligibility for services and benefits, rely on
federal determinations of status made by the INS," then they might be
constitutionally able to deny benefits, she wrote.

Most of it never enacted

For now, however, the decision will have no practical effect because most of the
measure's provisions were never enacted. The only provisions that Pfaelzer has
allowed to take effect make the use or manufacture of fraudulent immigration
documents a state crime.

Sally Vaughn of San Jose, who gathered signatures to get Proposition 187 on the
ballot, called Monday's decision an affront to democracy.

"I think this certainly shatters any illusions that we are a free people with a
right to self-determination," said Vaughn, spokeswoman for the Cupertino-based
United Citizens for Immigration Control. "The ACLU shysters, working in
collusion with one corrupt federal judge, have demolished the concept of
government by the people. This is a tyranny.

"I think now is the time for every American working man and woman to lay down
their tools in a massive statewide tax revolt and say, 'Hell no. We won't take
it anymore.' "

Cheers over the news

At Delia's Furniture in San Jose, though, employees and customers gathered
around the Spanish-language television news to learn what the judge had decided.

Several employees cheered. Others shook hands.

"We've been so worried about this for so long now that it's a great relief to
hear this," said owner Presentacion Dominguez, 51. "We knew all along that this
was unconstitutional, but we weren't sure whether the judge would be fair and
rule in our favor."

But the legal issues are hardly settled.

Now a trial must be held on other legal questions - most important, whether the
state has a right to deny medical and welfare benefits to illegal immigrants.
And eventually the results of that trial can be appealed to the 9th Circuit
Court of Appeals and, if necessary, to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Rick Oltman, head of the Northern California Yes on 187/Save Our State
committee, said Pfaelzer's ruling was not unexpected. "She was handpicked by our
opponents specifically because she is a liberal, pro-illegal-alien judge," he
said.

Eventually, he said, "we can get this case away from her and . . . at least get
a fair hearing."

Oltman said Pfaelzer insulted California voters by using the "pathetic" term
"undocumented newcomers."

"The term is illegal alien," he said. "That's a legal term. It would be helpful
if our federal judges were more interested in enforcing the law than being
politically correct."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: STATUS OF 187
This is the status of Proposition 187 after U.S. District Judge Mariana
Pfaelzer's ruling Monday:
Ruled unconstitutional
* Provisions requiring school administrators, health care workers and social
workers to collect and report information about immigration status.
Allowed to take effect
* Increased criminal penalties for making, selling or using false immigration
documents.
Awaiting trial
* Provisions that deny higher education benefits to undocumented students.
* Bans on public funding for health clinics and welfare agencies that California
funds on its own.
Source: U.S. District CourtMercury News wire services contributed to this
report.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              13 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 25, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNIVERSAL ID CARD IS ALREADY IN EFFECT VERIFICATION: CALIFORNIA DRIVER'S LICENSE
IS BECOMING PROOF OF LEGAL U.S. RESIDENCE.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1251 words


While civil libertarians have battled the Big Brother in Proposition 187 and
lambasted proposals for a tamper-proof identity card, one thing has escaped
their notice. California already has such a card.

It's called a California driver's license.

For a year and a half now, the state Department of Motor Vehicles has checked
the immigration status of all license applicants. Coupled with new technology
that has made forgeries virtually impossible, the California driver's license is
becoming proof of legal U.S. residence.

"It's become an identity document - absolutely," said John Nahan, director of
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service document-verification program
now used by the DMV. "No one wants to admit it, but that's what has happened."

The credit - or the blame - goes to state Sen. Al Alquist, D-San Jose. In 1993,
he sponsored a bill to crack down on illegal immigrants who used licenses to
establish "proof" of lawful residency to apply for welfare, food stamps and
other benefits available only to legal U.S. residents.

Supporters of Alquist's efforts say the DMV has implemented the law so smoothly
that the experience belies claims by foes of Proposition 187 - the illegal
immigration measure gutted Monday by a federal judge - that the state can't
screen illegal immigrants without racial or ethnic discrimination. The law's
opponents counter that it has driven illegal immigrants further underground and
forced tens of thousands to get behind steering wheels without proper training
or car insurance.

Since March 1, 1994, new applicants for licenses have been asked to present one
of 20 documents - ranging from passports to birth certificates to work- w
authorization cards. No longer accepted for identification are easily forged
foreign birth certificates, U.S. baptismal certificates or out-of-state driver's
licenses.

DMV officials at first opposed Alquist's bill, predicting that screening would
become a bureaucratic mess resulting in longer lines and shorter tempers at DMV
offices. But that hasn't happened, said DMV spokesman William Madison.

In fact, in the program's first 19 months, the DMV processed more than 600,000
license and ID-card applications. Of those, only 2,100 were rejected. More
significantly, the DMV saw applications decrease by 3 percent, as ID-card
applications dropped by a startling 28 percent.

DMV officials say the figures are proof that fraud was widespread before the
program and that few people are now trying to pass off bogus INS documents. Most
illegal immigrants, they say, are now avoiding the California DMV the way
they've always avoided the U.S. Border Patrol.

When the program began, officials say, DMV workers were routinely offered bribes
to accept suspicious documents; applicants often cried, begged or pressured
fellow members of their ethnic group. When field offices routinely began
photocopying INS documents, officials say, many people simply fled, often not
even waiting to get their documents back.

The DMV program applies only to new-license applicants - although some
supporters want it to apply to renewals as well. Expanding the law would no
doubt trigger a fierce legislative fight, since it would require all California
drivers to march down to the DMV with proof of citizenry or legal status.

A handful of other states also ask applicants to prove they are in the country
legally. But California is the first to tap into an INS database to verify
status.

California's DMV has an agreement with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service to use its Systematic Alien Verification of Entitlements (SAVE) program,
developed in the late '80s as a way to stop illegal immigrants from receiving
federal aid.

The DMV quickly became one of the program's biggest customers; about 10 percent
of SAVE's 4 million annual computer queries now come from it.

DMV employees presently copy INS documents and send them to Sacramento, where
employees check names and "alien registration numbers" against the 53 million
INS records maintained by Lockheed-Martin Information Systems in Orlando, Fla.
By the end of next year, however, DMV offices will be equipped to access the
database directly.

The department estimates that it costs the state under a dollar to verify the
status of the average applicant. But if an applicant's name doesn't show up in
two electronic checks, it costs the federal agency roughly $5 for each manual
inspection.

Ironically, at a time that Gov. Pete Wilson is still denouncing the federal
government for forcing the state to shoulder various costs associated with
illegal immigrants, the INS does the DMV checks for free.

California's license is considered "tamper-proof" because holograms, lamination
and other secret features make it all but impossible to alter without
destroying. Forgeries now available in immigrant communities might work for
under-age drinkers but won't withstand visual scrutiny. Forgers have been unable
to duplicate the information on magnetic stripes on the card's back.

Immigrant restrictionists such as Richard Lamm, a former governor of Colorado,
say the federal government should do to Social Security cards what California
has done to its driver's licenses.

To prove how easy it is to get a phony Social Security card, Lamm went to a
Denver flea market and got a bogus card that read "Bill Clinton, 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue" - with no questions asked. On a recent stay at the White
House, Lamm gave the card to the president.

"He was impressed, but he confiscated it and put it in his wallet," Lamm said
with a laugh.

The Wilson administration also says the DMV's program should become a federal
model.

"In 1993, we offered California as a pilot state for such a tamper-proof Social
Security card program to the feds, but they never responded," said Jesus
Arredondo, Wilson's press aide.

Aside from delays at the program's inception, DMV and INS officials say horror
stories have been rare. But don't try telling to Bingfan Hoan, a 34-year-old
immigrant from China.

When this bio-tech researcher moved to Cupertino from Denver in June 1994, she
handed a local DMV clerk her Colorado driver's license and INS "green card" and
was given a temporary license. She was told she'd soon get her permanent license
in the mail.

Seventeen months later, she was still waiting. Hoan said she has been forced to
go down to the DMV every two months to renew her temporary license. Finally, she
said, she asked an employee what she could do and was given an 800 number in
Sacramento that was always busy.

The lack of a permanent ID, she said, has made it nearly impossible for her to
cash checks, since the photoless temporary license "looks like a piece of
paper."

"I feel like it's just another way of California putting down immigrants," Hoan
said. "I feel like a second-class citizen."

Immigrant-rights advocates say the law has also made it impossible for illegal
immigrants to open a bank account or cash checks.

"I can't tell you how times we receive reports of immigrant workers who get
mugged on Friday afternoons because people know they're carrying lots of cash,"
said Lina Avidan of the Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services
in San Francisco. "People shouldn't have to live underground. For survival
purposes, people will drive, with or without a license."

Because you need a license to get insurance, opponents say, the law is also
exacerbating the problem of uninsured motorists.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BIRTH OF AN IDENTITY CARD
The DMV began producing credit-card-style licenses in December 1990. About
two-thirds of California's 20 million driver's licenses and 6 million state ID
cards are now this type. The old license will be phased out in 1998. If you had
a license before March 1, 1994, you're entitled to a four-year renewal without
proving you're in the country legally. Otherwise, you must:
1) Present one of 20 documents -- from a "green card" to a U.S. birth
certificate -- to prove "legal presence" in country.
2) If you're a citizen and can prove it, you'll get a permanent license. If
you're a non-citizen, your INS documents will be sent to Sacramento for
verification. After passing written and road tests, you'll receive a temporary
license.
3) The DMV will check an INS data base for your name and "alien identification
number." If found, you should get your permanent license in two weeks. If not,
the DMV will try again in 40 days to allow for INS delays in updating records.
4) If you're still not found, the DMV sends your records to the INS, which seeks
to verify your status. If the INS is successful, you'll get your permanent
license in a month.
5) If you submitted fraudulent documents, the INS gives them to investigators.
If the INS can't locate your records, they'll notify the DMV, which will ask for
more information. If you choose not to submit more documents, the process ends
there.

GRAPHIC: Diagram;
DIAGRAM: Reid Brown - MERCURY NEWS
Hologram: designed to make the document hard to forge, it depicts the state seal
and the DMV logo. The hologram is two-thousandths of a millimeter thick, so it
cannot be removed or replaced.
Plastic Lamination: makes it virtually impossible to change any of the
information on the license.
Disclaimer: state denial that this is an identity card.
Magnetic Stripe: contains the personal information printed on the front. Forgers
have been producing copycat stripes, but they are simply painted on and contain
no data.
[951125 FR 30A 1; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              14 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 11, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILLS OFFER TO SLOW FLOW

BYLINE: Dan Stein

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 398 words


THE IMMIGRATION reform legislation that is working its way through Congress
represents a culmination of a process that began two years ago in supermarket
parking lots and shopping malls all across California, and resulted in passage
of Proposition 187.

These bills offer mechanisms for more effective control of illegal immigration
as well as changes in legal immigration, which is actually a bigger problem.

The two bills, introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and Sen. Alan Simpson,
R-Wyo., would begin to rectify some of the policy failures that have propelled
illegal and legal immigration to unprecedented levels. These bills would
institute the kind of common-sense reforms that the vast majority of Americans
support and would go a long way toward defusing immigration as a hot button
issue.

To combat illegal immigration, the government would institute a secure
identification procedure that would allow employers and benefit-providers to
verify instantly whether an applicant is entitled to work or collect benefits.
By giving law-abiding employers an effective means of screening out unlawful
workers, the primary magnet that draws illegal immigrants to this country would
be sharply curtailed.

Even more important in the long run is the Smith/Simpson proposal to reduce
legal immigration. Thirty years of steadily increasing admissions, now running
nearly 1 million people a year, is having a greater impact on our country than
our failure to control our borders. The Smith/Simpson reforms would begin to
reverse that trend by instituting a modest 25 percent reduction in overall
numbers. Moreover, they would relieve the pressure on the system by ending
immigration preferences for extended family members.

To the extent that we have immigration at all, it must be limited to the nuclear
family. The promise that entire extended families can be reunited in this
country is unrealistic and denies the nation control over the selection process.
The legislation would also require immigrants' sponsors to assume financial
responsibility for these newcomers, not the American taxpayer.

Had Congress made these changes to our immigration policy when the rumblings of
popular discontent began, a referendum like Proposition 187 never would have
been necessary. Belatedly, Congress is beginning to defuse an issue that has
been complicated by years of neglect.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Dan Stein is executive director of the Federation for Immigration Reform
in Washington. He wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              15 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 15, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. BORDER INITIATIVE ANGERS MEXICO

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Mexican leaders Sunday criticized U.S. plans to increase border enforcement
against illegal immigration from Mexico, calling them unneighborly.

Relations between the two countries could deteriorate as a result of the U.S.
initiative, said Antonio Garcia Sanchez, the government human-rights official in
Baja California state.

"You cannot talk about being good neighbors when a neighboring country and
supposed commercial partner adopts policies that have nothing to do with reality
and only create conflicts," the official Notimex news agency quoted Garcia
Sanchez as saying.

The United States said it will move more border agents and modern equipment to
Arizona and California beginning Tuesday. The effort is intended to prevent an
expected surge of illegal immigrants that stems from normal seasonal increases
and difficult economic times in Mexico.

In the long term, it is part of a broad plan to control illegal immigration and
smuggling, Attorney General Janet Reno and Immigration Commissioner Doris
Meissner said Friday.

The Mexican government expressed serious concern late Friday about reports the
United States may include military forces in patrolling the border.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it caught 1.3 million illegal
immigrants in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, an increase from 1.1 million
the previous year. Most were along the border with Mexico.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              16 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 21, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRITERIA SHOULD FOCUS ON IMMIGRANTS' SKILLS

BYLINE: Lamar Smith

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 361 words


THE United States has a vital interest in ending illegal immigration and
reforming legal immigration to serve the interests of families, workers and
taxpayers. Legislation I've introduced, the Immigration in the National Interest
Act, would do that.

The legal immigration system is broken. Family unification is supposed to be the
core of legal immigration. However, more than 1 million husbands, wives and
minor children of U.S. permanent residents wait years for permission to join
their immediate families. In the meantime, we continue to admit more than
120,000 adult brothers, sisters and children.

Furthermore, these adult immigrant categories are themselves heavily backlogged,
with waits for admission from five to 40 years. The backlogs encourage illegal
immigration.

The bipartisan Commission on Immigration Reform, chaired by the late Barbara
Jordan, criticized these inequities. "Unless there is a compelling interest to
do otherwise, immigrants should be chosen on the basis of the skills they
contribute to the U.S. economy. While the admission of nuclear families and
refugees provide such a compelling national interest, reunification of adult
children and siblings of adult citizens do not reach that level,"' the
commission said.

As the commission recognized, immigration should meet the needs of the American
economy. Yet, more than 75 percent of recent immigration is by persons who have
met no criteria based on education, job skills or even literacy.

My bill would result in admission for all immediate family members of U.S.
citizens and legal permanent residents. The percentage of immigrants admitted on
the basis of skills and education will increase. Sponsors of immigrants will be
held responsible to ensure that new arrivals do not become dependent on public
benefits. Legal immigration will remain at historically high levels: an average
of about 700,000 a year.

The legislation will ensure the prompt admission of those who are entitled to be
admitted to the United States and the prompt exclusion and removal of those who
are not so entitled. Nothing less will serve the national interests of the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on
Immigration and Claims.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              17 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MARCH 1, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILL WORRIES VALLEY SENATE DEFERRAL BOOSTS CHANCES OF LIMITS ON
FOREIGN PROFESSIONALS

BYLINE: Rory J. O'Connor, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 663 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Silicon Valley's efforts to strip a Senate bill of stricter immigration
restrictions was derailed, at least temporarily, on Thursday in a committee
meeting marked by political one-upmanship.

The Senate Judiciary Committee deferred work on crafting a major immigration
reform bill for at least a week. It is an issue that has galvanized the
high-tech industry, which believes the bill will hurt companies' ability to hire
highly skilled foreign workers.

The delay was viewed as good news for those who favor restricting legal
immigration. They feared the committee might separate that issue from the more
popular restrictions on illegal immigration. If the two issues are separated,
supporters fear stricter rules for legal immigrants would die.

"Over half of our illegal immigration comes from people who are here legally, so
how do you separate (legal and illegal immigration) in any conscientious
manner?" said Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., the bill's sponsor. "So the object of
the game for the groups . . . who've always been out to kill anything we do is
to simply split this bill. There's no question about it."

The entire bill is an emotion-laden one, rendered even more volatile by the
anti-immigrant rhetoric of Republican presidential candidates Pat Buchanan and
Lamar Alexander. It touches an especially raw nerve in California, which is home
to nearly 40 percent of the nation's immigrants, more than any other state.

That's because California is at the center of the contentious issue of changes
in legal immigration, which held up progress on the bill Thursday.

The debate found Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., walking a tightrope be tween
high-tech interests, the heart of the state's economic engine, and overwhelming
public demand for action on immigration.

On the one hand, Feinstein said she wants to examine amendments to the bill that
high-tech executives say would cripple their abilities to recruit foreign
workers. But she also criticized some of the industry's complaints and said
California's infrastructure is "stretched to the limit" to accommodate
immigrants. And she came down against splitting the bill, at least for now.

"It has been made clear to me that the modus operandi behind splitting the bill
is an effort to kill the legal bill in the Senate," she said. "That to me
doesn't make good sense."

The high-tech and biotechnology industries strongly oppose language in the bill
that would decrease the number of immigrant workers that can legally enter the
country each year. They also oppose companion language that would force them to
pay such workers 105 percent of the prevailing wage for the work and pay at
least $10,000 per foreign worker to the federal government to be used to retrain
U.S. workers.

At stake, they say, is U.S. competitiveness in a global economy. The industry
maintains there aren't enough U.S.-born professionals like engineers with
certain vital skills. If the industry can't hire foreign workers with those
skills, it risks having foreign companies hire them instead - and reaping the
economic benefit of the products they make.

Executives and industry lobbyists have made defeat of the provisions a top
priority, and earlier this week nearly 100 high-tech executives made their case
throughout the Senate. Their best hope was that a group of committee members,
led by freshman Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., would be able to split the bill
in two.

And it looked for a while like Abraham could muster the 10 votes needed to split
the bill. Several senators gave opening statements either declaring or
indicating such support.

But in a full-blown display of political theater, Abraham's motion was quashed
when Simpson pulled rank and rebuffed the plan.

"When it's all done I don't care what (the bill) looks like because I can paste
it all back on the floor," Simpson said. "I want the courtesy and personal
privilege of (managing) a piece of legislation I've worked years on."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO:
Sen. Alan Simpson said it's logical for the bill to cover legal visitors.
[960301 BU 1C 3; color]
PHOTO:
Sen. Dianne Feinstein said she is against splitting the bill.
[960301 BU 1C 4; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              18 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 5, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL, POLICE PROJECT LACKS FUNDING RIDE-ALONGS KEY TO FEDERAL PLAN FOR
CONTROLLING ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A key component of a federal illegal immigration control plan - police
ride-alongs with Border Patrol agents - is threatened because of a funding
shortfall, officials said.

Officials with the U.S. Justice Department have been able to secure only $1
million for the three-month pilot project instead of the $5 million originally
expected.

"We ran into funding problems, but we're still committed to increasing
cooperation between local law enforcement and the INS," said U.S. Attorney Alan
Bersin, chief strategist for border control in the Southwest.

The program announced last month by Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner Doris Meissner called for local police officers and sheriff's
deputies to ride with Border Patrol agents and perform backup duties, such as
fingerprinting apprehended illegal immigrants.

Federal officials said greater cooperation from police is necessary because of
rising crime in some areas brought on by increased smuggling of illegal
immigrants and drugs.

But the San Diego County Sheriff's Department has turned down a proposal to let
deputies ride as backup in Border Patrol vehicles.

The Chula Vista Police Department also will not participate, and the San Diego
Police Department is expected to play a more limited role, said Justice
Department spokeswoman Ana Cobian.

Law enforcement agencies in Imperial County and Tucson, Ariz., are expected to
participate.

A U.S. House of Representatives immigration subcommittee denied the Justice
Department's request for $5 million to fund the local law enforcement plan. It
cited concerns about using money from the attorney general's emergency funds to
pay for the project, federal officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 20, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIGHTEN LAWS AGAINST ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS, BUT NOT AT THE EXPENSE OF WORTHY
NEWCOMERS DON'T CLOSE DOOR TO AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 706 words


AMERICA'S immigration policy swings between the Statue of Liberty's promise to
those yearning to breathe free and a cranky "Go away, we got here first."

In a crabby mood, some in Congress are endeavoring to alter the nation's
immigration laws. They are propelled by a feeling that immigrants were fine when
they toiled and spawned families like ours, but today the masses huddling by the
border and lining up at consulates would deprive us of jobs, tax dollars and
elbow room.

Some concerns about immigration are well-founded. But overall, America's
policies are sound, balancing family reunification and economic benefit as
immigration goals. Let's not replace Lady Liberty with a triple-layer fence.

Today, the House of Representatives begins debate on immigration legislation,
sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, that would reduce legal immigration by
20 to 43 percent. The bill is supported by groups like the Federation for
Immigration Reform, which, as Ira Mehlman writes on this page, see immigration
as a national threat. It's not.

To start, the House should split the bill into two measures, dealing separately
with illegal and legal immigration, as a Senate committee did last week with a
sister bill by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo.

The only reason to pair the two is to spuriously buttress the case for reducing
legal immigration by tying it to the emotional issue of illegal immigration.
Legal immigration is a matter of social and economic goals; illegal immigration
is a matter of law enforcement.

California's Sen. Dianne Feinstein argues that legal immigration reform will die
if forced to stand on its own. If so, that is because the case for it is weak.

On illegal immigration, few dispute that border enforcement needs to be stepped
up, as both the Simpson and Smith bills would do. Half of illegal immigrants,
however, get here by entering legally on temporary visas and then overstaying
the time limits. The House bill is oblivious to them.

Both bills are too punitive in other respects, denying political asylum to most
of those arriving here to escape persecution.

Oddly for GOP-sponsored bills, both set up more government intrusion, by
requiring federal approval of every new hire. Such bureaucracy, the first step
toward a national ID card, is a high price to pay for the pursuit of illegal
workers.

On legal immigration, the two bills would reduce the current 775,000 annual
ceiling by 20 to 43 percent, a mistake on both economic and social grounds.

One immigrant working in America doesn't equal one fewer job for a citizen.
Immigrants often take work Americans spurn, or start their own businesses. Just
look at downtown San Jose.

Some argue that visas should go to those with needed skills, rather than to
relatives. Certainly, we believe that enough job-related visas should be
allocated to keep America competitive, as Hewlett-Packard's Pete Peterson argues
on this page. But America has benefited with families as the cornerstone of
immigration policy. New immigrants are more likely to succeed if they've got
uncles and sisters to teach, house and help them.

The bills would redefine which family members are eligible to join immigrants
who have preceded them to America. Grown children, siblings and, for practical
purposes, parents could no longer be sponsored on family visas.

Current family policies bring too many distant relatives who too often end up on
welfare, the critics say. But children, even over age 21, aren't distant
relatives. They ought to be eligible to join their parents. A modest reduction,
perhaps by trimming the ability of immigrants to bring their siblings, might be
OK, as long as it does not punish those who applied under the old rules.

As for welfare fraud, a problem that extends beyond immigrants, it should be
dealt with by enforcing the promise, now required of those who bring family
members here, that the new immigrants will not become public charges.

Instead, the Senate bill would cut off even naturalized citizens from welfare
assistance if they fall on hard times.

Voices of fear are tough for Congress to ignore in an election year. But even
so, immigration policy should be based on reality, reason and compassion.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARRIE MAGUIRE
[960320 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 21, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT CRACKDOWN TOUGHENED HOUSE VOTES TO DENY SCHOOL TO ILLEGALS' KIDS

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 796 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The House on Wednesday approved one of the toughest-ever provisions to battle
illegal immigration, ratifying an explosive proposal allowing states to block
schoolhouse doors to children who are unlawfully in the United States.

After an impassioned appeal from House Speaker Newt Gingrich, the measure was
amended to a bill that would make the most sweeping revisions of the nation's
immigration laws in a generation. A final floor vote on the entire reform
package is due today.

Opponents argued that denying public education to illegal-immigrant children is
unconstitutional. Rep. John Bryant, D-Tex., charged that Gingrich's appeal was
designed to provoke a veto from President Clinton, which Republicans would then
use against him in the November election.

"You (promoted) that amendment to make sure that you would win, to make sure you
would have a political issue," Bryant charged.

Bryant's comments came after Gingrich made an unusual appearance in the well of
the House on behalf of the amendment sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard.
Gingrich used California's overwhelming approval of Proposition 187 in 1994 as
evidence of voter support for denying most public benefits to illegal
immigrants.

"This used to be the land of opportunity," said Gingrich. "It's now the land of
welfare."

He called taxpayer-funded education for those here unlawfully an unfair expense
that should no longer be tolerated. The Georgia Republican said free public
education to illegal immigrants is costing California at least $1.7 billion a
year, New York $634 million, Florida $424 million and Texas $419 million.

"If they want to spend it, that's fine," he said. "But for this Congress to say,
'We're going to impose on you this mandate,' is absurd."

Referring to Proposition 187 - the state constitutional amendment that has since
been largely invalidated by the courts - Gingrich said:

"They voted to say they are tired of their taxpayer money" paying for those
benefits. "I think that is a totally legitimate thing to do for the people of
California."

Gallegly's proposal was approved on a 257-163 vote.

"We have to take care of our kids first," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher,
R-Huntington Beach. "We have no apologies about it."

Keep kids in school

Reps. Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat from San Jose, and Tom Campbell, a Republican from
Campbell, both spoke against the amendment, arguing that children - even
illegal-immigrant children - are better off in school than on street corners or
in neighborhoods alone. Campbell was the only California Republican to oppose
the amendment.

The Supreme Court in 1982 struck down a Texas law denying education to illegal
immigrants, and the Justice Department has said there is no difference between
that law and other provisions to deny public education to immigrants.

The education provision - if it survives a conference committee to work out
differences between the House bill and a Senate version - makes it more likely
that Clinton will veto the entire package.

Some House members fumed Wednesday over an 11th-hour White House move to back
away from another part of the immigration package that calls for the most severe
restrictions on legal immigration in 71 years.

White House backs away

Clinton initially supported measures to curb legal immigration. But this week
the administration said it could not support proposed cuts in family-sponsored
and employment-based legal immigration.

Bryant slammed Clinton for that "politically cowardly decision," which he said
was a capitulation to business groups that oppose some of the proposed cuts in
lawful immigration. Silicon Valley companies are among business groups opposing
restrictions on employment-based immigration.

A key vote is expected today to split the immigration bill into two parts: One
dealing with the politically popular moves to combat illegal immigration, and
one for the less palatable legal-immigration cuts. If that happens, as it did in
a Senate committee last week, observers say it would doom reductions in legal
immigration.

Toll-free number

Also on Wednesday, the House rejected an amendment that would have established
mandatory experimental projects in five states, including California, that would
allow employers to check all potential employees' eligibility status by using a
toll-free telephone number.

The bill makes the projects voluntary. Opponents called them a first step toward
a national identification card, certain to lead to discrimination against
minorities. Proponents say no reform can succeed unless illegal immigrants are
kept out of the nation's workplaces .

"American workers will benefit from the quick check system," said Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, the bill's chief author.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HOW THEY VOTED
Here's how Bay Area representatives voted. A "yes" vote is to support the
amendment.
* Yes (hbox) No (dmd) Not voting
* Baker (R)
(hbox) Campbell (R)
(hbox) Dellums (D)
(hbox) Eshoo (D)
(hbox) Farr (D)
(hbox) Lantos (D)
(hbox) Lofgren (D)
(hbox) Pelosi (D)
(dmd) Stark (D)
(hbox) Woolsey (D)Related story [page 1B & 4B]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              21 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 3, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON TRIES 187 FUNDING LOOPHOLE

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 705 words


Squeezing through a narrow window in a federal court decision that kept most of
Proposition 187 from becoming law, Gov. Pete Wilson's administration has taken
steps to bar illegal immigrants from getting state-funded prenatal care or
long-term care in nursing homes.

The state Department of Health Services has filed its papers with U.S. District
Court Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who ruled last fall that 187's
anti-illegal-immigrant provisions could not be applied to programs that involve
federal funds.

But Pfaelzer, whose ruling gutted an initiative that would have required schools
and hospitals to check immigration status before providing services, left open
the possibility that restrictions could be placed on programs that were entirely
state-funded.

The proposed regulations are still a long way from becoming law, but they're a
clear indication of the state's strategy to keep alive a proposition that won
the support of three-fifths of the state's voters in November 1994.

With its latest action, the state is attempting to dismantle a program once
praised by Wilson, who said prenatal care for illegal immigrants was one way to
ensure that the children, who automatically become U.S. citizens when born here,
are healthy.

Now, Wilson believes that prenatal care and long-term care services draw "people
who would not otherwise come here," said Lisa Brandt, chief counsel for the
Department of Health Services.

The exact terms of the state's proposal, which was turned over to Pfaelzer on
Friday, haven't been made public. As part of her ruling last fall, the judge
issued an injunction that bars the state from "disseminating, promulgating or
publishing" the proposed regulations without her permission.

Attorneys for the Mercury News filed a motion to unseal the state's proposed
regulations Tuesday in U.S. Central District Court in Los Angeles. A hearing has
been set for April 29.

The state Attorney General's Office said it favors making the regulations public
and will file a supporting motion. But immigrant advocates said they would like
to see them kept under wraps for a while.

Avoid 'misunderstanding'

"It would be wrong to unseal it at this point," said Mark Rosenbaum, legal
director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. "It
would be inappropriate to unseal it until we are sure that the language (of the
proposed regulations) is clear, that no one will have a misunderstanding about
what this is about.

"We have gotten hundreds of calls based on fears and rumors that state officials
have propagated. It seems incumbent that there not be any false information out
there."

The ACLU is one of several groups whose lawsuit against Proposition 187 led to
Pfaelzer's original ruling.

Rosenbaum also dismissed the state's contention that either prenatal or
long-term nursing home services pull illegal immigrants into California. "If
this governor thinks that people are crossing the border to get prenatal and
long-term care, that has as much credibility as his presidential campaign," he
said.

The state's effort to implement 187 drew praise from Rick Olt man, a Marin
County resident who ran the Yes on 187 - Save Our State Committee.

Not making it easy

"If we don't make it easy for them, fewer will come," he said. "It's another
example of Pete Wilson trying to follow through where the federal government has
given us a problem."

The state spent $67.3 million on prenatal care and $6.4 million for long-term
nursing home care for illegal immigrants in the year ending last June. Spending
on these services, which the Legislature approved in 1988, has declined
recently, said Jack Whitsett, Department of Health Services staff attorney.

The proposed regulations would not affect illegal immigrants who seek emergency
care, including labor and delivery.

Studies indicate, however, that the fine points of what's legal and isn't legal
aren't clearly understood by the immigrants who use public clinics. Although
Proposition 187 has yet to be implemented, research at San Francisco General
Hospital showed that attendance at mental health clinics dropped by a quarter
among Latinos in the six months after the measure was approved.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              22 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 9, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEDERAL BILL COULD REVIVE PROP. 187 MEASURE MAY LET STATES BAR UNDOCUMENTED FROM
SCHOOL

BYLINE: S. L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 980 words


Proposition 187 is stirring with new life.

If federal immigration reforms permit states to bar undocumented immigrant
children from public schools, the Wilson administration plans to use this lever
to seek the reinstatement of the measure denying education and health care to
undocumented immigrants.

Congress could soon grant Gov. Pete Wilson and other supporters of 187 this
potent new legal argument by explicitly giving states powers a federal judge
ruled that California lacked when she suspended implementation of the measure
last year.

The relevant provision is contained in the House version of immigration reform.
A joint House-Senate conference committee will soon convene to resolve
differences between the two measures.

The bill's implications are explosive in this election year, if not fully
understood.

President Clinton badly wants to sign an immigration bill to show he's tough on
the issue - although spokesman Mike McCurry has called the school ban "nutty."
Recognizing the measure's potential political firepower, Sen. Robert Dole, the
presumptive Republican nominee, used his March California campaign swing to
endorse the amendment and attack President Clinton on immigration.

And yet when San Jose Mayor Susan Hammer and Police Chief Lou Cobarruvias joined
other local officials Tuesday to denounce the ban as the unconstitutional twin
of Proposition 187, they appeared not to realize that the measure might actually
bring it back to life.

Passage of the amendment "would open up a whole series of arguments in defense
of 187," said Robert Post, a Boalt Hall School of Law professor.

The Attorney General's Office is mum on strategy, but Wilson is eager to go to
court with the legislation, originally sponsored by Rep. Elton Gallegly,
R-Oxnard.

"By Congress taking a position on all of the elements of Prop. 187, including
the school component, we believe it strengthens our case in court," said Sean
Walsh, the governor's press secretary.

"We love the Gallegly amendment."

Basis for voiding 187

In overturning 187, federal Judge Mariana Pfaelzer cited a Supreme Court case,
Plyler vs. Doe, in which the court said the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal
protection under the law required Texas to educate all children. Texas had tried
to exclude undocumented children from its schools.

Pfaelzer ruled that states can neither regulate immigration - a federal
responsibility - nor limit services for immigrants that the federal government
helps fund. But her ruling allowed states to regulate services the state
underwrites, and those for which Congress has not explicitly claimed
responsibility. The Gallegly amendment would make states' rights over education
explicit.

Although Proposition 187 was passed long before the amendment, several
constitutional scholars agreed that proponents could argue in court that legal
conditions had changed, and so the judge should lift her injunction on
Proposition 187.

Challenge to injunction

Even if the judge didn't lift her injunction, proponents hope the amendment
would set in motion a series of legal moves that could convince the Supreme
Court to overturn Plyler. That would remove the legal underpinning of Pfaelzer's
injunction, and the Wilson administration would then argue she should lift it.

Legal opinions differ about whether the passage of the school ban would achieve
the result Wilson and others desire.

Barnaby Zall, a Washington lawyer who worked on the 1982 Plyler case, said he
thinks the amendment would survive a constitutional challenge. "The Supreme
Court has never held that you couldn't deny these kids a free education," he
said.

Other lawyers believe the opposite.

Educating children

"The equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution does not permit the
government to discriminate against innocent children, when it comes to something
as important as education," said Carlos Holguin, general counsel for the Center
for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles, which is lead counsel in
a suit against Proposition 187.

Mayor Hammer and others believe the amendment is mostly an "election-year ploy"
to win votes by attacking a weak and defenseless group. But ploy or not, it is
definitely a hot election-year issue.

Gallegly's legislation zoomed to prominence in March on the supportive words of
such Republican leaders as House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Majority
Leader Bob Dole. Dole called for the amendment's passage when launching his
California campaign on the U.S.-Mexico border - even though he previously had
voted against a similar measure.

Wide opposition to ban

Democrats on the House-Senate conference committee - which has yet to be fully
named - can be expected to oppose it vigorously, backed by constituents in
pro-immigration campaigns, church groups and teacher unions. President Clinton
has been heavily lobbied by these groups to veto any bill including the school
ban.

Complicating the political picture is strong opposition to the amendment among
law enforcement groups and across the political spectrum. Opponents include
three national police groups, the Los Angeles County sheriff, and police chiefs
from San Diego and Sacramento counties, as well as the Republican mayor of New
York and governor of Texas.

Still, proponents offer no apologies.

Easy access to services such as education attracts illegal immigrants, Gallegly
and his supporters argue. And it's unfair, they argue, to let states carry the
fi nancial burden of caring for illegal immigrants that failed federal border
enforcement allows in the country.

California would save nearly $2 billion if it stopped paying for the education
of these children - enough to hire 44,000 more teachers, Gallegly said.

"If we're going to ask the states to pay the bills, we're going to give the
states that option," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 8, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JESSE JACKSON PRAYS: 'STOP THE VIOLENCE' CITES BEATING OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


The Rev. Jesse Jackson prayed Easter Sunday for an end to violence against
illegal immigrants as a videotaped beating and a deadly crash focused attention
once more on the smuggling of human cargo.

"Easter is about unearned suffering that is redempted," Jackson said in a
telephone interview after leading about 60 people in a "Stop the Violence
Prayer" at a South El Monte nursery.

The nursery was where an 80-mile chase of illegal immigrants crammed into a
truck ended last Monday and two Riverside County sheriff's deputies were
videotaped beating a couple.

"I know that we must have border checks, and with that conflict there must be
due process, but there was no justification for the brutal beating, for the
officers to take the law into their own hands," Jackson said.

The deputies gave chase after the pickup, crammed with at least 19 illegal
immigrants, ran an immigration checkpoint in Temecula.

On Saturday near that same checkpoint, seven presumed illegal immigrants were
killed and 19 injured when the pickup truck the men were riding in overturned as
it was followed by U.S. Border Patrol agents.

"When the driver saw the patrol car, he sped up," Pablo Alonso Maximo said from
his bed at Mission Hospital Regional Medical Center in Mission Viejo. "We yelled
for him to stop, but he kept speeding up."

Four makeshift crosses told of the tragedy in rural Santa Rosa north of
Temecula, in a region marked with citrus and avocado groves. One memorial at the
ditch where the truck landed consisted of rocks in the shape of a cross. Three
other standing crosses were placed amid wreckage.

The injured men on the stolen truck were taken to three hospitals, according to
Riverside County fire officials - Mission Hospital, Inland Valley Medical Center
in Wildomar and Riverside General Hospital.

The two men at Mission Hospital were in satisfactory condition, a nursing
supervisor said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              24 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 19, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

3 S.J. MEN AMONG 20 HELD IN INS RAID ON SMUGGLING

BYLINE: MICHAEL DORGAN, Mercury News San Francisco Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1003 words


Capping a three-year investigation that they say snapped the spine of a major
immigrant smuggling operation, federal law enforcement officials Thursday
announced the arrests of 20 alleged Asian gang members, including three San Jose
men.

They say the arrests, which followed a sealed, four-count indictment issued
Tuesday by a federal grand jury in San Francisco, represent the first time law
enforcement has penetrated the "support system" of sophisticated smuggling rings
that charge would-be Chinese immigrants up to $35,000 each for a perilous
passage to the United States.

"Alien smugglers must be stopped and the heartbreak they cause must be ended,"
Thomas Schiltgen, San Francisco district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said at a news conference. "Today's operation should
serve as a warning that those who traffic in human misery can expect to pay a
heavy price."

The 23 people named in the indictment, three of whom remain at large, are
accused of conspiring to transport and harbor 279 illegal Chinese immigrants who
arrived on California's shore in fishing boats at Moss Landing and Half Moon Bay
in June 1993.

More than 260 of the illegal immigrants were taken into custody at the landing
sites, and 14 others were later picked up at a "drop house" in New York. Most
have been returned to China, although a few have been granted political asylum.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Gruel said the 23 people named in the indictment
unsealed Thursday belong to two Bay Area gangs that were hired by powerful New
York gangs to meet the smuggler's mother ship at sea and transport the illegal
immigrants first to safe houses in South San Francisco, Daly City, Oakland and
Los Angeles, then to New York City.

San Jose suspects

The three San Jose suspects, identified as alleged members of a San
Francisco-based Vietnamese gang, are Quo Van Nguyen, 32; Khoa Anh Trieu, 31; and
Vuong Ba Ngo, 25. Also arrested was a Santa Clara man, Phuong Tran, 33.

It was not immediately clear if they were among the 14 suspects arrested
Thursday or among the six indicted suspects already being held in Bay Area jails
on other charges.

Gruel said the Vietnamese gang was retained to furnish the fishing vessels to
ferry the aliens to shore. Once there, the illegal immigrants were to be turned
over to an Oakland-based Chinese gang that was under contract to provide safe
houses and transportation to New York.

The apparent leader of the Vietnamese gang, 25-year-old John Luong of
Sacramento, was to get $650,000 from several New York-based gangs for bringing
the aliens to shore, according to the indictment.

But the smuggling scheme, which according to the indictment was plotted at a
Santa Clara apartment, quickly went awry.

Federal agents swooped on the fishing boat named "Angel" shortly after it docked
at Moss Landing shortly before dawn with at least 151 illegal Chinese on board.
And when the "Pelican" chugged into Pillar Point Harbor in Half Moon Bay a few
hours later with at least 128 aliens on board, it met the same reception.

The passengers on the Pelican were loaded with lice and packed in the small
hold. The passengers said they had been on the boat for four or five days
without food or water.

Schiltgen said the illegal immigrants were charged $25,000 to $35,000 each for
passage, but few had the money to pay in advance. They were destined to work off
their debts under slave-like conditions at low-paying jobs, including
prostitution.

Several passengers escaped capture. Three days later, according to the
indictment, approximately 19 passengers from the Angel were transported in Ryder
rental trucks to Los Angeles, then flown to New York.

Indictment evidence

Five alleged smugglers, including the captain of the Angel, were arrested in the
initial sweeps. Telephone bills, financial records and other evidence found at
the safe houses led to the subsequent indictments.

At the Santa Clara apartment on Pasetta Drive, neighbors said FBI agents arrived
Thursday morning and took a man and a woman into custody.

"There were many people, coming and going all the time," said one neighbor, who
didn't want her name printed.

Gruel said evidence indicates the Bay Area gangs were hired by several New York
gangs - including the White Tigers, Fuk Ching and the Broom Street Boys - who
were responsible for purchasing the ship and recruiting the would-be immigrants.
Numerous members of those gangs have been arrested in recent years on smuggling
charges.

Noting that four boats full of illegal immigrants were known to land in
California in 1993 but that none has landed since, Michael Yamaguchi, U.S.
attorney for the Northern District of California, said he thinks the three-year
West Coast investigation has had a significant impact.

"We believe we've taken down a major organization," he said of the
investigation, dubbed Operation Sea Dragon.

But other smuggling rings now land their boats in Mexico, then transport their
human cargo across the United States' porous southern border, Schiltgen said.

Small portion

Still, Chinese aliens represent a small portion of illegal immigrants arriving
from the south, 1,700 of whom are arrested each day at San Diego alone, said INS
Western Region Director Gus De La Vina.

If convicted, the alleged gang members indicted this week will face a five-year
prison sentence on each count. But under current sentencing guidelines, they
would serve only 18 to 36 months.

U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., in support of Clinton administration
efforts to end illegal immigration, has introduced legislation that would double
or triple those sentences, and also allow forfeiture of assets in alien
smuggling cases.

"This shows that this administration is committed to combating illegal alien
smuggling," Yamaguchi said. "What we're dealing with here is a crime in which
individuals are subjected to human misery and squalor, and that condition will
not be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer S.L. Bachman contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LACY ATKINS - ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS Western Region Director Gus De La Vina speaks to the media about Thursday's
raid. At left is Thomas Schiltgen, district director.
[960419 FR 24A 3; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 20, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CRIME PROBE WIDENS SMUGGLING SUSPECT INDICTED

BYLINE: BRANDON BAILEY, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 715 words


A key figure indicted this week in a major immigrant-smuggling operation is also
an alleged boss of a criminal organization that authorities have charged with
robbing computer firms around the country and with selling heroin in the Bay
Area and New York.

Johnny That Luong is accused in a federal indictment of leading a gang that
arranged for two fishing boats to bring nearly 300 illegal immigrants ashore on
the San Mateo County coast in 1993.

Two years later, according to a separate indictment unsealed last week, the
Sacramento man was at the head of a criminal group that robbed computer chip
firms in Minnesota, Oregon, San Diego and Sunnyvale. At a news conference last
week, the FBI also accused the group of plotting to import massive quantities of
heroin from Asia.

The smuggling indictment unsealed Thursday also names four other defendants who
have been charged with chip stealing and heroin trafficking in the last three
years. Authorities say this illustrates the interconnected relationships between
those who commit these crimes.

"Once you begin doing these . . . cases, you end up seeing the same faces," said
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Gruel, who is prosecuting the immigrant-smuggling
case. "It's like connecting the dots: you go from one dot to the other."

Luong, 25, is described as one of three bosses in the group accused of chip
stealing and heroin trafficking. In true entrepreneurial spirit, authorities
said he formed a temporary alliance with other gangs to pursue the smuggling
venture.

"The motivation is money, and that's the driving force," Gruel added. "They come
together when there's an opportunity to make money."

Two other men indicted in the immigrant-smuggling case were arrested in San Jose
during a 1994 federal investigation into Asian crime groups. Quoc Van Nguyen and
Vuong Ba "Victor" Ngo have pleaded guilty to conspiring to traffic in heroin and
stolen computer chips. They have not been sentenced.

Nguyen and Ngo were also charged with selling a dozen 9-millimeter handguns
without a firearms license, but those charges were dropped.

Nguyen's name also surfaced in connection with another major chip-stealing case
last year. In an affidavit, FBI Special Agent Michael Sweeney described how
Nguyen and another man met with an undercover officer who was selling stolen
chips.

The affidavits say the two men drove with the officer to Prestige Computer, a
thriving retail store on Stevens Creek Boulevard in San Jose. Prestige owner
Lawrence Wong later was indicted on charges that he ran an illegal gambling
operation and trafficked in stolen chips.

According to the latest indictment, Nguyen helped Luong in 1993 by testing one
of the fishing boats, named Pelican, that brought 128 Chinese immigrants onshore
at Half Moon Bay. When federal agents found the boat, the immigrants said they'd
been packed into its small hold for at least four days without food or water.

Several New York gangs agreed to pay Luong $650,000 in exchange for obtaining
the fishing boats. Authorities say each immigrant was charged at least $25,000
for the trip. Most were expected to work off the fee as prostitutes or low-paid
laborers for the gangs in New York.

Two other men charged in the immigrant-smuggling case also were named in last
week's indictment against the group accused of stealing computer chips and
dealing heroin. It says Ngoc Bich Nguyen and Hoang Ai Le worked for Luong as
"middle men" who surveyed potential targets and recruited gunmen who would pull
off the heists.

Ngoc Bich Nguyen, a 30-year-old Virginia resident, is accused of aiding in the
1993 smuggling operation by purchasing the second boat, named Angel, which
brought 151 illegal immigrants to the docks at Moss Landing. Le's alleged role
in the smuggling was not spelled out.

Last week's indictment accuses Ngoc Bich Nguyen and Le of participating in a
"racketeering enterprise" responsible for dealing in heroin and committing the
robberies in Minnesota, Oregon, San Diego and at Sunnyvale's Aristocrat Inc.

In addition, Nguyen is charged with helping plan an attempted robbery at NEI
Electronics in Blaine, Minn. Le, of Daly City, is charged with helping Luong
distribute 349 grams of heroin in Northern California last February.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              26 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 31, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ADMINISTRATION'S BRIG PLAN UNDER FIRE IMMIGRANTS: POLITICIANS VENT ANGER AS 18
REMAIN HOSPITALIZED.

BYLINE: Matthew Fordahl, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Clinton administration plan to house illegal immigrants at a military brig
came under fire Saturday, a day after criminal border crossers tried to burn the
jail down.

The brig at Miramar Naval Air Station, which began housing immigrant felons
March 14 to ease crowding at federal jails, sustained smoke and water damage in
Friday's fire. Two dozen inmates were injured; 18 remained hospitalized
Saturday.

Republican politicians promised to renew their efforts to keep the alleged
felons off the military base, arguing that the care of the immigrants diverts
services away from the base community.

"If one of my loved ones was in a car crash and I found out there was an illegal
felon being transported in an ambulance and it wasn't available, I think I'd be
pretty upset," said Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-Escondido.

About 10 of the 174 inmates at the brig, protesting what they claim were
inadequate canteen privileges, used an electrical wire to ignite toilet paper,
sheets and mattresses about 12:30 p.m. Friday, officials said.

"This was a group of thugs who seized on something as petty and trivial as
peanuts and a lack of Coca-Cola to set fire and nearly caused the death of many,
many, many people," said U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin, who spearheaded the policy
as the Clinton administration's Southwest border czar.

"These are the kinds of thugs we want to keep in prison," he said. "These are
not the kinds of thugs we want on the streets of the city."

The brig policy was announced last October by Attorney General Janet Reno. It
resulted from more arrests and better identification of felons who cross the
border under the Clinton administration's 15-month-old Operation Gatekeeper
program.

The policy was immediately attacked by Cunningham and other politicians, who
were concerned that housing the immigrants at Miramar could endanger national
security and divert resources from surrounding communities.

"I'm mad," Cunningham said. "This is the reason I didn't want it there in the
first place."

Cunningham toured the brig Saturday afternoon and said the damage was worse than
he expected.

"It's not so much heat damage, but the smoke damage is pretty bad," Cunningham
said. "It was a protest other prisoners got into that turned into a full-scale
kind of event. When the smoke got so bad, it became a survival issue of getting
out."

Bersin said he expects illegal immigrants to be returned to the base as soon as
the water and smoke damage is repaired.

Navy officials have never gone overboard in their support of the project. In a
tersely written statement Friday, a spokesman for Navy Secretary John Dalton
made no promises to reopen the brig.

"The secretary of the Navy is extremely concerned about (Friday's) Miramar
incident and intends to take a very hard look at the entire situation to
determine where we go from here," the statement read.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Republicans like Rep. Duke Cunningham argue that the care of the
immigrants diverts services away from the base community.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              27 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 6, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RENT-A-CHILD SCHEME LETS IMMIGRANTS STAY

BYLINE: Pauline Arrillaga, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Texas


Illegal immigrants are borrowing or renting children as passports into the
United States, taking advantage of a federal policy against incarcerating
families caught crossing the border.

Under a policy in effect for more than a decade, illegal immigrants caught
crossing the border with a minor son or daughter are released into the United
States rather than held at an INS detention center.

Family members provide an address and phone number so they can be notified of a
court hearing. But many give false information and disappear.

Russ Bergeron, an Immigration and Naturalization Service official in Washington,
said the INS feels it is inappropriate to keep families at a detention compound.

The facilities are surrounded by barbed wire and patrolled by guards. Detainees
wear bright orange uniforms and sleep in dormitories, men and women kept
separate. Immigrants charged with crimes also are held there.

In the past five months, immigrants crossing the South Texas border have
admitted borrowing or renting children, INS and Border Patrol agents said.

Agents noticed the problem in December, when the number of families caught
crossing into the United States in the Brownsville area skyrocketed to 88 in
less than one month's time, rising from the usual 10 to 15 a month, said Gus
Garcia, assistant chief of the Border Patrol's Rio Grande Valley sector.

During a temporary change in policy, about 100 children, ranging in age from a
few months to 17 years old, were housed with the women at the detention center,
said Roel Delgado, who oversees the facility. Most were from Central America.

Immigrant advocates who oppose the detention of families said the small number
of children found accompanying people other than their parents showed that the
problem is not widespread.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               September 27, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SWEEP OF THE SOUTH ENDS WITH 4,044 ARRESTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 112 words


More than 4,000 illegal workers were arrested this summer in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's largest enforcement operation in the South in more than
a decade, officials said Tuesday. Of the 4,044 immigrants found working
illegally in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and Tennessee,
more than 3,400 have already been sent back to their native countries under
Operation SouthPAW (Protecting America's Workers), said INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner. The vast majority of the illegal immigrants were Mexican, with the
remainder coming from 44 countries throughout Asia, the Caribbean, Latin
America, Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Meissner
[950927 FR 22A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              December 1, 1995 Friday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

WORKERS ON BUS DETAINED BY INS WATSONVILLE SWEEP TARGETS NURSERIES

BYLINE: LEE QUARNSTROM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 310 words


Eighty-three undocumented workers who had boarded a bus in Watsonville for a
trip up the coast to a job in Half Moon Bay have been detained by immigration
agents and processed for deportation to Mexico.

A spokesman for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service said the workers
possessed fraudulent labor documents. Wednesday morning, they apparently were
waiting to be driven to nurseries in the Half Moon Bay area, where they were
going to work in greenhouses, said Joe Brandon, chief of investigations for the
INS office in San Francisco.

'Ongoing operation'

He said the arrests, by a team of more than 35 INS agents, were "part of a
large, ongoing operation" that led to an earlier raid and arrests at four Half
Moon Bay work sites. Those sites, he said, were operated by Nurserymen's
Exchange Inc., one of the largest wholesale nursery producers in the Bay Area.

Brandon said Watsonville apparently is used "as a staging area to bus workers"
to the San Mateo County coastal community.

The 83 arrested in Watsonville were from Mexico, he said.

Those detained after they had boarded a bus thinking they were going to be
driven to their greenhouse jobs included 43 men and 40 women, Brandon said.

'Job incentive'

"Today's operation is part of a nationwide INS enforcement strategy to remove
the job incentive, which acts as a magnet to lure illegal aliens to the United
States," said Thomas Schiltgen, INS district director.

He said employers may face fines of up to $1,000 apiece for each unauthorized
worker who was not properly verified as being eligible to work in the United
States. Fines for knowingly hiring undocumented workers can run as high as
$2,000 a worker.

A spokeswoman for Nurserymen's Exchange said her company does check
documentation in an attempt to ensure that work ers are in the country legally.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              30 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 5, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CONGRESSMEN HARVEST ANSWERS ON LABOR AVOCADO GROWER REMEMBERS VALUE OF
GUEST-WORKER PROGRAM

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: SATICOY


The most influential congressional voices on immigration reform walked through a
lemon and avocado grove in Ventura County to get a down-to-earth reaction on the
potential impact of immigration legislation.

"You have that responsibility to see what this is going to do to American jobs,
American farmers," said Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, as he walked through the
grove with Texas Congressman Lamar Smith on Friday.

The Californian headed a congressional task force on immigration reform, and
Smith, R-San Antonio, chairs a powerful immigration subcommittee and led GOP
efforts to forge a comprehensive immigration bill.

Gallegly said he and Smith were interested in "the economic effects and the
social effects of reform." The congressmen observed harvesting techniques of
local growers and asked owner Tom Pecht how pending legislation would affect his
work force.

"If we don't have a steady flow of skilled workers, we're going to have
problems," responded Pecht, who depends on farm workers from Mexico and Central
America to maintain and harvest his groves.

Proposed legislation would limit their entry into the country.

"The bracero program was great for us," Pecht said. "When they got rid of it,
they expected our workers to fill the void, but they didn't."

The bracero program, a joint U.S.-Mexican initiative begun in the 1940s, allowed
Mexican farmworkers to temporarily live and work in the United States. It was
halted in 1964.

The judiciary subcommittee on immigration plans hearings next month to discuss
agricultural labor needs, including the possible merits of a new guest-worker
program.

Gallegly said he was still weighing a proposal to split the Republicans' mammoth
immigration reform package in half, creating separate bills for legal and
illegal immigrants.

Although he generally believes that issues concerning illegal immigration should
be handled separately, Gallegly said some aspects of legal immigration are too
intertwined with efforts to halt illegal immigration to be separated.

"My focus has been almost fully on the illegal immigrants," he said. "But you
can't deal with illegal immigration without monitoring legal immigration. I like
the idea of keeping them divided, but they cannot be divided for all things."

Smith supports keeping the entire immigration reform package together.

Whatever is decided, Pecht said, he supports immigration reform.

"Nobody wants illegal labor coming up and sucking the economy dry," he said.
"But we need workers. I check everyone's papers the best I can, but I don't
think anyone can deny that there are a lot of fake papers out there."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              31 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 20, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INDUSTRY NEEDS THE SKILLS OF FOREIGN HIGH-TECH WORKERS

BYLINE: PETE PETERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 273 words


SKILLED foreign workers hired by high-technology companies are small in number -
less than 1 percent of Hewlett-Packard's 60,000 U.S. employees are temporary
foreign workers - and they create jobs in the United States.
When H-P hires Ph.D. engineers, we bring the most advanced research into the
company. When we hire an expert in cutting-edge technology, that worker can lead
a team to make new products, expand our business and create jobs for U.S.
workers. Regardless of nationality, there is a worldwide shortage of candidates
in many specialties.

If immigration reform impedes access to these highly educated and exceptionally
skilled individuals, the United States would lose. They will easily find
positions with overseas competitors. Opportunities for product development,
global competitiveness and job growth will leave with them.

Companies already are required to certify that a qualified U.S. worker is not
available for the job - a process that can take 22 months and cost $15,000 - and
that the immigrant worker will be paid at least as much as a comparable American
worker. If a U.S. candidate is qualified, it is faster and less expensive to
hire that candidate.

Thus, current law already provides incentives to hire American workers. Reform
of business immigration laws to reduce access to the best and the brightest
would undermine rather than promote U.S. job growth while giving a key advantage
to foreign competitors.

Combining legal and illegal immigration in the same bill would set a bad
precedent and could lead to harmful reform of legal immigration when illegal
immigration is the target.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Pete Peterson is a Hewlett-Packard senior vice president and director of
personnel.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              32 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 26, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187-TYPE IDEA DRAWS FIRE IN FLORIDA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 15A

LENGTH: 132 words


A Florida law similar to California's Proposition 187, which would deny health
and education benefits to illegal immigrants, would be a catastrophe for a state
whose economy relies heavily on foreign tourism and trade, state officials said
Thursday. At least two grass-roots organizations in Florida have been collecting
signatures to put a Proposition 187-type measure on the state's ballot in this
November's election. "It basically contradicts the main thrust of our entire
economic development strategy," said Lt. Gov. Buddy McKay, who noted that
international trade has exceeded even Florida's $32 billion tourism industry as
the state's biggest industry. McKay addressed a symposium organized by the U.S.
Attorney's office in Miami on immigration challenges facing Florida.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              33 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 20, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-CLERK ADMITS SELLING FAKE IDS

BYLINE: BILL ROMANO, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 281 words


Caught by hidden video cameras, a former clerk in the San Jose office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service pleaded guilty Monday to selling forged
travel papers, work authorizations and passports to undocumented immigrants.

When U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte asked why he had gotten involved in the
scheme, 31-year-old Gerardo Duenes could not answer, saying that he has tried to
"block" the crime out of his mind.

Outside the courtroom later, Assistant U.S. Attorney Tony West had no such
trouble.

"It's pretty obvious that he was doing it for money. He had lots of debts," said
West.

Duenes sold counterfeit documents to people he met at the South First Street INS
office for $500 to $1,000, according to prosecutors. He also sold them through a
middleman, Octavio Carrazco, who pleaded guilty Monday to one count of fraud.

The Inspector General's Office began investigating Duenes in March 1993 after a
Mexican traveler was stopped in San Jose International Airport with forged
papers, which he said he bought from Duenes.

Duenes admitted making the sale but was allowed to remain on the job with
restricted duties while the investigation continued.

But even knowing authorities were on his tail didn't stop Duenes. Investigators
placed two concealed cameras in the office and caught Duenes forging more
papers, prosecutors said.

Duenes faces a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine when
sentenced Oct. 15. Carrazco could receive probation and a fine.

West said Carrazco made little on the scheme but was involved mainly to help
friends who needed documents. He said Carrazco had cooperated with authorities.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              34 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 12, 1995 Wednesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

ARSON FIRE MASKS BORDER DASH

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A fire started by illegal immigrants charred more than 1,000 acres in eastern
San Diego County, but there were no reports of injuries or damage, fire
officials said.

The blaze was reported Tuesday afternoon in the Marron Valley south of Dulzura,
said Audrey Hagen, spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry. It was
apparently started by border crossers trying to divert Border Patrol agents, she
said.

A Border Patrol spokesman did not immediately have information on arrests in the
area. Illegal immigrant traffic has increased in the eastern county after
officials cracked down on border crossers south of San Diego.

The fire split into two fronts, Hagen said. One was burning south toward Mexico,
while the other was moving east toward Barrett Junction, she said. The fire was
reported to be 25 percent contained.

No homes or businesses were threatened in the fire, which was burning in rugged
terrain about 30 miles east of San Diego, Hagen said. There was no word on when
the fire might be fully contained, she said.

Meanwhile, a smoky, wind-whipped brush fire burned about 1,000 acres on the
Miramar Naval Air Station in San Diego, but there were no reports of injuries or
property damage, fire officials said.

The blaze started about 1 p.m. near the site of a small plane crash on Sunday,
said base spokesman Doug Sayers. It was not known whether the plane crash
contributed to Tuesday's fire, he said.

Smoke forced the closure of state Highway 52 in both directions. The road, which
was reopened at 6 p.m., blocked the flames from homes in Tierrasanta on the
southern side of the highway, Sayers said.

The fire was reported under control at about 5:30 p.m., Sayers said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              35 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 18, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAYBE STATE WILL FINALLY GET SOME HELP ON IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 320 words


The July 12 editorial "Newt's heavy hand" too quickly dismisses Newt Gingrich's
task force recommendations and inappropriately labels the speaker's efforts as
"political."

The task force was bipartisan, and its recommendations reflect the concerns of a
great many citizens, especially hard-working Californians whose taxes fund
benefits for illegal immigrants at the expense of services to legal residents.

California carries 43 percent of the illegal immigration burden for the entire
nation - more than any other state. Our taxpayers are forced to shoulder the
cost of providing federally mandated services to illegal immigrants that draw
even more illegals over our borders. And the resulting attraction threatens to
bankrupt our state.

From 1988 to 1996, the cumulative cost of providing health care to illegals will
be over $2 billion. And that cost estimate represents only a fraction of the
total cost. Cost projections for fiscal year 1995-'96 include over $400 million
for Medi-Cal health services, $1.7 billion to educate illegal immigrant children
in our public schools, and over $500 million for the cost of illegal immigrants
in our correctional facilities or on parole.

After years of pleading with Washington to take action, California was finally
forced to sue the federal government to reimburse our taxpayers for the cost of
providing services to illegals. Proposition 187 was a desperate cry for help
from Californians. The voters of this state - and this country - are fed up with
the crush of illegal immigrants draining our resources.

We in California commend Congress for proposing concrete solutions to the
illegal immigration crisis, instead of just offering window-dressing as the
Clinton administration has done. It's about time.

- Sandra R. Smoley
State Health and Welfare Agency
Sacramento@2 DRAWING: JEFF MacNELLY - CHICAGO TRIBUNE

[950718 ED 6B 2]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              36 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 24, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE TAKING STATEMENTS IN PROP. 187 TRIAL EDUCATION BAN ANALYZED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The first trial of Proposition 187 has begun - on paper - with economists,
immigrants, immigration experts and educators dueling over the impact of barring
illegal immigrants from public schools.

In proceedings before a San Francisco Superior Court judge, 42 witnesses,
including the last four state school superintendents, have submitted their first
round of written statements as a substitute for courtroom testimony. Each will
now be questioned by opposing lawyers, and a few witnesses may appear in court
this fall.

The case, which involves only Proposition 187's ban on public education of
illegal immigrants, has been noteworthy so far for a striking difference in the
approaches taken by immigrant rights groups and the state.

Costs of educating

State officials defending the initiative, led by Gov. Pete Wilson, have devoted
their entire case to the testimony of nine economists on the costs of illegal
immigration to California and its schools.

The 33 witnesses presented by opponents of the measure are far more varied -
immigrant parents, local and state school officials, immigration scholars, a
police officer. They seek to put a human face on the issue while offering their
own statistics, such as the costs of expelling more than 300,000 students.

The trial's outcome is not in much doubt, at least at this level.

Superior Court Judge Stuart Pollak ordered school officials not to enforce
Proposition 187 after it passed in November, relying on a 1982 U.S. Supreme
Court ruling that required Texas to maintain public education for all residents
regardless of immigration status. He's unlikely to lift his order, despite the
state's argument that illegal immigrants are a far greater burden on
California's schools than they were in Texas.

No proof of burden

But Pollak's factual conclusions, based on the testimony, could be crucial for
Wilson's hopes of ultimately persuading the high court to overturn its ruling
and uphold the California ban. The 1982 ruling found that Texas had not shown a
severe financial burden or any other legitimate justification for denying
education to illegal immigrants.

Nearly all of Proposition 187 is being blocked while courts consider its
legality. Bans on social services and non-emergency health care, and a
requirement to report suspected illegal immigrants to federal authorities, face
a federal court hearing Wednesday in Los Angeles that could strike them down
without a trial.

State schools chiefs testify

Written testimony against the public school ban includes statements by state
school Superintendent Delaine Eastin and her three immediate predecessors,
William Dawson, Bill Honig and Wilson Riles.

"A decision to limit the education of our children is a decision to limit the
productivity of your own society," Eastin said.

Clare Brindis, director of the Center for Reproductive Health Policy Research at
the University of California, San Francisco, warned of a health disaster if
illegal immigrant children are denied preschool immunizations and in-school
tuberculosis screening.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              37 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 27, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 DEBATED IN HEARING JUDGE APPEARS SKEPTICAL OF STATE'S REASONING ON LAW

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Proposition 187 sends a message to suspected illegal immigrants - "Go to the
border and get out" - that may exceed the state's authority, a federal judge
said Wednesday. But she did not rule immediately on the measure's validity.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who issued an injunction last December
barring enforcement of most of the initiative passed the previous month, heard
two hours of arguments on whether she should rule 187 unconstitutional without a
trial.

While appearing skeptical of some of the state's arguments in defense of the
measure, Pfaelzer did not indicate her view of the constitutional issues and
said only that she would rule in "the very near future." If she leaves all or
parts of 187 intact, enforcement will remain blocked until after a trial
tentatively scheduled for September.

Proposition 187, approved by 59 percent of the voters, would deny public
education, social services and non-emergency health care to illegal immigrants.
State and local agencies that encountered "reasonably suspected" illegal
immigrants would have to report them to the federal govern ment and tell them to
obtain legal status or leave.

Goals disputed

The hearing focused on the two sides' conflicting views of the central purpose
of Proposition 187. The initiative's purpose holds the key to its
constitutionality.

Opponents' strongest hope to overturn the entire initiative is an argument that
it is an attempt to control immigration, an area regulated exclusively by the
federal government.

If that argument fails, individual provisions of 187 may still be vulnerable -
particularly the ban on public education, which appears to conflict with a 1982
Supreme Court ruling. The bans on public schooling and public higher education
for illegal immigrants are being argued separately before a San Francisco
Superior Court judge.

The state says the initiative was chiefly intended to protect Californians'
pocketbooks.

"The main concern is dealing with free public benefits to illegal aliens," said
Deputy Attorney General Donald Cole.

In her injunction last December, which stopped short of a conclusive ruling on
constitutionality, Pfaelzer said portions of 187 appeared to be a "scheme to
regulate immigration." Immigrant-rights lawyers stressed that argument
Wednesday.

'Equivalent to deportation'

"This law was about stopping illegal aliens, as they put it, from coming into
this country, and the state is not allowed to do that," said American Civil
Liberties Union lawyer Mark Rosenbaum.

Rosenbaum also said the notice that state and local officials must send to
suspected illegal immigrants, telling them to obtain legal status or leave the
country, was "equivalent to a deportation." Pfaelzer appeared to agree.

Cole said he saw no such message in the initiative. But he said any apparent
disparities with federal law could be resolved by future state regulations.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              38 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 29, 1995 Friday STOCK FINAL EDITION

HOUSE BILL WOULD LIMIT POWER OF JUDGES OVER REFERENDUMS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


No single judge could hold up state referendums, according to a bill passed by
the House in reaction to a court order that blocked California from denying aid
to illegal immigrants.

The bill was sponsored by Rep. Sonny Bono, R-Palm Springs, and strongly backed
by other California Republicans unhappy with the single-judge rejection last
year of the state's Proposition 187. The referendum denied education, social and
non-emergency health services to illegal immigrants.

"We had about 5 million Californians overridden by one judge," said Rep. Randy
Cunningham, R-Escondido. "We're just saying that that's wrong and we'd like to
make sure that doesn't happen again."

The bill, HR 1170, passed 266-159. It requires three-judge panels in federal
reviews of state referendums. It also allows for appeals against injunctions to
go directly to the Supreme Court, bypassing the federal Court of Appeals.

Nine California Republicans spoke in favor of the bill. One California Democrat,
Rep. George Miller, D-Pleasant Hill, opposed it, saying the popular referendum
was "the most manipulative process because usually it's bankrolled by tens of
millions of dollars by people who want to change the rules of the game."

Most Democrats opposed the legislation, arguing that it would be costly and
cumbersome and would give referendums priority over legislation passed by state
legislatures when it came to judicial review.

"The crux of the complaint is about the fact that the citizens of California
wanted to overrule the Constitution when it came to Proposition 187," said Rep.
Pat Schroeder, D-Colo. Bono's bill, she said, is "like shooting flies with an
automatic weapon."

Bono argued that his bill would stop "judge shopping," or efforts by opponents
of an initiative to find a judge who supports their view.

Schroeder offered an amendment that narrows the bill to the issue of judge
shopping by stating it would apply only in court districts where judges are not
selected randomly. It was defeated 248-177.

The bill, which still must be considered by the Senate, would apply only to
future referendums, and not Proposition 187. That referendum was approved by 59
percent of Californians last November, but the next month a U.S. district court
judge issued an injunction to stop its enforcement.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              39 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 10, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SILICON WALL IDEAS FOR CATCHING ILLEGALS WOULD SNARE LEGAL WORKERS, TOO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 294 words


BY now, Americans have heard of the low-tech non-solution for illegal
immigration: Build a Tortilla Curtain along the border with Mexico. But here's a
high-tech one: A computerized data base for checking on immigrant workers.

In theory, it's as smooth as silicon. In practice, it's garbage in, garbage out.

Here's how the idea works: An immigrant applicant for a job gives his alien
identification number. The employer, after deciding to hire him, calls the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to check the number. Within seconds, a
gizmo something like a credit-card machine verifies if the immigrant is
authorized to work.

It's designed to flag illegal immigrants with phony documents. But when the INS
tested the system three years ago, it had a 19 percent error rate. The problem
was that human errors - keypunch mistakes and missing immigration files -
poisoned the As
author Glenn Garvin wrote in Reason magazine recently, "An 81 percent success
rate is pretty good if you're shooting basketball free throws. It's abysmally
low when you're playing with people's lives."

Even if the INS could perfect the system, there is a big loophole in it. If
immigrants identify themselves as citizens, they won't be checked. That already
happens, and the only way to get around it is to develop a Social Security data
base for everyone, citizens as well as immigrants.

The INS isn't proposing checking Social Security numbers for everyone, but some
influential congressmen are pushing that.

Any INS verification system should be speedy, limited in scope, and relatively
free of error.

The ideas under discussion not only will fail to solve current problems but will
also create new ones for legitimate workers, citizens as well as immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              40 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 24, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SCHOOLS CHIEF ENTERS PROP. 187 FRAY HEARING: ATTORNEY FOR EASTIN'S OFFICE CALLS
IT 'MORALLY REPUGNANT' FOR SCHOOLS TO EXPECT STUDENTS TO INFORM ON EACH OTHER.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


An attorney for state schools chief Delaine Eastin on Monday tried to undercut a
lawyer from the state Attorney General's Office as the office implored a federal
judge to save as much of Proposition 187 as possible.

Eastin, a former East Bay state assemblywoman, has been a vociferous opponent of
the anti-illegal-immigrant initiative from the start. But the appearance by an
attorney from her office represented the first time that another state lawyer
had entered the courtroom to challenge Attorney General Dan Lungren's office
over 187, passed by voters last November.

Janet McCormick, deputy general counsel for the state superintendent of public
instruction, told U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer that Eastin's office
found "morally repugnant the notion of a schoolhouse as a place" where students
would inform on each other and their parents.

McCormick was alluding to a section of Proposition 187 requiring that school
districts report children suspected of being illegal immigrants to the state
superintendent of public instruction, the state Attorney General's Office and
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. Under the initiative, parents
and guardians who are suspected of being illegal immigrants also must be
reported.

"Deportation is not the business of the public schools," McCormick told
Pfaelzer.

Not only did McCormick recommend that the judge delete the section of 187
pertaining to public schools she also urged that Pfaelzer trash the entire
measure.

Pfaelzer had called Monday's hearing to hear arguments on the issue of
"severability" - that is, whether the rest of 187 would take effect if parts of
it are ruled unconstitutional. She did not indicate Monday when she would rule.

Passed by 59 percent of the vote, the measure would prohibit illegal immigrants
from getting a publicly funded education, non-emergency health care or social
services. Hospitals, medical clinics and social service agencies, as well as
schools, would be required to report suspected illegal immigrants.

Senior Assistant Attorney General John Sugiyama, whose job is to defend all
parts of 187, seemed flustered and taken aback by McCormick's comments. He also
seemed peeved that Pfaelzer had allowed her to speak before he was allowed to
respond to arguments made by the small army of lawyers representing the
measure's opponents.

"There has been a realignment" in the case, Sugiyama said, telling the judge
that it was unusual for another state lawyer to be speaking for the opponents of
a voter-approved measure.

After the hearing, McCormick vigorously defended her office's cameo appearance
in the continuing legal drama over 187.

"It seemed dishonest for us to be sitting silently by" while the Attorney
General's Office fought to salvage as much of the initiative as possible. "We
simply disagree with that notion," she said.

Regarding the severability issue, attorneys for immigrants rights groups argued
that the measure is hopelessly flawed because its provisions are intrinsically
linked. Sugiyama contended that many parts of the initiative can stand on their
own - and that it was Pfaelzer's obligation to effect the will of the voters.

Pfaelzer agreed with him. "I'm bound to uphold this to the extent . . . that I
can," she said. "But I have to think about it practically."

The judge ended the afternoon hearing abruptly without indicating when she would
rule on a request by the opponents to dismiss 187 without a trial on grounds it
pre-empts the federal authority to control immigration.

Ron Prince, one of the authors of Proposition 187, said he didn't hear anything
new at the hearing. "It seems that the lawyers were just getting into a lot of
campaign issues," said Prince, head of the Save Our State Committee in Orange
County.

Then he issued a not-so-subtle threat. If Pfaelzer kills all or most of the
initiative, Prince said, his group will offer a $10,000 reward for any
information revealing whether the judge ever hired illegal immigrants. Asked if
he had any evidence now, he replied, "No."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              41 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 25, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EMPLOYERS OF ALIENS WILL BE EXPOSED

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 344 words


The Oct. 10 editorial "Silicon wall: Ideas for catching illegals would snare
legal workers, too" missed a couple of important points.

Everybody who wants to see a system that will verify the eligibility to work of
new employees wants it to apply to all workers, not just immigrants. The current
flawed employer sanctions system applies to all new hires, and that is what new
legislation would do. Therefore, it is not correct that an illegal alien would
be able to circumvent the system by claiming to be an American citizen.

Second, the Immigration and Naturalization Service tests of call-in verification
did not have a 19 percent "error rate," as you said, unless you define that to
include those cases when the call-in system was unable to verify the eligibility
to work, and a separate document verification effort was required.

Your terminology implies that 19 percent of foreign-born new hires lost their
jobs because of flaws in the INS system. That simply is not so. By law,
verification does not take place until after hiring has taken place. So, the
employee already has the job until the INS advises whether the hiring action is
legal or violates the 1986 law.

Finally, what an effective work eligibility verification system will do is make
life easier for employers who want to comply with the law. Now they are caught
in the difficult position of being fined for discrimination if they are too
demanding in their requests for the applicant's documents or being fined if they
are too lax.

With verification, it will become much easier to identify those employers who
are deliberately hiring illegal aliens to exploit them as a source of cheap
labor. It will also make it much more difficult for an illegal worker to find a
job, which should lead to the U.S. job market becoming much less of a magnet for
illegal immigrants, whether they come across the border illegally or enter the
country legally and then violate their status by taking a job and remaining
here.

- John L. Martin
Center for Immigration Studies
Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 5, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER CROSSERS MOVING ALONG NEW FOCUS: AFTER SUCCESSES IN THE IMPERIAL BEACH
AREA, OPERATION GATEKEEPER SHIFTS ATTENTION TO A RISING PROBLEM IN EAST SAN
DIEGO COUNTY.

BYLINE: Ernest Sander, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Often in the last 15 years, Susan Moore would look out at her back yard and see
illegal immigrants - sometimes dozens at a time - sprinting through the brush on
their way to work and families.

But over the past year, the flow has dwindled.

These days, residents are more rankled by Border Patrol agents zooming back and
forth in their shiny white-and-green trucks.

"I saw (an illegal immigrant) yesterday," said Moore, 26, who co-owns horse
stables. "I'm surprised he got as far as he did. The Border Patrol was right on
him. They've got it pretty much knocked down to nothing."

Thirteen months ago, the Clinton administration unveiled Operation Gatekeeper,
pledging to retake the United States-Mexico border at San Diego - one of the
world's most well-trodden highways of illegal immigration - bit by bit.

The first campaign would be the 5-mile Imperial Beach area, a slice of land cut
by a river that flows into the Pacific Ocean, and a primary artery for illegal
crossers into the United States. The federal government's chief tactics would be
more agents and high technology.

The $46 million federal initiative is one piece of an extraordinary national
debate on both legal and illegal immigration that has drawn great attention to
the San Diego border over the past 12 months.

Historically, that 5-mile stretch has accounted for 25 percent of all
apprehensions along the entire 2,000-mile Southwest border.

Pushing crossers southeast

When Operation Gatekeeper was announced, federal officials vowed to so frustrate
illegal crossers that they either give up or move east into more treacherous,
unforgiving terrain where agents stood a better chance of catching them.

On that score, Gatekeeper has at least partially succeeded. Illegal crossers say
getting through Imperial Beach has never been more difficult. Immigrant
smugglers have jacked up their prices to reflect the new market conditions.

At Goat Canyon, Smugglers Canyon and the Gravel Pit - popular Tijuana staging
grounds for illegal crossers - Border Patrol agents parked in their trucks
appear almost bored by the lack of activity.

Skylights, night vision scopes and ground sensors have helped. Agents, including
more than 400 added since the initiation of Gatekeeper, track illegal immigrants
by air, land and sea in helicopters, trucks and boats.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service insists the federal initiative's
message of deterrence is filtering deep into Mexico, to Oaxaca, Michoacan and
other states with large out-migration to the United States.

"The progress we are making is that we are teaching people not to come and
changing their attitudes," said Robert Bach, a senior policy maker with the INS.

But critics claim Gatekeeper isn't changing any attitudes. Instead, they say
it's forcing the illegal immigrants and their smuggler-guides to forage for new
routes, new drop points and new fence holes.

Bolstering that position are reports from the back country in east San Diego
County, where residents tell of being overrun by immigrants.

Activity rises elsewhere

So while arrests in Imperial Beach fell 36 percent in the last year as crossers
apparently got the message, at the eastern end of the 66-mile San Diego sector
they shot up 1,800 percent. The INS has promised to add 100-plus agents in the
eastern part of the county before the end of the year.

"The bottom line seems to be that the Border Patrol has demonstrated it can push
people farther east," said University of California, Davis labor economist
Philip Martin. "What's not clear is whether the number and characteristics of
those people have changed."

While admitting Gatekeeper is draining their spirit and finances, crossers say
it has not sapped their desire to reach the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Border Patrol agent Ted Robinson surveys the Tijuana River area of Imperial
Beach, looking for illegal immigrants.
[951105 CA 3B]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 7, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 WINS EVEN IF IT LOSES IN COURT MEASURE HAS DONE MORE THAN BACKERS
EXPECTED

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1198 words


In the final days of the Proposition 187 campaign, the streets of the Golden
State were filled with eardrum-piercing rage. In downtown San Jose, an estimated
10,000 protesters hoisted signs reading "187 Today, Gas Chambers Tomorrow" and
"Pete Wilson for Fuhrer."

The noise died down once the Silent Majority voted to deny illegal immigrants a
host of government benefits, but emotions still run high a year later, as a
federal judge considers whether to strike down the measure.

Whether or not that happens is largely irrelevant, though. Supporters of 187
have already won the day.

"The main message was to get the federal government off their butts to solve the
problem of illegal immigration - and it worked," said Marin County's Rick
Oltman, who headed the Northern California "Save Our State" committee. "If the
feds move fast enough, 187 will become moot."

And the initiative has done far more than generate action on illegal
immigration. It has started a national debate on legal immigration. A tough new
bill addressing both types of immigration is moving through Congress. In the
process, California's image has undergone radical transformation.

Former Colorado Gov. Richard Lamm, a maverick Democrat who was interested in
immigration issues long before they became a national obsession, says 187
prompted Americans to reconsider their attitudes toward all immigration by
raising the issue of how to divvy up resources fairly.

"I come at this from a liberal standpoint," said Lamm, who believes in both
universal health care and the strict rationing of it.

"There's no way to cover America's poor people if we have to cover Mexico's poor
people, too," he said. "The price of compassion is restriction. If you're going
to serve everybody, you're going to serve nobody."

Motivating factors

That attitude underlies a bill approved last month by the House Judiciary
Committee that would build new border fences and beef up the Border Patrol,
create a computerized verification program for employment in California and four
other states - and eventually reduce the annual number of legal immigrants from
roughly 800,000 to 585,000. "This is a heavyweight, no-nonsense immigration bill
- the antithesis of 187, which was a grass-roots drafting job and reflected it,"
said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform (FAIR).

And under provisions in the welfare-reform bill recently passed by the House and
Senate, newcomers could get virtually no help from Uncle Sam until they become
citizens - a minimum five-year wait. Even then, they might have to pay taxes for
years to qualify for benefits.

The national debate that followed Proposition 187 didn't play out the way most
political soothsayers thought. The common wisdom was that 187 look-alikes would
quickly appear on the ballots of other states impacted by illegal immigration.
That never happened, in part because GOP governors in states with large
immigrant populations lined up against copycat 187s. Most decried the idea of
requiring school districts and health clinics to report suspected illegal
immigrants.

Some of 187's co-authors say they discouraged people in other states from
carrying out similar campaigns.

"I told them that I didn't think it was necessary - and I think I was right,"
said Harold Ezell, a former Western regional commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Ezell reasoned that one of the main goals of 187 was to get the U.S. Supreme
Court to reassess its 5-4 decision in 1982 allowing children who are in the
country illegally to attend public schools. With the legal challenge of 187,
that goal has now been accomplished, he said.

The people who pushed 187 rarely talked about legal immigration during the
campaign - except to praise it as a noble alternative to illegal immigration.
They say this wasn't misleading.

Legal immigrants opposed

"The initiative was aimed at preventing illegal immigration, so that's what we
focused on," said Barbara Coe of Huntington Beach, chairwoman of the California
Coalition for Immigration Reform. But that didn't mean most members of her group
didn't want to put a stop to legal immigration as well, she added.

"I have nothing but contempt for the people who want to move here and suck up
SSI and Medi-Cal," she said. "If people here want to be reunited with their
family, they should go home and be responsible people in their own countries."

Such sentiment not only launched a revolution but also transformed the nation's
perception of California 180 degrees, said Frank Sharry, director of the
National Immigration Forum.

"For most of the '70s and '80s, California was viewed as cutting-edge, a seat of
hope and optimism," he said. "Between 187 and the affirmative action debate,
it's becoming better known as the seat of nastiness."

In Los Angeles, the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights will mark 187's
one-year anniversary Wednesday with the release of a report documenting 229
incidents of discrimination, civil rights violations, hate speech and hate
crimes in California in the past year.

In one case over the July Fourth weekend, the organization said, an
immigrant-rights attorney in Los Angeles received hate mail that superimposed
her face on a target, with "open fire" scrawled over it. The letter called the
woman, an Irish-American who is married to a Latino, "Latina scum." Across the
top of the page it warned that "187 will be enforced."

In September in Pacoima, the outside walls of a Latino family's apartment were
plastered with the words "Go Back to Mexico."

"It's humiliating, Mississippi-era type stuff," said the coalition's Bobbi
Murray.

Reports shrugged off

Many Proposition 187 proponents pooh-pooh the reports, contending they are often
politically motivated.

"You can always find these anecdotal cases," said Ira Mehlman, FAIR's spokesman
in Los Angeles. "They may or may not have happened with or without 187."

The answer, he said, is vigorous enforcement of existing civil rights laws.
"There should be zero tolerance for that kind of thing," he said. "But at the
same time, people in this country illegally should be held accountable for
having violated the law."

The upside of 187, Latino activists say, is that it made them aware of the need
to encourage more Latinos to become citizens. Clearly, that has worked.
Citizenship applications have skyrocketed across the state.

Yet at the same time, Francisco Serna, community liaison for the city of Santa
Cruz, said he's heard of some families leaving Hispanic neighborhoods, such as
Beach Flats, and moving back to Mexico. Some of it is attributed to the poor job
market, he said, but he's also seen evidence of Latinos returning home because
"187 sent the message that they weren't wanted here."

Armando, a 37-year-old Santa Cruz construction worker who is here illegally,
said that for weeks after 187 passed, he was afraid to work because he worried
that contractors would report him to the INS. Eventually, the fear subsided, but
he still fears that some day 187 will be enacted.

"It's getting better now," he said. "But you wonder if anything will happen."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Jeordan Legon contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERCURY NEWS FILE PHOTOGRAPH
Several hundred anti-Proposition 187 protesters marched along Senter Road in San
Jose before the vote.
[951107 FR 7A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              44 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RULING ADDS FUEL TO PROP. 187 DEBATE;
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES SEEM MORE ENTRENCHED THAN EVER IN THEIR
POLARIZED POINTS OF VIEW.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON AND CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 736 words


A federal judge's repeal of most of Proposition 187 appears to have widened the
gaping schism among Californians over the issue of undocumented immigration.

People who supported the initiative generally were outraged by the decision,
calling it an affront to the 59 percent of California voters who acted last
November to bar illegal immigrants from public schools and access to most public
services.

Undocumented immigrants and their supporters, meanwhile, felt vindicated by the
ruling. Following fears that Proposition 187 would lead to greater mistreatment,
they were heartened to learn that it may never take effect.

Whatever side South Bay residents interviewed Tuesday took, they shared one
thing in common: They seemed more entrenched than ever in their polarized points
of view.

"This is one issue I don't think we're ever going to see eye to eye on," said
Sonia Rivera, 26, an undocumented Mexican immigrant who has lived in San Jose
for seven years. "The people who want 187 will get angrier at us because of this
judge. And we'll get angrier at them for fighting to keep this law."

While 76-year-old Joseph Vierira sipped coffee Tuesday afternoon with his
buddies outside Nordstrom in San Jose's Valley Fair Shopping Center, he wondered
why he even bothered casting a ballot in last year's election.

As part of the three-fifths majority of state voters who approved Proposition
187 last year, Vierira was appalled by a federal court's decision that struck
down most of the provisions of the initiative.

"I don't know what's happening to this country," said Vierira, of Santa Clara.
"Five million people voted for it, and one judge comes along and throws it out."

"Yeah, what good is voting then?" added his friend, Steve Esposito, 89, of San
Jose.

A very different discussion was taking place at public health clinics such as
the Family Health Foundation of Alviso. Employees of the clinic, which provides
services to many low-income Hispanic immigrants, had turned their annual
Thanksgiving lunch into a celebration of the judge's ruling.

"We're feeling good today," clinic Vice President Roy Jimenez said. "This is
something that we've been trying to defeat from the very beginning."

Yolanda Pacheco, 28, a patient and undocumented Mexican immigrant, said the
judge's decision afforded her peace of mind.

"I've been worrying since it passed that they would throw my kids out of school
if they discovered they were illegal," said the mother of three.

But others who voted for the proposition, such as Samantha Serpa, a 29-year-old
single mother in San Jose, are more worried that illegal immigration is taking
too great a toll on the education of children who are citizens. With a son in
preschool, Serpa said, she's watched with concern as more and more resources
have gone toward teaching English to Spanish-speaking children.

"How can we provide for the future if we can't provide for U.S. children?" she
asked. "Our children are suffering now because of all this. And Washington
hasn't gotten the message. They're turning their backs on this. The proposition
just gave us false hope that things would change."

There still was confusion in both camps Tuesday about the significance of the
judge's ruling. Most seemed to think that U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer's
72-page decision was just the beginning of a fight they expect will go to the
Supreme Court.

David Schoen, 42, of Fremont called the court decision despicable. He said the
proposition should have been implemented as soon as voters approved it.

"Proposition 187 showed that people should either become citizens or should go
the hell back to where they come from," he said.

The salesman sounded disgusted as he decried the clout illegal immigrants have
gained.

"Just look at how we celebrate Cinco de Mayo as if it were an American
celebration," he said. "It should not be celebrated in California. It's a waste
of taxpayers' money."

The frustration in Schoen's voice also could be heard in that of Reymundo
Segovia, 44, of Gilroy, an undocumented laborer.

He said he was fed up with "hypocrites" who lambasted undocumented immigrants,
then hired them because they were a source of cheap labor.

"This law has given people permission to hate us," he said. "The judge did a
good thing in throwing it away, but she can never take away the racism that has
come our way because of this law."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               November 22, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEYOND PROP. 187 THROWING IT OUT WAS EASY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 476 words


NOW is the time for Californians to set aside the harsh rhetoric and bad
feelings over illegal immigration and start looking for real solutions to the
problem. A good way to begin is by understanding why a federal judge threw out
most of Proposition 187 on Monday.

It's hard to imagine another judge, liberal or conservative, doing differently.

Writing in Los Angeles, federal district Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer didn't break
any new legal ground in her ruling. She saw that most of 187 clashed with
federal laws and the U.S Constitution, and she felt the evidence was so clear
that the issue didn't deserve a full-blown trial.

For example, not educating undocumented children was declared unconstitutional
14 years ago. Even the people who wrote Prop. 187 have admitted that. So when
Pfaelzer threw out 187's ban on educating these children, it was a legal slam
dunk. Similarly, on the provision banning health care for the undocumented,
Judge Pfaelzer cited a federal law that requires hospitals receiving federal
funds to accept anyone in medical need, regardless of their legal status.

But Pfaelzer really pulled the plug on 187 by ruling that it amounted to a
scheme to regulate immigration. While acknowledging the frustration many
Californians expressed about the leaky border with Mexico, she ruled that
enforcing immigration law is a federal responsibility; social workers, teachers
and others could not be expected to judge whether someone is here legally or
not, as 187 required them to do.

So without the powers to ferret out illegal immigrants, without a ban on
educating their children, without a ban on giving them most health care - what's
left of Proposition 187?

Not much. Judge Pfaelzer left open the possibility of withholding services
funded only with state dollars, or access to public colleges. But let's face it,
illegal immigrants don't come here to attend UC Berkeley, any more than most
come here to get on the dole. They come here to work.

If all Prop. 187 was meant to do was send a message to Washington, it succeeded.
Congress is considering some 187-style crackdowns, and even reductions in aid to
legal immigrants.

All these proposals miss the point. For all of 187's restrictions on public
services for illegal immigrants, it said nothing about their jobs. Any solution
to illegal immigration has to address employment in an America that, to be
honest about it, has become dependent on immigrant labor that is cheap and
easily exploited.

Unfortunately, Monday's court ruling now will be appealed, keeping the argument
over Proposition 187 alive. We wish instead that it could be put aside, along
with the anger it has generated on both sides, and replaced with a level-headed
public dialogue on the issue of illegal immigration - a terribly complex problem
that won't be fixed with simple measures.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 24, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROPOSITION 187 WAS SLOPPILY WRITTEN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 16B

LENGTH: 347 words


Although not at all surprised by Judge Mariana Pfaelzer's ruling that
Proposition 187 is largely unconstitutional, I am very surprised at the outrage
being expressed by the proposition's supporters. Did they honestly think they
had a chance?

I am neither attacking nor condemning the presence of illegal aliens in
California or those who want to do something about it. I'm just pointing out
that Proposition 187 was a sloppy and unprofessional piece of legislation that
never should have been put before the voters. If the California Legislature
wanted to do something with real impact on immigration, it could easily have
done a better job.

Proposition 187 flagrantly violates the U.S. Constitution, the Constitution of
California and court precedents. These violations are serious enough to be
obvious to anyone with even a passing acquaintance with relevant law, including
those who crafted the proposition and those who sold it to the voters.

The shortcomings of Proposition 187 are so obvious, in fact, that I doubt the
sincerity of those who wrote and sold it. I believe they wanted to give the
appearance of doing something about illegal immigration without changing the
status quo. It is important to remember that some of California's key
industries, significant contributors to political campaigns, rely heavily on
illegal immigrants as a source of inexpensive labor.

If the legislators and citizens of California feel so strongly that illegal
immigration is a problem, they have ample room within the bounds of the
constitutions to take vigorous corrective action. They could improve enforcement
of existing laws penalizing those who employ illegal aliens, they could deny
benefits to aliens based, as Judge Pfaelzer wrote, "'on federal determinations
of status made by the INS,"' and they could continue action against the federal
government to uphold its responsibilities under immigration law.

I encourage the backers of Proposition 187 to try again to fix what they see as
a serious problem. But this time, do it legally.

- Jim Dugan
Santa Clara

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              47 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 1, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON SEEKS REVIEW OF RULING ON SCHOOL BAN

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 123 words


Gov. Pete Wilson and Attorney General Dan Lungren urged a federal judge in Los
Angeles on Thursday to reconsider a ruling that barred the state from trying to
keep illegal immigrants out of public schools. In a decision last week, U.S.
District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer overturned most sections of Proposition 187, a
1994 ballot measure that attempted to deny public services to undocumented
immigrants. Pfaelzer said that applicants can't be questioned about their
immigration status when they apply to attend public schools or receive health
and welfare benefits. Lungren and Wilson said the state deserved a chance to
prove that 187's restrictions on education would not violate the federal
Constitution's Equal Protection Clause.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              48 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 4, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE WRONG REFORM BILL ATTACKS ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION - AND LEGAL, TOO

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 374 words


A sweeping immigration bill is racing through the House of Representatives, and
it's a prime example of politicians tackling an important issue in a messy and
emotional hurry.

It's sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, a Republican who's out of step with
the Lone Star state's optimistic view of its relationship with Mexico. The
biggest problem with Smith's bill, HR 2202, is that it lumps illegal immigration
with legal immigration.

Illegal immigration certainly is an immediate problem. Even illegal immigrants
know that. Given their druthers, they'd come here with work permits to pick
fruit, wash dishes, baby sit and do other jobs the U.S. labor force cannot fill.
However, methods for bringing them in legally, such as a temporary guest-worker
program or simply more visas for Mexican workers, are not in Smith's bill.

Worse, he's bought into the extremist argument that legal immigration must be
reduced by a whopping 30 percent because this nation has reached its "carrying
capacity."

Whatever that capacity is, Smith doesn't explain or document. But he's using
this incomplete argument to slash visas for skilled workers, relatives and
refugees. In one fell swoop, he'd hurt American companies competing for the
world's finest minds; he'd keep spouses and children from joining their loved
ones already here; and he'd allow the Saddam Husseins of the world to torture
more of their countrymen.

To be fair, Smith's bill also calls for some sensible things, including a beefed
up Border Patrol and expanded enforcement of immigration laws in the interior.
And it would eliminate an unnecessary visa lottery for people from
low-immigration nations.

But all in all, Smith's strategy is insidious: he's taking advantage of
legitimate concerns over illegal immigration to drastically lower legal
immigration.

Standards for legal admission may need thoughtful re-evaluation, but they
certainly don't get it here.

It would be easier and more reasonable to address legal and illegal immigration
in two separate bills, but Smith and his Republican colleagues have already
rejected that idea. If Smith's bill reaches President Clinton's desk in its
present, two-headed form, he'd do the nation a favor by vetoing it.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              49 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 9, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO-VISA STUDENTS LIE FOR LOWER FEE SUIT THREATENED: STATE UNIVERSITIES DON'T
CHECK PAPERS.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1034 words


Almost a year after a state appeals court ordered San Jose State and other
California State Universities to charge undocumented immigrants higher
out-of-state tuition rates, hundreds continue to pay lower state-resident fees
by lying on their admission applications.

They get away with it because CSU administrators don't verify the information
students provide about their legal residency status. As a result, many
undocumented immigrants pay the $1,970 annual in-state tuition rate instead of
the $8,522 out-of-state rate simply by saying they are legal residents or
citizens - no questions asked.

The co-counsel in the suit that challenged CSU's tuition policy said he may
return to court to demand that the university system take stronger steps.

"There's every indication that all they are doing is paying lip-service in terms
of complying," said lawyer Alan C. Nelson, who was also the author of
Proposition 187. "I think it's about time to bring that matter before the courts
again to see if CSU has tried to duck the court order."

The illegal-immigration foes who challenged the policy say CSU officials are
interpreting the decision more loosely than the court's ruling requires. The
University of California system, they note, has demanded proof of students'
immigration status since being slapped with a similar court order in 1990.

CSU officials reply that the state appeals panel did not tell them how they
should fulfill the court's order. It simply told them to take "reasonable" steps
to ensure that undocumented students are paying out-of-state fees.

Officials said they are indeed complying with the court's mandate. They say they
have sent hundreds of letters since January seeking more information from
students whose immigration status was suspect.

But Colleen Bentley-Adler, spokeswoman for the CSU chancellor's office, said
asking students to show documents verifying their legal status is
time-consuming, costly and unnecessary.

'We're not . . . the INS'

"It would be impossible - an administrative nightmare - to check that,"
Bentley-Adler said. "We're not a branch of the INS. We rely on people's honesty
in filling out these applications."

CSU officials estimate that only about 1,000 of the system's 325,000 students
are undocumented immigrants. But illegal- immigration opponents assert that
there are thousands more the university doesn't know about because many of the
students lie on their applications.

Undocumented students who have lied about their residency say they hope the
university won't verify the information they provide in their applications -
under penalty of perjury.

"It doesn't feel good to have to lie in order to continue with my education,"
said Maria, an undocumented immigrant from Nicaragua who did not want her last
name used. "But I also don't think it's fair that racists are filing lawsuits to
try to kick us out of school."

For years, CSU campuses have been known among undocumented students as "safe
places" where their immigration status would not be questioned. The case filed
by Nelson and his counterparts, which culminated in a Jan. 17 ruling from the
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, sought to change that.

Backed by groups that supported Proposition 187, the case predated the
incendiary ballot measure that sought to deny most public services to
undocumented immigrants. Prop. 187 has been tangled up in court since passing
with 59 percent of vote, and a federal judge recently struck down much of the
law as unconstitutional.

Maria, 20, who has lived in San Jose illegally since 1988, said when she first
applied to the university in 1994, she marked "none of the above" as her
immigration status. But when she received a letter in the mail a few months ago
asking for clarification, she sent a form back saying she was a legal resident.
She decided she had to lie because she could not afford the higher tuition.

"I've worked too hard, for too long, to let them stop my dream now because I
don't have the right documents," said Maria, who works full time as a waitress
while taking a full load of classes.

Advised to lie

Undocumented students at San Jose State said they are advising others like them
to lie on their applications in order to keep paying the lower tuition. In fact,
this word-of-mouth campaign seems to be working.

An admissions official interviewed this week said the university had only
received four spring semester applications in which students have filled out
"none of the above" for immigration status.

"We won't fill that out anymore, now that we know that answer raises flags with
administrators," said Antonio, a 23-year-old undocumented immigrant from Mexico.

At a protest at San Jose State this week, members of a Mexican-American campus
group said recent requests for clarification of 300 students' immigration status
amounted to harassment. Many of the students who received the written requests
had marked "none of the above" on their original admission applications -
instead of citizen, refugee, legal immigrant or visitor with a visa.

About half of these 300 San Jose State students were allowed to continue paying
in-state fees after assuring the university they were legal residents, citizens
or students with valid visas. The university did not verify any of their claims,
said Paul Torres, assistant director of student outreach and recruitment.

The other half, who said they were undocumented or had expired visas, were told
they would have to pay out-of-state fees.

Carlos Contreras, 23, a Mexican immigrant with an expired visa, said he would
have to drop out because he could not afford to pay $8,522 a year for tuition.
The full-time student, who also works at a warehouse, said charging higher fees
to undocumented students was unjust.

Contreras said he has lived in California since 1984 and should be considered a
resident of the state even though he is in the country illegally.

"My life is here, not in Mexico," he said. "I've received most of my education
in this country, and my parents and I have paid our taxes. It's not right that
they are trying to take away my right to better myself by getting an education."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              50 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               December 13, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JUDGE STANDS FIRM ON EDUCATION RULING PROP. 187: SUPREME COURT IN '82 REJECTED
BAN ON SCHOOLING FOR UNDOCUMENTED CHILDREN.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


In another blow to Proposition 187 supporters, a judge said Tuesday she would
not reconsider a ruling that bars the state from denying education to children
of illegal immigrants.

U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, who last month struck down much of
voter-approved Proposition 187 as unconstitutional, denied a motion by the state
to reconsider the portion of the initiative that would deny elementary and
secondary education to undocumented children.

Pfaelzer denied the motion in a written ruling late Monday, and during a status
conference in court Tuesday she cited a 1982 Supreme Court ruling that banned
Texas from refusing public education to children not legally admitted into the
country.

In that case, the high court declared the Texas law unconstitutional - a
violation of the equal protection guaranteed by the Constitution's 14th
Amendment.

The motion filed by the California attorney general's office came three weeks
after Pfaelzer effectively gutted most of Proposition 187, saying elements of
the California law denying public services to undocumented immigrants are
unconstitutional.

At that time, Pfaelzer ruled that undocumented immigrants can't be questioned
about their immigration status when applying to attend public elementary and
secondary schools or receive health and welfare benefits.

She did not, however, strike down provisions that deny higher education benefits
to undocumented students.

The proposition, passed by voters in November 1994, was endorsed by Gov. Pete
Wilson.

Many organizations, including the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education
Fund and the American Civil Liberties Union, filed suits challenging the law.

A preliminary injunction, meanwhile, prevents most portions of the law from
being enforced by the state.

Also Tuesday, Pfaelzer gave state attorneys until Jan. 31 to submit a list of
state-funded programs that could be denied to illegal immigrants under parts of
Proposition 187 the judge left in tact. She asked them to propose rules on how
to put them into effect and how to identify illegal immigrants.

The judge also pointed out that state attorneys could seek a permanent
injunction, which if issued, would move the case to an appeals court.

"I'm in favor of a permanent injunction and going to a higher court," Pfaelzer
said. "The issues are very important, and there are many more opinions that were
put in (the ruling)."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 11, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INITIATIVE REQUIRES I.D. TO OBTAIN AID BACKERS AIM FOR NOVEMBER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Those seeking welfare or other government benefits would have to carry
state-issued identification cards proving their U.S. citizenship or legal
residency under an initiative proposed for the November ballot.

The measure is sponsored by Harold Ezell, one of the chief authors of
Proposition 187, the 1994 ballot initiative that attempted to bar most public
services to illegal immigrants.

"This is not only going to significantly dissuade illegal immigration," said
Ezell, a former U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service regional director.
"It's also going to dissuade . . . those people from other states that are going
through the blizzards right now, saying, 'Hey, I can't make it here in New York
. . . let's go to California and live off the fat of the land of the Golden
State.' "

The proposed initiative already has the support of the state Republican Party
and the California American Legion. Backers need to collect more than 600,000
signa tures by May to qualify it for November's ballot.

DMV-issued cards

Under the measure, anyone who wants to receive state-funded services would have
to display an I.D. card issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, proving
citizenship or legal residency.

To qualify for that card, or a new driver's license, a person would be required
to provide a birth certificate or fingerprints that verify identity.

A woman who is an illegal immigrant but whose children were born in this country
would have to obtain I.D. cards for her children before she could apply for a
program such as Aid to Families With Dependent Children.

The initiative also calls for all California residents to be fingerprinted at
birth and for all birth certificates to contain information regarding the
residency status of the person's mother.

Proponents predict the measure will prove attractive to voters, but they also
acknowledge that civil libertarians on the left and right could mount stiff
opposition to the initiative, labeling it an Orwellian intrusion on individual
privacy rights.

Foes denounce measure

Indeed, the American Civil Liberties Union and a director of the Proposition 187
campaign both spoke out against the proposed measure.

Proposition 187, which state voters approved in November 1994, is tied up in the
courts while judges decide whether it is legal to deny public education and
non-emergency medical services to illegal immigrants.

Ron Prince, who headed the Proposition 187 campaign, said citizens already are
burdened with enough identity cards.

"The only problem we have is verifying the information already contained in
these cards," he said.

Ramona Ripston, executive director of the ACLU in Los Angeles, also denounced
the measure.

"It's just this right-wing rich conservative attitude about poor people and
making it much more difficult for them to exercise their rights," Ripston said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 17, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MIGRATING WITHOUT DOCUMENTS BORDER TENSION GROWS FOR U.S. AGENTS, CROSSERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 597 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Border Patrol agent Mark Moody muscles his Ford Bronco over a dirt road
paralleling the steel fence and thinks about why so many illegal immigrants try
to cross the border into the United States.

"I feel sorry for their situation and what they have to deal with in their
country economically, but we have to distance ourselves or we'll have a hard
time doing our jobs," says Moody, a nine-year veteran of the U.S. Border Patrol
who remembers the days when no one cared about the border and illegal
immigration.

But all that has changed in the past two years as the Clinton administration
makes a renewed effort to fortify the U.S.-Mexico border and to demonstrate its
seriousness about combating illegal immigration.

The most recent action came Friday when officials announced that hundreds more
agents, inspectors, soldiers and police would be deployed to the border to
deflect an expected tide of illegal immigrants trying to cross into the United
States.

Reinforcements arrive

The first of those reinforcements arrived in Southern California and Arizona on
Tuesday, transfers from the Canadian border who will be replaced in the next
three months with new recruits fresh from training at the Border Patrol Academy.

The new agents will start working on the front lines today. Moody and his
colleagues said they welcome any assistance they can get.

The latest Border Patrol strategy is to push illegal immigrants to cross in the
flatlands and not in hilly terrain where they can hide in the brush and canyons.
Now that the once high-traffic region of Imperial Beach is under control, agents
here are focusing east on a five-mile stretch between the San Ysidro and Otay
Mesa ports of entry.

"We pushed traffic out there to the east, but we didn't beef up Chula Vista,"
Moody said. "Once we have Chula Vista covered, we'll have the upper hand. The
important thing is not how many we catch but how many get away."

Although federal officials have tried to downplay the role of the military at
the border, immigrant advocates and Mexican officials say the latest plan
amounts to a dangerous militarization of the border and is downright
unneighborly.

'Hostile move'

"This is a hostile move against Mexico," said Jorge Bustamante, president of El
Colegio del la Frontera Norte in Tijuana, Mexico. "It's like a revolving door
going faster and faster with every new border policy the U.S. enacts."

He said President Clinton is borrowing political strategy from Republican Gov.
Pete Wilson, who supported Proposition 187, an anti-illegal-immigration measure
approved overwhelmingly in 1994 by California voters.

"Pete Wilson showed that to bash Mexico brings votes," Bustamante said. "He
(Clinton) needs to win California if he wants to be re-elected."

The military has traditionally performed duties such as operating infrared night
scopes, building and maintaining roads and staffing surveillance posts. The role
that police and sheriff's deputies will play is still being worked out.

For all the talk of increased border forces, the word has not filtered into the
interior of Mexico.

On Tuesday, Antonio Villa leaned against a graffiti-scrawled section of steel
fence separating Tijuana from San Diego. He was surrounded by more than a
half-dozen relatives and friends who had arrived from the Mexican state of
Zacatecas three days earlier with the goal of crossing the border into the
United States in search of work.

"More police?" Villa said softly in Spanish. "That's not good. We want to cross
over. We want jobs. We'll stay as long as it takes."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Illegal immigrants from the Mexican state of Zacatecas pause in their journey
Tuesday by a gap in the fence on the U.S.-Mexico border.
[960117 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
U.S. Border Patrol agents watch people waiting in a frequent staging area for
crossing.
[960117 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 23, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL AGENT DENIES FIRING AT IMMIGRANTS 6 FELL FROM CLIFF

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A Border Patrol agent pursuing a group of illegal immigrants did not fire his
gun, as some of the immigrants reported, federal authorities said Monday.

Six of the illegal immigrants ran away from the agent in the dark Saturday night
and fell off a 120-foot cliff. One man died, and the others were injured.

The FBI and the Justice Department's Office of the Inspector General are
investigating the accident because some of the immigrants said they heard a
gunshot, which panicked them.

But a ballistics test conducted by the San Diego County Sheriff's Department
showed the agent's gun did not go off, Deputy U.S. Attorney Amalia Meza said.

"If there's any doubt of his participation, that should clear that up," Border
Patrol spokesman Ron Henley said.

The Border Patrol agent, whose name was not released, has been referred to a
psychologist for counseling because he was so traumatized by the accident,
Henley said.

Tests also showed that three other agents who were in the area did not fire
their guns, Meza said.

The fall occurred at Otay Lakes Dam, about four miles north of the border, a
popular route for illegal immigrants heading north.

Although a Border Patrol agent fell to his death there last year, no warning
signs have been erected along the ravines and canyons.

The Border Patrol is investigating whether smugglers, known as coyotes, were
responsible for leading the immigrants into the area.

Two of the injured illegal immigrants remained hospitalized Monday, Henley said.
A Border Patrol agent twisted a knee while helping to rescue the illegal
immigrants, but he has recuperated, Henley said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 26, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PREGNANT '10-YEAR-OLD' HAD FAKE ID ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT: SHE WAS FOUND WITH
BOYFRIEND, 22, IN HOUSTON APARTMENT.

BYLINE: Michael Graczyk, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON


A girl who disappeared after claiming she was 10 years old and 8 1/2 months
pregnant was found with a phony birth certificate and is probably about 14,
authorities said Thursday.

Police also discovered that the girl they knew as Cindy Garcia is actually an
illegal immigrant from Mexico named Adella Quintana.

The girl's flight from social workers earlier in the week prompted a desperate
hunt because of fears that she was endangering her life and that of her unborn
child.

Police found her with her 22-year-old boyfriend, Pedro Sotelo, hiding in a
Houston apartment Wednesday night. Sotelo was jailed in lieu of $200,000 bail on
a charge of aggravated sexual assault and could get life in prison.

"The certificate that we had is the only documentation of her age and apparently
a fake," said Linda Edwards, a Texas Department of Protective and Regulatory
Services official. "We think she's about 14. We don't know exactly."

As far as Sotelo is concerned, it wouldn't make any difference. A 14-year-old in
Texas can legally have sex only with someone no more than three years older.

Edwards said they determined the birth certificate was forged after social
workers interviewed the girl Thursday.

The girl's mother, Francesca Quintana, gave police a written statement later
Thursday saying she had obtained the phony birth certificate when the family
moved from Mexico so she could enroll Adella in Houston's public schools, police
official Alvin Wright said.

Garcia's parents are divorced. Her father's whereabouts was unknown, and police
were investigating whether to charge the mother with child neglect.

Police say the girl and Sotelo gave them false names but didn't resist when
confronted by officers four days after she ran away from a shelter for abused
children. They were found after a woman took them, cold and hungry, into her
apartment and had a friend call 911.

Adella had been taken to a shelter by authorities after she turned up at a
welfare office with the phony birth certificate to qualify for food stamps and
child support.

Social workers panicked when Adella ran away because she was just two weeks shy
of her due date and her body would be unlikely to withstand childbirth without a
Caesarean section. She didn't even know what a C-section was, they said.

The girl was examined Thursday by an obstetrician, who said she probably
wouldn't deliver for four weeks.

Whether Adella and her baby will be allowed to stay together remains uncertain.
"My experience is it will take a lot of work before anyone's going to feel safe
about letting either child back to that home," said Judy Hay of Harris County
Children's Protective Services.

And social workers said they couldn't guarantee she wouldn't run away again.

"We will be doing everything we possibly can to ensure she won't run away," said
Sara Webster, a regional director for Child Protective Services.

"But you must understand we don't have lockup facilities. This child has not
committed a crime. She has been abused and neglected."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (3);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A TV photographer sets up equipment for a live shot outside the northeast
Houston home where Adella Quintana, alias Cindy Garcia, reportedly lived with
her boyfriend. Apparently she is 14 years old.
[960126 FR 19A 1]
PHOTO: Sotelo
[960126 FR 19A 2]
PHOTO: Adella Quintana
[960126 FR 19A 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              55 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 6, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

BORDER CRACKDOWN THE DRIVE TO STOP ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION INTO URBAN SAN DIEGO IS
CAUSING BIG INCREASES IN APPREHENSIONS BY THE BORDER PATROL IN AREAS FARTHER
EAST CROSSERS RISK THEIR LIVES BUT TRY AGAIN AND AGAIN

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1514 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico


Demetrio Moreno watched his best friend die trying to sneak into America.

Jose Luis Senteno's Jan. 24 death from hunger and dehydration illustrates, in a
macabre way, the apparent success of a 16-month-old U.S. effort to drive illegal
immigrants away from the urbanized border near San Diego and toward the
treacherous mountains to the east.

The number of people apprehended by the U.S. Border Patrol's two easternmost San
Diego County stations is up more than 500 percent over last year. Agents there
say they're being overrun.

But officials in charge of the initiative known as Operation Gatekeeper say
that's exactly what they expected to happen.

Since the project's inception Oct. 1, 1994, the Border Patrol has installed new
motion sensors, infrared night scopes and stadium-style lighting in addition to
increasing the number of agents in the San Diego sector from 1,287 to 1,605.
Much of the effort has been concentrated in a five-mile stretch of border that
begins at the Pacific Ocean.

Under Phase 2 of Gatekeeper, announced by U.S. immigration officials in
mid-January, Imperial Beach will get a reinforced fence and hundreds more agents
and soldiers will be assigned to San Diego County - many of them on the eastern
flank.

Border Patrol agents concede this will only bring more misery to people such as
Moreno and Senteno.

"We feel sorry for them," said supervisory agent Mark Moody. "But we have a job
to do."

'Coyotes' cost more

On the Mexican side of the border, where the economy is staggering 13 months
after a severe peso devaluation, Gatekeeper has brought equally profound
changes. It has dramatically hiked the cost of "coyotes" - smugglers in human
cargo - and forced would-be U.S. immigrants from poverty-ravaged states such as
Michoacan, Sinaloa and Jalisco to look for work in Tijuana and other industrial
cities of northern Mexico, rather than in the United States. Some have become so
discouraged that they're heading home to the Mexican interior.

Moreno, 27, is one of them. As he told his story in a Tijuana migrant shelter,
his eyes were glassy with tears.

He and Senteno, a 35-year-old Michoacan farmworker, came to Tijuana with great
hope and confidence, Moreno said. Having worked four years as a Santa Barbara
dishwasher, Moreno recalls the days before Gatekeeper, when crossing the
international border was almost as easy as crossing the street.

Two weeks ago, the two men found four coyotes willing to take them and 18 other
Mexican nationals to Los Angeles for $350 each. The coyotes suggested they head
to Tecate, 35 miles east of the Pacific.

The smugglers said the trip by foot would take no more than five hours, so
Moreno and Senteno brought only a small amount of ice and no food. The coyotes
didn't tell them they'd actually have to walk all the way past a new Border
Patrol checkpoint seven miles north of Mexico on Highway 94.

Three-day journey

That checkpoint, part of a strategy that forces border-crossers to travel longer
distances in remote areas, meant that Senteno and Moreno had to walk not five
hours but three days - through steep canyons and across sagebrush-covered hills.

When Senteno became weak, Moreno asked the smugglers to feed him. But the
coyotes kept their burritos and water to themselves - and kicked and beat
Senteno for not keeping up with the group. Soon, he became so sick that Moreno
was forced to flag down a passing Border Patrol agent, who called paramedics.
Moreno's friend of 15 years died 25 minutes later.

Agents in the Tecate area say they're ill-equipped to handle the swarms of
illegal border-crossers they're seeing because enforcement has been so effective
to the west.

The main strategy at the Imperial Beach patrol area near San Diego has been to
maintain a high visibility by parking vehicles from the Border Patrol's fleet of
white Ford Broncos every several hundred yards near the border fence. But the
crackdown has only pushed the illegal traffic east.

"I can't remember a night I've been here and not caught somebody," said Rhonda
Winford, an eight-year Border Patrol veteran who has been based at Brown Field,
east of Imperial Beach, for three years.

Dozens of arrests

From 7:30 to midnight one recent shift, she helped arrest five people in a field
and 17 others in a wooded area and helped process the arrests of dozens of
others. Virtually all of those apprehended were held for a few hours and dropped
at the border.

Two weeks ago, six illegal border-crossers who ran from Brown Field agents at
Otay Lakes Dam weren't so lucky. They fell off a 120-foot cliff. One died and
five were injured.

Agents such as Winford have been helped by National Guardsmen and other U.S.
troops operating night-vision scopes. Soldiers also help build fences, construct
and maintain access roads and help port-of-entry inspectors.

Under the second phase of Gatekeeper, the number of troops will double to 350.
And last week, the state Assembly narrowly passed a bill that would let the
California National Guard patrol the border and detain anyone suspected of
violating the law.

The sight of soldiers in camouflage fatigues at the border already sends a
not-so-subtle message to would-be drug smugglers and illegal migrants. And
immigrant-rights groups and the Mexican government are worried that the
political climate could result in a truly militarized border within a few years.

Still, some illegal-immigration fighters think the Clinton administration isn't
doing nearly enough. "The president should bring home the 20,000 troops from
Bosnia and put them along the border," said Harold Ezell, a former Western
regional Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner. "Let's get serious
about this thing."

Privately, most agents will tell you that Gatekeeper will never be truly
effective until the border-crossers know they're facing real penalties. "Why
would they go back?" asked an El Cajon agent. "We give them as many chances as
they want to get here."

But Border Patrol officials argue that as agents make it harder and harder to
cross, the message will get through that, as Moody put it, "You're going to be
apprehended and you're going to not have any money and you're going to be
stranded." To reinforce that message, the INS has been buying time on Mexican
radio and TV, warning would-be illegal immigrants that they're going to have a
tough time crossing.

Computer data bank

One clear improvement has been the installation of a computer system that
identifies and tracks illegal immigrants with fingerprint machines, linked to a
data base connected to all Southwest border stations. The Border Patrol's
computers now contain more than 550,000 fingerprints.

The new system allows agents to immediately determine whether a border-crosser
is a "criminal alien," someone convicted of a serious crime in the United States
and then deported. Agents previously had to use their instincts to sort the
economic migrants from the criminals.

The worst thing Gatekeeper has done, according to unsuccessful border-crossers
interviewed at La Casa del Migrante in Tijuana, the migrant shelter where Moreno
ended up, is to raise the cost of coming to the United States. Before, they
could walk into Imperial Beach on their own or pay a smuggler $100 to $150. Now
the average cost of a trip to Los Angeles is $500, to San Jose $700.

"It's unbelievable," said Gioacchino Campese, a Catholic brother who is the
shelter's assistant director. "People tell me they've tried 10, 20 times and
still not made it."

Because Tijuana's economy is healthier than most of Mexico's, Campese said, most
people willing to work find construction jobs or work in foreign-owned
maquiladora factories that line the border. They often work six days a week, 11
hours a day. The average pay is 250 pesos, roughly $35, a week.

"It's hardest for the people who have been living in the United States," said
Marisela Contreras, a Tijuana social worker. "They're the ones who realize how
little they're making."

'People keep coming'

Still, as the unemployment rate in many Mexican states reaches 30 percent,
compared with 5 percent in Tijuana, "the people keep coming and coming," said
Stefan Roemer-Blum, a 21-year-old German who has volunteered at a Tijuana soup
kitchen for 16 months.

"The migrants just get stuck here and feel they don't have a future," he said.
"A lot of them get hassled or robbed by the police or end up in jail for
drinking, fighting, small robberies or prostitution. It's become a serious,
desperate problem."

Other migrants, such as Moreno, are heading south in the hope that the border
crackdown is a passing fancy. He said he planned on returning to his wife, three
young boys and his old job in the lemon fields in Michoacan.

For the time being, at least.

"I'm going to tell the people in my village they have to wait to cross into
America - that now it's not worth it," he said. "But one day, I think,
everything will be OK. The Border Patrol will be gone, and I can come back and
try again."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: FEBRUARY 8, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 2/8/96, pg. 2A)
A caption with Tuesday's story on the U.S. border crackdown incorrectly
identified the location and person in a photograph taken near the border. He was
a U.S. Border Patrol agent, not a California National Guardsman. The photograph
was taken just north of Tijuana - not Tecate, Mexico.

GRAPHIC: Map, Photos (3);
MAP: Carl Neiburger - MERCURY NEWS
Border Patrol's San Diego Sector
[With statistics for arrests per patrol area along CA border]
Source: Border Patrol
[960206 FR 10A 2; color]
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE - MERCURY NEWS
A member of the California National Guard keeps vigil on a road in an arid
landscape at the border near Tecate, Mexico. Guardsmen aid in searching
vehicles.
[960206 FR 10A 1; color]
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE - MERCURY NEWS
ROUNDUPS: A cluster of illegal immigrants sits illuminated in the headlights of
a Border Patrol vehicle. They were part of a group of 17 sighted and tracked
down this night by use of infrared night scopes. The group would be returned to
Tijuana the same night.
[960206 FR 1A 1; color]
PHOTO: INFRARED TRACKING: Human figures stand out as white in night surroundings
on night scope, one of the Border Patrol's weapons used to control illegal
crossings of the U.S.-Mexico border. Motion sensors, stadium-style lighting and
more agents help control the flow.
[960206 FR 1A 3; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              56 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 15, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ENTRY VISAS WIN KEY VOTE LIMITS: PANEL SPLITS BORDER-CONTROL BILL, SEPARATING
LEGAL, ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION.

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1067 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The first major effort in decades to limit legal immigration and end many family
reunification programs suffered a significant setback in the Senate on Thursday.

The Senate Judiciary Committee voted overwhelmingly to separate the sweeping
border-control bill into two measures: one with politically popular measures
aimed at punishing those who crash America's borders and one with more
controversial limits on lawful entry into the U.S.

The action will allow senators to vote for the politically safe illegal
immigration measures while opposing the reductions in legal immigration - making
it more likely that the year-long drive to enact reform will be confined to
illegal immigration.

The progress of the combined bill has been watched closely in the ethnically
diverse Silicon Valley - particularly in the Filipino community, the
second-largest in the nation. If the measures in the legal immigrant bill become
law, 93 percent of the hundreds of thousands of Filipinos waiting to immigrate -
many of them relatives of Filipinos already here - would become ineligible.

Immigration proponents hailed Thursday's vote as a turning point in a white-hot
immigration debate that was touched off by California's Proposition 187 in 1994,
and fanned this year along the Republican campaign trail, where tough talk on
immigration has been anything but subtle.

"This is a dramatic setback for them," said Frank Sharry, executive director of
the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group. "A year ago, it looked
like measures to cut legal immigration by about one-third were politically
inevitable. This vote shows there is tremendous and growing opposition to
cutting legal immigration."

The Senate panel's vote to split the bill was 12-6 - and reflected the issue's
unusual political alliances. Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch,
R-Utah, supported it along with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and many
Democrats. Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wy., the immigration subcommittee chairman,
opposed it - as did Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

Feinstein, who has voted for tough measures to stem immigration that she says
threatens to overwhelm California, said the legal immigration proposals have
been politically sensitive.

"Every immigration attorney has organized all their clients and they're all
lobbying," she said. "So it's tough. But the bottom line of this is: What is
just and fair in a country that accepts more immigrants than any other country
in the world and most of them put together?"

Feinstein said without the cover of popular measures to combat illegal
immigration, efforts to curb legal immigration - and perhaps any immigration
bill at all - will be a difficult sell this year. "It just makes it much more
speculative as to whether any kind of bill can come out in the long term,"
Feinstein said.

Simpson vows to fight

But Simpson indicated he will continue the fight for measures covering both
illegal and legal immigration. He said the legal immigration measure will be
given full debate on the Senate floor, where he is likely to move to meld the
measures back into a single bill.

And advocates on both sides of the issue agreed that while Thursday's vote makes
it more difficult for some legal immigration changes to win approval this year,
the task is not impossible.

"The issue will not go away," Simpson told reporters after the vote. "It will
not collapse into the basement. The president wants to deal with it. Bob Dole
wants to deal with it. And everybody in America wants to deal with it."

A parallel bill is moving forward in the House, which is scheduled to debate it
next week, where a previously defeated effort to split the bill will be revived.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which favors tougher immigration laws, said the Senate committee caved in to
special interests who seek to protect a system he said was out of control. He
called the vote "cowardly obedience" to them.

'Betrayed our trust'

"The move to split the bill should be seen for what it is - a transparent effort
to kill much-needed and widely supported cuts in the current flood of legal
immigration," Stein said.

"By shirking their responsibility to the American public to reform immigration,
these shallow 'representatives' have betrayed our trust, dismissed the wishes of
their constituents, and worsened the growing problem of over-immigration."

But Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights group, said separate examinations of the two immigration
bills will expose the flaws in proposals to tighten legal immigration.

"It makes no sense to deny American citizens the right to live with their
spouses, their kids, and their siblings," Munoz said.

Simpson's proposal would cut legal immigration - now at an annual level of about
775,000 - by 20 percent.

It would allow U.S. citizens to have their spouses and minor children join them
in the U.S., but it would eliminate immigration options for siblings and most
adult children and would severely curtail immigration by parents.

Those aspects of the measure have caused particular concern in this area. For
example, of the 70,000 unmarried adult sons and daughters of U.S. citizens on
the waiting list to enter the country, 50,000 are Filipino. Of 260,000 married
sons and daughters on the list, 150,000 are Filipino.

Illegals debated first

Hatch said his committee will debate the legal immigration bill one week after
it completes work on the illegal immigration measure with debate on the Senate
floor scheduled for late April.

"All the stuff you heard here will come rising like the Phoenix out of the ashes
on the floor," Simpson said.

Last year, a commission headed by the late Barbara Jordan, a former Texas
congresswoman, called for cuts in illegal immigration and President Clinton
swiftly embraced that recommendation. Since then, his administration has sent
mixed signals about the pace and details of immigration reform.

The illegal immigration bill would dramatically increase funding for
border-patrol agents.

It would establish an experimental computerized program to check the eligibility
status of people applying for jobs or public benefits. And it would make it
easier to deny entry to foreigners who seek U.S. asylum but do not hold proper
documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              57 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 21, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DON'T SHUT THE GATE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 237 words


CALIFORNIA has a tradition of welcoming and being enriched by immigrants,
whether they be descendants of Mexicans who came north before California became
a state; descendants of the Chinese who built the railroads; miner 49ers;
Depression-era immigrants from the Midwest; soldiers who shipped home from the
Pacific and stayed on; Vietnamese, Hmong and Lao who sought refuge from the
killing fields of their homelands in the 70s; or the students who came to our
great universities from around the country and world to study and who stayed.

Despite this tradition, voices are rising in our state and country today that
there has been enough immigration. There is a bill pending for a vote today in
the House of Representatives to cut back on the number of legal immigrants.

I wonder if the authors of the bill have ever come to Silicon Valley? If so, I
cannot believe they would cut back on the engine of progress that brought this
country so many electrical engineers, medical doctors, software designers,
physicists, biochemists, teachers.

The problem is not legal immigration, but the vigorous enforcement of our
current illegal immigration laws. Until we address this problem, whose solutions
should include increased funding for border surveillance and patrol, and prompt
deportation of illegal immigrants, we must not close the door to the next
generation of immigrants.

- Tom Campbell
U.S. Congressman

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters, Etc.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              58 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 23, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DOLE LAUNCHES BID TO STEAL CALIFORNIA FROM CLINTON HE TARGETS DEFENSE CUTS,
IMMIGRATION IN SPEECHES

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1123 words

DATELINE: PICO RIVERA


Bob Dole marched into California on Friday, unveiling a campaign strategy of
targeted messages aimed at specific pockets of the state in hopes of patching
together a GOP victory in November.

Dole used the opening of his three-day visit before Tuesday's Republican primary
to open fire on President Clinton on defense cuts and immigration. First stop:
Northrop Grumman, assembly line of the B-2 bomber, where several thousand
workers and their families cheered Dole's cry to "Keep the line open."

Dole, who advocates doubling the fleet of $2.2 billion V-shaped bombers to 40,
said he understands "the dangers of an uncertain world" but "sometimes you
wonder" if Clinton does.

Dole, who has all but clinched the Republican nomination, made only passing
reference to the primary, focusing instead on November, when California's
pivotal 54 electoral votes will be on the line.

"Only one person stands in the way," he said, ignoring GOP opponent Pat
Buchanan. "The person who stands in the way is President Clinton."

Later, at Arnie's Point on the U.S.-Mexican border south of San Diego, Dole
called for a doubling of the Border Patrol, passage of legislation to permit
states to deny social benefits and schooling to illegal immigrants, and federal
reimbursement to states for the cost of providing services to illegal
immigrants.

"We have a responsibility to protect our borders," he told reporters, with his
back to Tijuana about 100 yards across a ravine. "Somewhere you have to draw the
line. What are you denying other taxpayers, what are you denying legal
immigrants or citizens of California?"

The two appearances represented the opening salvo of Dole's attempt to steal
California from Clinton, who is popular here and leads Dole by 16 percentage
points in the latest Field Poll.

The strategy, urged on the Dole campaign by California Gov. Pete Wilson and
experienced California strategists such as Ken Khachigian, is to hammer Clinton
on specific issues that resonate with pockets of disenchanted voters. Hence, the
military pitch in suburban Los Angeles and the made-for-TV anti-immigration
message in San Diego.

Tomorrow, in a visit to San Quentin State Prison, Dole will speak to the
concerns of anxious suburbanites, arguing that Clinton is soft on crime.

Then, in Fresno, capital of the state's agricultural belt, he'll make the case
that Clinton's environmentally oriented Interior Department "has a war on the
West," as Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh put it.

Sunday, in Orange County, Dole will blast Clinton for opposing the California
Civil Rights Initiative - the measure to end preferential treatment in jobs and
education.

"Each one is a piece of the puzzle that will be used to beat Bill Clinton in
November," said Walsh. "This initial primary swing will be what we hope is the
model for the rest of the campaign."

Warm-up by Wilson

Wilson, who is overseeing Dole's California campaign, was the warm-up speaker
for the majority leader at both stops Friday, sounding a more sharply partisan
theme even than Dole himself. He ridiculed Clinton for changing his mind two
days ago and authorizing $493 million to help add one more bomber to the B-2
fleet for a total of 21 - nowhere close to the 20 extra bombers advocated by
Dole.

"My friends," Wilson said to the receptive aerospace audience, "I hope that you
plan to build one hell of a bomber. Because Bill Clinton is going to ask one B-2
to do the work of 20."

Wilson said he was pleased Clinton had changed his mind, "But I would hate to
think it had anything to do with catching wind of Senator Dole's visit here
today." When the audience's laughter died down, he continued, "Bob, I think Bill
Clinton just paid you the ultimate compliment. He's building a B-2 to keep you
from penetrating California's airspace."

Clinton's "reckless defense reductions" have hurt California's economy, he said,
but "it only took one visit from Bob Dole to get a B-2 into production. Senator,
maybe we can convince you to visit another 19 times," Wilson said to lusty
cheers.

"I always like these non-partisan meetings," the wry Dole said as he stepped to
the podium, noting, "If I'm going to make a mistake on defense spending, I'm
going to spend a little too much rather than a little too little."

He predicted that Clinton would probably come to California and advocate 200
B-2s "but when he gets back to the Oval Office, takes a reality check, and the
liberals move in on him, then he changes his mind."

Dole's direct appeal to the self-interest of the thousands of aerospace workers
seemed to score big points. "He has a sound platform," said engineer Ben
Pumphrey of West Covina. "I don't think you have to have a lot of zip to win
California. I just think you have to have a good message."

Border location

With Wilson as his political guide dog, Dole then headed south to Arnie's Point,
where thousands of Mexicans slip across the border and into California,
according to Border Patrol authorities.

Again, however, it was Wilson, the failed presidential candidate, who took the
sharpest swipes at Clinton, arguing that the federal government's failure to
control the border cost California taxpayers $2.7 billion last year, including
$1.9 billion on educating children of illegal immigrants.

Wilson, who has sued the Clinton administration for reimbursement, labeled the
president a "deadbeat" and praised Dole for his early endorsement of Proposition
187, the 1994 measure that would deny social services and education to illegal
immigrants but has been blocked in the courts.

Dole said it is "sad, in a way" that so many impoverished Mexicans crash the
border in search of work. "But on the other hand, taxpayers - in many cases
working people, low-income Americans - are picking up the tab," he said. "Just
in the state of California it's about $3 billion a year because of the federal
government's inability to control the borders and because of the failure on the
part of this administration to assist the states in picking up part of the
cost."

Unlike Buchanan, who visited the border Wednesday, Dole said, "We must
distinguish when we talk about immigration between legal and illegal
immigration."

"Most everyone talks about getting tougher on illegal immigration and now we
have a clear opportunity," he said, supporting legislation sponsored by Rep.
Elton Gallegly, R-Simi Valley, to effectively federalize Proposition 187 by
allowing states to deny services to illegal immigrants.

He predicted tough legislation on the issue would be taken up by the Senate in
late April or early May. That would dovetail with Dole's national campaign
strategy of sending bills to Clinton and daring him to veto them.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Bob Dole, flanked by California Gov. Pete Wilson, left, and Arizona Sen. John
McCain, talks about illegal immigration Friday at Arnie's Point, with Tijuana in
the background.
[960323 FR 15A]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Bob Dole speaks to workers Friday at B-2 manufacturer Northrop Grumman in Pico
Rivera.
[960323 FR 1A 2; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              59 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 27, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

UNION BLASTS FIRING OF 5 AGENTS ACCUSED OF STONING IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A union representing Border Patrol agents who work the U.S.-Mexico line
condemned the firing Tuesday of five officers who allegedly threw rocks at
illegal immigrants, injuring one.

The officers have become political pawns of the federal agency, and a key
witness to the Nov. 13, 1993, incident is not credible, said agent Joseph N.
Dassaro, spokesman for the local chapter of the National Border Patrol Council.

The officers, who have worked for the Border Patrol from 2 years to 10 years,
have filed a request for an arbitration hearing to have the March 20 decision by
San Diego Border Patrol Chief Johnny Williams reversed.

"No criminal charges have been brought against these men at any time," Dassaro
said. "There's no evidence these agents committed what was alleged."

The agents are accused of chasing seven illegal border crossers into a marsh and
throwing rocks at them to force them out. One of the illegal immigrants was hit
on the head and received a gash.

"It is of paramount concern to me that everyone understand this behavior will
not be accepted at any level," Williams said Tuesday in a statement. "We expect
our officers to act in a professional manner consistent with our mission, and we
will accept nothing less."

After a rookie officer divulged the coverup, his truck was vandalized and he
received anonymous threats.

An internal investigation turned up no evidence to link the five agents to the
intimidation, said then-deputy chief William Veal, who has since been promoted
to chief of the El Paso, Texas, office.

Officials said the rookie agent was transferred to the U.S.-Canada border for
his safety.

Human rights activists frequently complain of heavy-handed tactics by agents,
including hair-pulling, kicking and verbal abuse. The Border Patrol generally
denies the claims.

But this time, Dassaro said, officials wanted to use the incident to show they
were cracking down on "rogue cops." Initial information given to the media
created a false impression the officers were guilty and put the agency in a
position where it would be difficult to retain them, he said.

"We're hoping someone outside the Border Patrol can look at the evidence
objectively without any fear of political ramifications," Dassaro said,
referring to the arbitration hearing, which has not yet been scheduled.

The injured illegal immigrant has a criminal history that calls his account into
question, Dassaro said.

On the night of the incident, the man told police he was 19 years old and had no
criminal record. In fact, he was 30 and had five prior arrests, said Jane Hahn,
the agents' lawyer. Four months later, he was arrested in San Diego for felony
auto theft, Hahn said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              60 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 30, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

28 ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS INJURED IN NAVY BRIG FIRE BASE SHUT DOWN: AUTHORITIES SAY
CIVILIAN INMATES TORCHED JAIL TO PROTEST CAFETERIA PRIVILEGES.

BYLINE: MATTHEW FORDAHL, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 634 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Illegal immigrants jailed in a Navy brig torched several mattresses Friday at
Miramar Air Station, panicking nearly 200 inmates and causing a disturbance that
shut down the base.

About 10 inmates, protesting what they claimed were inadequate cafeteria
privileges, ignited the smoky fires, injuring 28 people, U.S. Attorney Alan
Bersin said.

The 28 injured inmates were taken to hospitals for treatment of smoke
inhalation, Bersin said. The injuries were not believed to be life-threatening.

The fires were set about 12:30 p.m. Smoke could be seen rising from the brig on
the sprawling base. The fires were extinguished in just over an hour. It took a
little longer to quell the disturbance.

"It was started by a couple of inmates who thought they were not given ample
canteen privileges," Bersin said. "What they did not calculate is that the
facility would fill up with smoke, which it did rapidly.

"That's what led to the major disturbance and the upheaval in the institution.
It was a question of survival for the 174 inmates."

The inmates were moved into a brig yard, then transferred to Metropolitan
Correctional Center.

"The fire was never out of control. The brig was never in the hands of the
inmates. Order is completely restored at this point," Bersin said.

FBI investigating incident

The FBI was investigating the ruckus and will seek charges of attempted murder
and arson against the 10 who started the fires, Agent Bob Walsh said.

Authorities were still assessing damage to the brig, Bersin said.

San Diego police spokesman Dave Cohen said about 12 officers responded to assist
Navy officers.

There were 384 inmates in the jail - 174 civilian federal prisoners, mostly
illegal immigrants, and 210 incarcerated military personnel, said Cmdr. Steve
Burnett, a Navy spokesman.

The brig was opened to civilian inmates just a week ago. Burnett said the
rioters were illegal immigrants.

Overflow jail

Bersin last year got permission to use the stockade as a second jail for federal
inmates and criminal illegal immigrants to ease overcrowding at the downtown
federal detention center.

Miramar's brig holds prisoners from all branches of the military and bases
throughout Southern California.

U.S. Corrections Corp. of Kentucky has an $11 million contract with the U.S.
Marshal's Service to house civilian prisoners at the Navy Consolidated Brig
Miramar.

Raoul Cunningham, a spokesman for U.S. Corrections Corp., said as part of his
contract with the Marshal's Service he was prohibited from releasing any
information about the incident.

Company representatives did not return a telephone call after business hours
Friday.

The agreement between the marshal's service and the Navy marked the first
extensive use of a military jail to house civilian prisoners.

Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-San Diego, criticized opening the brig to
illegal immigrants.

"We knew this was going to happen. They've only been out there for one week.
We're just risking national security," he told KSDO radio.

Cunningham said the initial riot escalated into a fire and the rioters panicked.

There have been questions about the wisdom of having private firms run such
facilities after other detention center violence.

In June, about 300 immigrant inmates seized the Esmor Immigration Detention
Center in Elizabeth, N.J., and virtually destroyed it. Police regained control
about five hours later. The center was run by Esmor Corp. of Melville, N.Y., a
publicly traded company.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has five other privately run
detention centers: one each in Colorado, New York and Washington, and two in
Texas.

The INS decided not to reopen the Elizabeth facility, citing lack of confidence
in the private company's ability to run it.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Police get ready to enter the brig Friday to restore order at Miramar Air
Station.
[960330 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              61 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 3, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VIDEOTAPED BEATING INFLAMES TENSIONS DEBATES: ISSUES OF RACE, IMMIGRATION AND
BRUTALITY SURROUND INVESTIGATIONS.

BYLINE: Pamela Kramer, Mercury News Los Angeles Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1121 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


A television news videotape of two white sheriff's deputies beating two Mexicans
after a high-speed chase has reignited the highly flammable debates surrounding
illegal immigration, racism and police brutality in a region intimately familiar
with all three.

Talk radio lines lighted up with divisiveness Tuesday, even as the FBI swiftly
launched an investigation into the videotaped beating by Riverside County
sheriff's deputies. Protests and pronouncements came fast - and sometimes
furious - from Mexico City to Los Angeles to the White House.

"This is an international incident," Los Angeles Councilman Richard Alarcon
said. "This is not just our taking care of our own problem. This is a question
of whether we're going to maintain a level of respect on international fronts."

And on the home front, some spoke of the televised videotape as Rodney King all
over again - in different colors and in a state already torn along racial,
ethnic and class lines.

In Monday's videotape, a pickup truck reportedly packed with illegal immigrants
is seen pulling to the side of the road in the Los Angeles community of South El
Monte after an 80-mile pursuit that reached speeds of 100 mph. The truck
reportedly had evaded a Border Patrol checkpoint near Temecula in southern
Riverside County, and some witnesses said its driver sideswiped other vehicles.

There were conflicting reports about whether the camper shell disintegrated in
the wind or whether passengers dismantled it and threw pieces of it and other
debris at pursuing officers. The number of people in the truck - from 19 to 21 -
could not be confirmed.

In the videotape, captured by a news helicopter, the truck's occupants flee and
deputies are seen repeatedly beating one man with a baton and also dragging a
woman by her hair to the ground, throwing her head against the truck fender and
beating her.

The name of the man could not be confirmed. He was treated for a broken elbow,
and both he and the woman, Laticia Gonzalez Gonzalez, 32, suffered cuts and
bruises.

Gonzalez was released to her attorney, and the man was being held at a Riverside
County detention center.

Deputies placed on leave

The deputies - one with five years' experience, the other a 20-year veteran -
have been put on administrative leave pending an investigation.

"We didn't like what we saw. . . . We were embarrassed for our department," said
Sgt. Mark Lohman, a spokesman for the sheriff's department.

Besides the issue of police brutality, the case raises the specter of animosity
in California toward illegal immigrants - for some, giving new meaning to the
term "immigrant bashing."

There was no immediate information linking the immigration status of the truck
passengers to the beatings. But the climate fostered by Proposition 187, the
initiative denying rights to illegal immigrants, may have contributed to a
"mentality that it's OK to do it to certain segments of the population," said
Maria Anna Gonzales, a Riverside Latina activist. "What weapon did (the woman)
have under her hair that made it necessary to pull her by the hair?"

Said Armando Navarro, a long-time Latino organizer: "Not even animals are
treated in such a manner. . . . There's a lot of hate. There's no answer until
this country recognizes that it's not the immigrant creating economic crisis."

Proponents of Proposition 187 were vocal on talk radio and television shows,
sometimes offering support to the deputies. But one of the measure's co-authors
disputed claims that attitudes toward illegal immigration had anything to do
with the incident.

"Our ethnic nationalists are trying to make this an ethnic issue," said Ron
Prince, chairman of the Save Our State organization. "It had nothing to do with
whether these people are legal or not."

Prince cited some reports suggesting that the people in the truck dismantled a
cover on the pickup, throwing pieces into traffic to hamper the pursuit. "If
they were shooting at civilians," he said, "we would treat that rather
seriously. . . . Each person should be charged with assault with a deadly
weapon."

Concern and outrage

With the wide array of volatile issues raised by the videotape, response has
been swift and broad. In Washington, President Clinton was said to be concerned.

In Mexico, government officials sent a diplomatic note to the State Department
expressing their outrage over the matter.

"All the authorities, indeed all the people of Mexico, should look upon this act
with indignation and reprobation," said Sergio Aguayo, president of the Mexican
Academy of Human Rights. "The police officers must be brought to justice."

In Sacramento, Gov. Pete Wilson's office issued a statement saying Wilson had
seen part of the tape in which "two apparent" deputies struck two people. "From
the videotape, it certainly seems that excessive force was used," the statement
reads.

Ramona Ripston, director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern
California, blamed politicking by Wilson and presidential candidate Pat Buchanan
for nurturing an anti-illegal immigrant mentality in California.

But she said there is room for hope, based on the swift response of law
enforcement officials to the beatings. "As opposed to the Rodney King beating,
everybody is taking this seriously," Ripston said. Besides the local
investigation, the FBI announced it would investigate possible civil rights
violations.

What is adrenaline's effect?

One problem to study, law enforcement observers said, is the impact of
adrenaline on officers involved in high-speed chases.

Prominent Los Angeles criminal defense attorney Harland Braun said there may be
another, perhaps less obvious, factor that could exacerbate the adrenaline rush
in California: fear of the so-called "three strikes, you're out" law that
sentences third-time felony offenders to 25 years to life in prison. Born of
public fear of crime, the law may now be instilling fear in police, he said.

"The cops are beginning to have anecdotal evidence that people are willing to
fight to avoid the third strike," said Braun, who successfully defended one of
the officers in the federal King beating trial. "Three strikes means you (an
officer) might get a bullet in the head."

In an apt echo of King's statement when riots erupted after a Simi Valley jury
in King's first trial acquitted the four officers charged in his beating, many
activists are calling for people to "just get along" in joining forces to fight
the brutality and race issues that repeatedly steal the spotlight, in cases
ranging from King to O.J. Simpson.

"There cannot be meaningful change in this country unless Latinos understand we
cannot do it by ourselves," Navarro said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Esther Schrader of the Mexico City Bureau
contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Demonstrators outside the Los Angeles Federal Building on Tuesday condemn the
beating by deputies.
[960403 FR 16A 1; color]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
A Riverside County sheriff's deputy strikes an occupant of the truck.
[960403 FR 1A 2; color]
MAP: KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
South El Monte: High-speed chase ends
[960403 FR 16A 2; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              62 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 6, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RIVERSIDE COPS, ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS AND A WILD CHASE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 320 words


Y OUR account of the beating of two illegal immigrants by two Riverside County
sheriff's deputies (Page 1A, April 3) was very interesting reading indeed, given
the political and social climate that we are experiencing nowadays in
California.

I wonder how an old truck with a camper shell and overloaded with 3,000 pounds
(the approximate weight of 20 people in the back) could lead the deputies in a
high-speed chase that lasted more than an hour. If that was the case, it
warrants an investigation of the tactics that the sheriff's department and the
California Highway Patrol applied in this case. Or, better yet, the driver of
the truck should be given a wild card entry in the Indianapolis 500.

If the truck had been stopped early, which should have been no sweat, this would
not have become an incident of international proportions, exacerbating racial
problems that affect us all in California.

- Pedro de la Serna
Sunnyvale
L ET me get this straight: A bunch of supposedly responsible adults decide to
illegally cross an international border - breaking laws. Then the driver decides
to do this by speeding through the inspections zones, undoubtedly endangering
the lives of many. Then this overloaded (20 persons in the back) and speeding
vehicle careens wildly, without regard for drivers and passengers anywhere -
sideswiping some. This is also illegal. Worse, debris is flying off the vehicle,
or it is being hurled. Have you ever seen people killed or injured by flying
debris? I have. It's not pretty.

Yet we are all supposed to feel sorry for the poor illegal immigrants who might
have been beaten up.

Legal immigration? Yes, it is good. Accepting political refugees from brutal
regimes? Yes, to that also. Accepting illegal immigrants for purely selfish
economic reasons, who show no regard for life or law for anyone but themselves?
No thanks.

- Cecilia L. Fabos-Becker
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTER

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              63 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 7, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRAGEDY STOLEN TRUCK BELIEVED CRAMMED WITH SUSPECTED ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS 7 KILLED
IN TRUCK CRASH NEAR BORDER

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA


A stolen truck crammed with suspected illegal immigrants overturned on a rural
road while being followed by Border Patrol agents Saturday, killing seven men
and injuring 18 others.

The crash occurred about 5:30 a.m. when the driver lost control of the truck on
a curvy, hilly road and it overturned in a gully, crushing its cab.

"When we pulled up, we had people all over the bank," said Riverside County fire
Capt. Tom Drayer."

One survivor was flown to a hospital with serious head injuries; the extent of
the others' injuries was not immediately known. Firefighters found one man with
a leg injury in a nearby avocado orchard.

The identities of the dead and injured weren't immediately known, although all
were men between the ages of 20 and 30, Drayer said.

The driver sped up after being followed by the agents for about 12 miles. The
agents were not chasing the truck and did not flash lights or sound a siren,
said California Highway Patrol Officer Ralph Martinez.

It wasn't immediately clear if the driver was among those killed or whether he
knew the Border Patrol agents were behind him.

The accident happened less than a week after a truck filled with illegal
immigrants was chased from the Temecula area over 80 miles to South El Monte in
Los Angeles County. The chase ended with the videotaped beating of two illegal
immigrants by Riverside County sheriff's officers.

The truck involved in Saturday's accident overturned on a two-lane paved road in
the Riverside County community of Santa Rosa, a rugged area filled with citrus
and avocado orchards northwest of Temecula. Temecula is about 80 miles southeast
of Los Angeles.

Border Patrol agents were monitoring an area about 12 miles southwest of the
crash site when they spotted the pickup truck with Hawaii license plates and
decided to follow, but not chase the vehicle.

As they followed the truck, the agents discovered it had been reported stolen
Feb. 16 from San Diego County.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Emergency workers remove bodies from crash scene near the California-Mexico
border, above, where seven people were killed and 18 injured.
[960407 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: At right, emergency teams remove one of the injured from the pickup truck
which authorities say was crammed with suspected illegal immigrants.
[960407 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              64 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 7, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THOUSANDS JAM L.A. STREETS TO PROTEST BEATINGS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Thousands of chanting, sign-waving demonstrators jammed downtown streets
Saturday, demanding justice in the wake of the videotaped beating of two illegal
immigrants by Riverside sheriff's deputies.

Social, labor and political activists, immigrants and other residents marched
through the streets to City Hall, where they shouted "Justicia!" and carried
signs with messages including "Police Abuse is a Crime" and "Justice and
Equality Now." The peaceful crowd was estimated at 6,000, police said.

The event followed almost a week of smaller protests in the wake of the incident
Monday, when television news helicopters broadcast images of two Riverside
County sheriff's deputies clubbing two illegal immigrants after a high-speed
freeway chase.

Protesters called for the arrest and prosecution of deputies Tracy Watson and
Kurtis Franklin, who were suspended with pay.

The two immigrants who were beaten - Alicia Sotero Vazquez and Enrique Funes
Flores - were released from an undisclosed hospital Friday, the Los Angeles
Times reported Saturday. The couple were invited by actor Marlon Brando to stay
at his home.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              65 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 7, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PRENATAL BENEFITS TARGETED PROGRAM FOR IMMIGRANTS MAY BE CUT

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1207 words


Elvira, a 19-year-old Mexican woman who is six months' pregnant, is an illegal
immigrant who crossed the border at Tijuana two years ago. But her prenatal
visits to the Gardner Health Center in central San Jose are solidly legal,
thanks to a program Gov. Pete Wilson once praised as a good investment but now
wants to cancel.

The Wilson administration now contends that providing prenatal care to
immigrants costs California money by inducing them to cross the border expressly
for the benefits. As part of his strategy to implement Proposition 187, Wilson
wants to deny undocumented immigrants services that cost the state $67 million a
year.

Denying benefits possibly more costly

But medical professionals warn that denying such benefits could cost the state
as much as $227.5 million in care for babies born unhealthy due to the lack of
prenatal attention for their mothers. Many also dispute the administration's
contention that eliminating such care would reduce illegal immigration.

Both sides point to facts that support their viewpoint.

Programs that help women bear healthy babies can indeed save as much as $2.60
for every $1 spent on prenatal care, according to the California Obstetrical
Access Study, which was carried out in 13 California counties from 1979-1982. A
1985 National Institute of Medicine study showed that cost savings could rise as
high as $3.38 for every $1 spent.

Medical costs increasing

And yet California's medical tab for health care for the undocumented is
growing. The state's cost of prenatal care for undocumented immigrants rose from
$17.7 million to $67.3 million during the five years ending June 31, 1995, an
increase of 263 percent.

Federal mandates require the state to pay for emergency health care to
undocumented immigrants through Medi-Cal. In 1987, the California legislature
adopted a program to pay for prenatal care for undocumented women, which the
Wilson administration now blames for a rise in births to undocumented immigrants
statewide from 51,749 in 1989, to 95,845 in 1992.

California's Secretary for Health and Welfare, Sandra R. Smoley, said this data
shows that government benefits encourage women to cross the border illegally to
deliver children.

She also cited a 1993 University of California report, "Access to Prenatal Care
for Hispanic Women of San Diego County," which concluded that "a full
three-quarters of the women who cross the border during their pregnancy
indicated their intention to do so again during the next pregnancy."

Most studies into the question of why immigrants come to the United States
indicate that the primary reason is to work, although the availability of
services may induce them to stay.

"The way I read most of these data, people don't come for the services, but the
availability of the services plays a big role in the decision to stay," said
Philip Martin, an agricultural economics professor at the University of
California, Davis.

Although some women come to the United States specifically to have their babies
here, Martin added, the number of such women is small in relation to total
immigration.

The research is accurate in the case of Elvira, a woman with long dark hair and
a small frame already overloaded with pregnancy. This daughter of an
agricultural worker left her family's village in Mexico's Michoacan state
because she could no longer afford to go to school.

"I came to work and have a better future," she said, sitting in the blue-walled
clinic in the Gardner neighborhood, where low-income women receive medical
checkups and advice.

The need for such services is acute among low-income women, who often don't know
simple ways to stay healthy, said Marilyn Cornier, director of comprehensive
perinatal services for Compre Care Health Center in East San Jose. Drinking lots
of fluids, for instance, can ward off urinary tract infections that can lead to
early delivery or other health problems.

"With a kidney infection, you could be in the hospital more than a week,"
Cornier said. "You could pay for an entire prenatal care (treatment) with more
than a week in the hospital."

Helping women take better care of themselves during pregnancy can save money on
the labor and delivery services Medi-Cal covers, and additional costs that
hospitals might have to bear for long-term care of infants with severe health
problems.

Thirty-five percent of all MediCal births in California are to undocumented
immigrants.

Births to illegal immigrant women in the year ending June 31, 1995, accounted
for $108 million of the $397 million the state spends for federally mandated
services for undocumented immigrants. Los Angeles county alone spent more than
$49 million for labor and delivery for undocumented immigrants.

In 1994, births to undocumented immigrants totaled 1,421 or 22 percent of
Medi-Cal funded births in Alameda County; 2,445 or 34 percent of such births in
Santa Clara County; 568 or nearly 40 percent of such births in Santa Cruz
County; and 1,252 or 50 percent of the Medi-Cal births in San Mateo County.

In the early years of the Wilson administration, the governor promoted health
care for undocumented immigrants. The logic was that since the women had other
reasons to be in the United States, and babies born on U.S. soil were U.S.
citizens, it made sense to help ensure that the new citizens would be healthy.

But the governor's logic changed by 1994, when he campaigned for Proposition
187, which sought to deny undocumented immigrants access to education and health
care. Wilson's support for the measure was based on his belief that the federal
government should pay for services for undocumented immigrants, and such
services attract more illegal immigrants.

A federal judge ruled last fall, however, that the state could only block
undocumented immigrants from access to programs funded solely with state money.
The governor recently proposed cutting the prenatal care program, which cost
$67.3 million in the same year and a state-funded program to provide long-term
nursing home care, which cost $6.4 million in the year ending June 31, 1995.

California taxpayers paid more than $747 million in state and federal dollars
for federally mandated health care for illegal immigrants in California in the
year ending June 31, 1995, Smoley said. Half is spent in Los Angeles, followed
by Orange County with 10 percent, San Diego with almost 5 percent and Santa
Clara County with 3.7 percent.

The majority of pregnancies seen at clinics are for low-income people at
high-risk, requiring attentive prenatal care to prevent complications, said Roy
Jimenez, vice president of community health for the Alviso-based Family Health
Foundation. Cutting Medi-Cal payments for prenatal care of undocumented
immigrants would not only devastate the clinics' caseloads, but the resulting
health problems would devastate individuals and families as well, he said.

"If they are here and they are knocking on our door, it's the responsibility of
the government health-care clinic to respond to that need," he said. "To deny
that care is totally contrary to our philosophy. Our organization is struggling
with that."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM - MERCURY NEWS
Araceli Duran talks with a patient at the Gardner Health Center. Gov. Wilson
wants to end visits by illegal immigrants to such clinics.
[960407 LO 5B]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              66 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 7, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IRRESPONSIBILITY AND RACISM IN IMMIGRANT BEATING

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7C

LENGTH: 392 words


AS an American citizen of Mexican heritage I found the beating of the two
Mexican nationals by the Riverside County Sheriff's deputies to be excessive and
unneccessarily brutal.

But while I support legal immigration and understand the needs of illegal
immigrants, I feel violent offenders should not be rewarded. These undocumented
workers lost my support when they endangered innocent lives in their reckless
flight from the border. The thought that one of the beating victims is suing for
$10 million is obscene. When did we start rewarding criminals for getting
caught?

The deputies were wrong and should be fired for their unprofessional conduct.
The Mexican nationals were also wrong for placing their freedom above our own
public safety. The beating victims should receive an apology and a one-way
ticket back to Mexico. Any other response will just invite others to imitate
this unfortunate incident.

- Michael Alvarado
Santa Clara
THE illegal immigrants were wrong in fleeing law enforcement. They endangered
other motorists, themselves and police. Also, law enforcement was dead wrong in
the beating of the two individuals who remained at the scene. Apparently police
have learned nothing from the Rodney King incident. Maybe police feel immune to
successful prosecution and with good reason. How often are police found guilty
of using excessive force? Rarely.

Let's call this beating just what it was . . . racism fueled by anti-immigrant
hysteria. The Rodney King and immigrant beatings are nothing extraordinary. Ask
Latinos and blacks if police beatings are an aberration. I would say beatings
such as what we saw by the Riverside sheriff's deputies occur with some
regularity. The only reason they create such a stir is that they're caught on
videotape.

- Richard Chavez
Union City
WHEN the Mercury News first reported on the beating by Riverside County deputies
("Immigrants' beating videotaped," Page 3B, April 2) I wasn't surprised.

In light of the anti-immigrant rhetoric of the election season and the
racially-motivated Proposition 187 campaign, perhaps voters should start
questioning what kinds of ideologies they espouse when voting for measures that
promote hatred. Moreover, perhaps elected officials should start taking
responsibility for the messages that they spread.

- David Herrera
Stanford

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS, E-MAIL & FAXES

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
San Fernando Valley residents protest Monday's police beating of illegal
immigrants.
[960407 ED 7C 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              67 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 10, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

60-MILE MARCH PROTESTS BORDER VIOLENCE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 383 words

DATELINE: TEMECULA


College students set out Tuesday on a march to the U.S.-Mexico border to protest
the clubbing of a Mexican couple by U.S. lawmen and a fatal crash involving
illegal immigrants fleeing the Border Patrol.

"We want to march to the border . . . to show what's going on in honor of the
thousands of people who make the trip, who have risked their lives not to leech
off this country but to come and live as human beings," said Angel Cervantes, a
leader of the Four Winds Student Movement.

More than a dozen marchers started a 60-mile trip on Highway 395, a winding road
east of the Interstate 15 immigration checkpoint in Temecula.

The high-speed chase of illegal immigrants that ended in the couple's beating
April 1 began near Temecula. Saturday's crash, which killed seven, also occurred
in the area.

The marchers plan to cover 15 miles a day and sleep in campgrounds.

Elsewhere in response to the beatings by Riverside County sheriff's deputies,
Latino community leaders in San Diego said they were launching an informal
project to monitor interaction between law enforcement officials and Latinos.

"Every Latino will begin to carefully watch every action by law enforcement
officials," said David Villadolid, vice president of the Chicano Federation's
board of directors.

If Latinos are seen being pulled over by police, people should stop and observe,
Villadolid said, suggesting the encounters also be filmed.

Community leaders unveiled an open letter to law enforcement officials, Border
Patrol officials and elected representatives including President Clinton.

The letter called for an apology, in Spanish and English, from Riverside County
Sheriff Larry Smith and a halt to high-speed chases until their efficacy is
re-evaluated.

Meanwhile, in a letter sent Monday to U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and state
Attorney General Dan Lungren, members of the Latino and immigrant community
requested an emergency briefing on the federal and state investigations of both
incidents.

Seven men were killed and 18 others injured Saturday when a pickup truck eluding
Border Patrol agents overturned near Temecula. All were undocumented workers
from Mexico, said a Border Patrol spokesman.

Representatives for Reno and Lungren said the letter had not yet been received.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              68 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 13, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO OUGHT TO IMPROVE HUMAN RIGHTS AT HOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 301 words


L AWMAKERS in Mexico are condemning the recent beating of illegal immigrants in
Riverside County and demanding that President Ernesto Zedillo make a list of
human rights violations committed against Mexicans in the United States.

Mexican politicians ought to look inward, at Mexico's litany of human rights
abuses, rather than harping after our relatively small problems in the United
States.

According to the U.S. State Department report, "Mexico, Human Rights Practices -
1995," you do not have to be an illegal immigrant in Mexico to look forward to
systematic, violent, extrajudicial (i.e., criminal) treatment at the hands of
Mexican law enforcement authorities. Mexican citizens are routinely beaten,
tortured, raped, robbed and denied due process by their own police and military.

Of course, illegal immigrants to Mexico are not treated nearly as well as the
Mexican citizens. In 1995 many illegal immigrants were robbed or had their
valuables extorted by police. Some were raped and tortured by police. There are
reports that some illegal immigrants are used for slave labor on Mexican farms.
Mexico's policy is to deport all illegal immigrants that are known to the
authorities. In 1995 over 83,000 illegal immigrants from Guatemala, many of whom
were fleeing a civil war and probable death, were deported.

It is very rare for mistreated immigrants in Mexico to file human rights abuse
charges against the Mexican authorities. However, should any immigrant be brave
enough to file charges of rights violation against the police, the case is
dismissed as soon as the plaintiff is deported.

It seems to me the height of hypocrisy for the Mexican government to point at
the United States and scream "fire,"' when its own backyard is engulfed in
flames.

- David C. Newkirk
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
A page devoted to letters

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              69 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 17, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOVERNOR'S EFFORTS TO TARGET PRE-NATAL AND NURSING HOME CARE ARE CRUEL AND
UNJUSTIFIED WILSON KEEPS UP THE PROP. 187 BULLY ACT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 549 words


PETE Wilson is trying to resurrect the worst of Proposition 187. He would deny
medical check-ups for pregnant women who are illegal immigrants, and he would
pull the plug on the few undocumented elders living out their last days in
California nursing homes.

Unborn children and fragile oldsters: That's who's sinking this great state, our
governor would have us believe. And he thinks he has found an opening to
implement his harsh policy.

A federal judge ruled that Prop. 187's provisions limiting rights and benefits
to illegal immigrants could not be applied to programs involving federal funds,
so the governor went scrounging for services funded entirely by the state. He
came up with pre-natal care and long-term nursing care.

To justify this, he has dredged up the bogus "welfare magnet" argument. Four
years ago, he said poor people from callous states like Texas were pouring into
California for its generous welfare checks. He had no evidence, and the
available research still proves him wrong. Now he imagines boatloads of pregnant
women and sickly old folks crossing the Rio Grande.

Sure, some women come here only to have babies, but their number is small. Most
come to work, or because their husbands work here.

Wilson says illegal immigrants received $67.3 million in pre-natal care and $6.4
million for nursing home care last year. Those numbers are suspect because
hospitals are notorious for misreporting citizens with no health insurance as
illegal immigrants. But even if the cost is correct, it is less than 0.16
percent of the state's $45 billion general fund.

Without prenatal care, more unhealthy babies would be born in emergency rooms at
much higher costs to California taxpayers. Wilson himself used to stress the
cost-effectiveness of this kind of care, before his priorities changed.

Polls indicate most Prop. 187 voters did not have Wilson's cruelty in their
hearts. For instance, a statewide Los Angeles Times poll showed the majority who
voted for the proposition simply wanted to send a message to the federal
government so it would act on illegal immigration. Only 2 percent said they
wanted to throw children out of school, although that was a Prop. 187 provision.

The feds appear to have gotten the wrong message. Instead of taking practical
measures to curb illegal immigration, Republicans in Congress now want to deny
schooling to undocumented children nationwide. Law enforcement officials are
appalled, envisioning all those outcast kids roaming city streets all day.

Wilson loves to blame the federal government for illegal immigration, but he
refuses to take constructive action well within his power. For example, he could
help level the field between legal and undocumented workers by stepping up the
enforcement of labor, health and safety laws in the garment and agriculture
industries. That would reduce employers' incentive to hire undocumented workers
who won't complain about squalid or dangerous conditions.

Instead, Wilson has become a bully.

Denying prenatal care to an impoverished woman is wrong anytime, anywhere.
Throwing helpless old people out of nursing homes is wrong. We would rob our
state of its humanity by doing such terrible things to the weakest and most
defenseless people among us.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorial

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARRIE MAGUIRE
[Medical logo in pieces]
[960417 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              70 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 20, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOW SHOULD CALIFORNIA DEAL WITH ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 837 words


I AM a nursing student at a community clinic which serves primarily Hispanics. I
am concerned about Gov. Pete Wilson's proposed cuts to Medi-Cal coverage for
undocumented women during their pregnancies.

These women are also screened for tuberculosis, hepatitis and sexually
transmitted diseases. They are treated and educated about how to maintain their
own health while preventing the spread of disease. Often, we are able to
identify and treat other family members as well.

If clinics turn these women away when they seek prenatal care, are they going to
return for check-ups and immunizations for their children? If not, the children
may well carry pertussis, diphtheria, measles and mumps, not to mention
tuberculosis and hepatitis, into the community.

Provision of prenatal care to all women is a worthwhile investment in and of
itself. It is also at the center of maintaining good health in the larger
community. The well-being of everyone, rich or poor, may be affected by the
handling of this issue.

- Phyllis Ramey
Sunnyvale
DISREGARDING any of the actions of either police or the persons apprehended, I
was distracted by staff writer S.L. Bachman's eight references to "undocumented
immigrants." Wouldn't the proper reference be "illegal aliens?" (Local & State,
April 12).

When in the world are you folks going to recognize the fact that 59 percent of
the voters in our state voted for Proposition 187, not because of racism, but
because those of us who pay the bulk of the taxes to feed, house and medicate
anyone who shows up within our borders just cannot afford this anymore and are
just plain fed up?.

- John C. Sullivan
San Jose
I FEEL sorry for Richard C. Brown. He has lost an essential part of his
humanity, the ability to feel compassion for utterly helpless people when police
officers attack them with billy clubs (Letters, April 13).

Many citizens have been tricked by unscrupulous politicians into focusing their
anger about the sorry state of American civic life on scapegoats rather than on
the politicians who should be doing something to solve them. If Californians
want to solve real problems - creating high-paying jobs, educating young people,
allocating precious resources, repairing roads, finding ways to deal cost
effectively with crime, putting fairness back into the property tax system -
they need to start thinking for themselves instead of letting politicians focus
their attention somewhere else.

Illegal immigrants come here to work in the lowliest jobs we have to offer. They
have a much higher rate of labor force participation than citizens. They pay all
the taxes citizens pay. On the other hand, because they are non-citizens, they
are ineligible for virtually all welfare programs. And of course, they can be
deported at any time. It's a strangely twisted thought process that leads Mr.
Brown to conclude that these people are oppressing him.

- Jim Jatczynski
Santa Cruz
DAVID Hayes-Bautista and Gregory Rodriguez's piece comparing U.S.-born white
immigrants of the 1950s with Latino immigrants of today was interesting but
ultimately irrelevant. (Opinion, April 15).

They claimed that, besides race and language, Latino and prior white immigrants
are the same. Whether or not immigrant advocates care to admit it, not speaking
the dominant language is a significant barrier to success, and the cost of
dealing with a sizable population not conversant in English cannot be simply
waved away with platitudes.

This is not 1950. California has 30 million residents and increasing pressures
on the environment, economy and infrastructure that did not exist 40 years ago.

Honest people would not argue that the newcomers are not hardworking. However,
the fact is that before the mid-1960s, social programs we now take for granted
did not exist. As the authors stated, the 1950s were a period of booming growth
in the Golden State, and many of the good jobs available were open to the
semi-skilled and semi-educated. That is not the case today.

Does it make sense to encourage the same patterns of immigration in a period
where growth is mainly in areas requiring high levels of education and training?
As an immigrant myself, I am the last person to bash immigrants. I agree that
these Mexican newcomers are industrious people who deserve a chance for a better
life. But we need to be responsible and, more important, honest about the costs
and drawbacks of unfettered immigration.

- David W.L. Budd
Fremont
THE brutal assault by Riverside County sheriff's deputies against people who
broke the law by illegally crossing the border and failing to stop was not an
aberration. It was business as usual. The difference is that a camera captured
their actions. Nor was the Rodney King case an abnormality of police misconduct.
Illegal or not, human beings should not be used as pinata practice by so-called
peace officers.

We in the Latino community are not alone. Our votes count. We demand justice.

- Arturo Borrego
San Leandro

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              71 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 27, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE CARNAGE NEAR THE BORDER OVERLOADED VAN CRASHES

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 392 words

DATELINE: ALPINE


A van packed with about 24 people crashed near an immigration checkpoint Friday,
killing at least two passengers and injuring others, authorities said.

The U.S. Border Patrol, which had tried to stop the van, said the passengers
most likely were illegal immigrants.

"The first impression is that they appear to be undocumented migrants, but that
has not been confirmed at this point," said Phil Konstantin, a spokesman for the
California Highway Patrol.

"At this point we're more concerned about injuries than immigration status."

A Border Patrol van pulled up to the overloaded vehicle at 10:45 a.m. and
motioned for the driver to pull over, said CHP spokesman Art Athans.

Agents uninjured

Instead, the driver braked and swerved into the Border Patrol vehicle.

The van then ran off the road, flipping over at least four times.

"Bodies were laying all over - it was like a plane crash," said Mike Vacio, one
of the first Alpine firefighters on the scene.

Both the Border Patrol vehicle and the van appeared to be traveling at the speed
limit of 70 mph, officials said.

The agents were not injured, said agency spokesman Ron Henley.

At least three of the van's passengers fled, but two were later found, Athans
said.

The conditions of the 19 injured were not immediately available, although one
was in severely critical condition, Konstantin said.

Alpine is 24 miles east of San Diego.

Second incident in month

Earlier this month, eight illegal immigrants were killed and 17 injured when an
overloaded pickup crashed near Temecula, at another immigration checkpoint in
Riverside County. The checkpoints are set up on major roads north of the Mexican
border to screen traffic.

On April 1, two illegal immigrants in another packed van were videotaped being
beaten by Riverside County Sheriff's deputies after a long freeway chase.

Despite these incidents, the federal government will not back down from its
unprecedented 18-month-old crackdown on illegal immigration that includes more
agents and more highway checkpoints along the Southwest border, said Ana Cobian,
a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Alan Bersin, the federal "border czar."

"It's too soon to say if this is an increasing trend or there's greater
awareness from the public," Cobian said. "It is harder to cross the border, so
the risks are higher.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2), Map;
MAP: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS
Truck crash
[960427 CA 3B 5]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Rescue workers, above, attend man who was riding in a van, background,
[960427 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
below, believed crammed with illegal immigrants, which reportedly crashed after
swerving into a Border Patrol van, foreground.
[960427 CA 3B 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              72 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 1, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN CRASH WEIGH LEGAL ACTION AGAINST U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Lawyers for illegal immigrants involved in a deadly freeway crash in Alpine are
trying to determine whether they can file a civil claim against the U.S. Border
Patrol, the Mexican consulate's office said.

Lawyers are talking to most of the 19 illegal immigrants who survived Friday's
crash on a two-lane stretch of Interstate 8, Lourdes Sandoval, a spokeswoman for
the Mexican consul general in San Diego said Tuesday.

Two people inside the 1979 Dodge van died when it collided with a Border Patrol
van, and two others are in critical condition at area hospitals.

"We're in the process of contacting legal advisers, who will turn over all
statements, written and recorded, of all the people involved, so they can
analyze the possibility of a civil liability," Sandoval said.

The vans collided after the Border Patrol tried to pull over the overloaded
Dodge.

It was still unknown Tuesday whether the driver was among the dead.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              73 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 1, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLUBBED IMMIGRANT WANTS DEPUTY'S REPORT MADE PUBLIC

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Lawyers for an illegal immigrant who was clubbed by a Riverside County sheriff's
deputy said Tuesday they want a voice in the deputy's civil rights lawsuit to
ensure his report on the beating is public.

The team representing Alicia Sotero Vasquez filed a motion Monday asking to
intervene in Deputy Tracy Watson's lawsuit, which demands that the report be
kept out of the hands of investigators.

The suit was "an obvious pre-emptive strike designed to remove a significant
piece of evidence," according to the motion, which will be heard on May 23 by a
federal judge in Riverside.

"It's intended . . . to hide from the public, from Alicia Sotero and from the
criminal justice system the fruits of his illegal conduct," lawyer Dan Stormer
said at a news conference.

Sotero's lawyers also want to intervene to prevent a possible deal by
authorities hoping to avoid bad publicity, he added.

The idea is to "make room for the victim," said Mark D. Rosenbaum of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California.

Helicopter news crews on April 1 videotaped Watson and Deputy Kurtis Franklin
hitting an unresisting Sotero and Enrique Funes Flores, who had been in a pickup
full of illegal immigrants from Mexico. The truck led deputies on a wild 80-mile
chase from near a Temecula Border Patrol checkpoint.

Watson, who denies using excessive force, sued Riverside County on April 17 for
violation of his civil rights. Watson claims his superiors coerced him to make
an incriminating report by refusing to let him speak to a lawyer or review the
beating videotape before he wrote it.

"I find it interesting that the ACLU would take the position that a coerced
statement made in a criminal investigation should be allowed to be used against
anybody in the furtherance of 'the truth,' " said Dan Swift, president of the
Riverside Sheriff's Association.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Dan Stormer, lawyer for an illegal immigrant clubbed by a Riverside
County sheriff's deputy, wants a voice in his civil lawsuit.
[960501 CA 3B 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              74 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 2, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILL WOULD CLAMP DOWN ON ILLEGAL JOB-SEEKERS SENATE VOTES FOR STANDARDIZED
NATIONALITY IDENTITY DOCUMENTS

BYLINE: David Hess and Rory J. O'Connor - Mercury News Washington, Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 653 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted Wednesday to require job seekers to produce stronger proof of
identity and nationality, as senators inched closer toward adopting a bill to
clamp down on illegal immigration.
Under the bill, national standards would be developed for drivers' licenses,
birth certificates and other key forms of identification as a way of combating
the proliferation of phony documents used by illegal immigrants.

The measure touches on one of the most politically charged issues in the nation:
how to deal with the influx of people from other countries, and the public
spending to feed, house, educate and hospitalize them.

The issue of immigration is especially heated in California, which has more
immigrants - legal or illegal - than any other state in the union. The tension
created by their arrival has resulted in statewide efforts to deny many
immigrants benefits such as public education, health care and welfare payments.

California is one of the few states directly named in the bill: the Senate would
set aside millions to build a huge immigrant-stopping fence along 14 miles of
the border with Mexico near San Diego. And many of the thousands of new border
patrol agents would be assigned to combat the flow of illegal immigrants
crossing into the U.S. from Mexico.

California has played a strong hand in shaping the bill. Silicon Valley business
interests had already succeeded in stripping the bill of most of its provisions
dealing with restricting legal immigration and the hiring of foreign workers.
They convinced the Senate Judiciary committee to split those provisions into a
separate bill, arguing that closing the door to high-skilled foreign workers
would put the U.S. high-tech industry at a disadvantage against competitors
around the world.

The Republican-sponsored bill would beef up the border patrol, speed the
deportation of people attempting to enter the United States with counterfeit
documents, and deny a host of health and welfare benefits to legal aliens.

On the verification issue, the bill would raise the standard of proof of
eligibility for working in the United States.

It would do so by requiring the attorney general to establish uniform standards
for birth certificates and drivers' licenses to make them harder to forge. They
are the key documents that employers use to verify the identity and nationality
of job applicants.

Under existing law, 29 different documents - ranging from passports to picture
IDs - can be used by employers to prove to immigration agents that the person
they hired is "legal."

This profusion of documents has made it far easier for counterfeiting rings to
make legitimate-looking documents for job-seekers to present to businesses.

By sharply limiting the number and type of acceptable documents, the bill's
sponsors and immigration authorities hope that it will be more difficult to rely
on substandard IDs as proof of job eligibility.

Critics complained the bill would impose heavy burdens on U.S. businesses and
add to federal red tape. They also charged it could infringe on civil liberties.

An attempt by Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., to strip this provision from the
bill was killed 54-46.

The Senate also adopted an amendment by Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., to outlaw
female genital mutilation, which sponsors indicated is practiced by some
immigrant cultures in the United States. Reid initially wanted to make the
threat of such mutilation a basis for a woman to seek asylum in this country,
but he was thwarted by the bill's sponsors. They feared the provision would open
a floodgate of immigration from all over the world.

The immigration measure, which had been bogged down for days over an
unsuccessful Democratic effort to tack on an amendment increasing the minimum
wage, differs in a few key respects from a House-passed bill. A conference
committee will be convened to hash out the differences.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              75 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    MAY 3, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE BILL HITS ILLEGAL ENTRANTS 97-3 VOTE: TIGHTENED BORDERS, BENEFIT CURB
BACKED

BYLINE: S.L. Bachman and David Hess Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Senate voted overwhelmingly Thursday to tighten the borders against illegal
immigration, clamp down on illegal immigrants seeking jobs and sharply restrict
benefits for immigrants who enter the country legally.
The vote now puts the Republican-led Congress in a possible showdown with
President Clinton over immigration that could heat up the presidential campaign
in California, the biggest prize of the 1996 election.

The Senate bill must be reconciled with legislation passed by the House earlier,
which includes a provision Clinton has vowed to veto. The provision, which would
shut out illegal immigrant children from public education, was not in the Senate
bill.

But it could emerge in the bill produced by the conference committee. The
presumptive GOP presidential nominee, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, endorsed
the concept while campaigning in California.

The Senate bill, approved on a 97-3 vote, was hailed by its chief sponsor, Alan
Simpson, R-Wyo., as having "everything we've ever talked about for 17 years
regarding illegal immigration."

The legislation calls for the hiring of 1,000 new Border Patrol agents over each
of the next four fiscal years, which would dramatically increase the current
force of 5,100 agents. The bill also calls for the construction of triple
fencing along portions of a 14-mile stretch of the California-Mexico border.

It would crack down on the fraudulent documents that allow many illegal
immigrants to work and sharply curb the distribution of federal benefits - from
welfare to student financial aid.

Smugglers would face far-tougher penalties under the legislation, as would those
who engage in the multimillion-dollar business of manufacturing fake driver's
licenses, birth certificates and other identification cards. The bill also calls
for more detention facilities for those caught in the country illegally, and
streamlined deportation procedures to remove them more quickly.

Database verification

In the workplace, the bill would set up a series of pilot programs in which
employers could tap into a government database to verify the immigration status
of new hires. This initiative is vehemently opposed by some critics fearful that
it is a dangerous step toward a Big Brother-style society.

Senators struck from the bill most of the provisions affecting legal immigrants,
including sharp cuts in immigration numbers. But the bill would sharply limit
federal benefits for non-citizens and would hold legal immigrants' sponsors
financially responsible for those they bring into the country.

If the public school provision eventually is included in the final version, it
could be popular in California. Two years ago, anti-illegal immigrant sentiment
swept to victory Proposition 187, which sought to exclude illegal immigrants
from public school and health services. Gov. Pete Wilson made crackdowns on
illegal immigration a centerpiece of his successful campaign for a second term.

Yet while public sentiment against illegal immigration remains strong, analysts
say the white-hot emotions of 1994 have dimmed, raising questions about how
potent the immigration issue might be in the presidential campaign.

In California, immigration "certainly has dropped in salience in the last couple
months. Some of that is the catharsis of Prop. 187 is over, some of it is the
economy beginning to recover," said Bruce Cain of the Institute of Government
Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.

'Son of Prop. 187' issues

Two "son of Prop. 187" ballot initiatives - one denying automatic citizenship to
children born in the United States of undocumented mothers, the other requiring
the state to issue fraud-proof identity cards - failed to gain enough signatures
to win a place on the fall ballot.

Debate over the immigration legislation is far from over on the national level,
however. Supporters and opponents are sniping vigorously at the House and Senate
bills, as the legislation moves into the conference committee.

K.C. McAlpin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform
(FAIR), a national group pushing for tougher restrictions, called the bill "sham
reform, just more political eyewash. . . . It will have only a marginal impact
on the problem and most Americans will see little, if any, effect."

McAlpin was particularly critical of a decision by congressional leaders to
strip from the bill most provisions that would have curbed the number of legal
immigrants. He also said neither the House nor the Senate bill would do enough
to crack down on the counterfeit documentation of illegals.

Others say the immigration issue has been blown out of proportion by politicians
eager to divert attention from deep-seated economic and cultural tensions, and
that the new legislation will do little to address those concerns.

'Not that great a concern'

"Look, I don't advocate open borders," said Bill Ong Hing, a professor of
immigration law at Stanford University, "but illegal immigration is not that
great a concern to most Americans."

John Swenson, executive director of migration and refugee services for the U.S.
Catholic Conference, said the beefed-up Border Patrol will probably slow the
influx of illegal crossings.

But he predicted that other provisions in the bill would cause "huge problems"
for states and localities that must determine which immigrants are eligible for
services.

"It's going to cost local jurisdictions hundreds of millions of dollars to
enforce the law - money, I might add, that Congress did not provide to help the
locals," Swenson said.

The only senators to vote against the Senate bill were Democrats Paul Simon of
Illinois, Bob Graham of Florida and Russell Feingold of Wisconsin.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              76 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    MAY 6, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE HAS SENSIBLE PROPOSALS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 427 words


THE U.S. Senate passed an immigration bill last week that isn't perfect, but it
proposes some sensible remedies for illegal immigration. This bill has hope.
Meanwhile, conservatives in the House of Representatives prefer the tired, old
hysterical approach.

The sensible parts of the Senate bill, which was passed 97-3, would double the
number of Border Patrol agents and equip them better. The bill also increases
the penalties for smuggling immigrants and producing fraudulent documents. And
it outlaws female genital mutilation, a problem that is particular to a
relatively few number of African immigrants.

We are less enthusiastic about computerized checks on a worker's status. These
measures risk turning employers into federal immigration cops, a development
that would outstrip the problem by miles. After all, only 2 percent or less of
the total American workforce is here illegally.

Nor could the Senate resist two wild responses: An ugly and unnecessary 14-mile
triple fence near San Diego, and stricter health and welfare limits for legal
immigrants.

The second provision is aimed primarily at elderly immigrants who collect
supplemental Social Security checks because their adult children know how to
milk the welfare system. A better and simpler way to curb these abuses is to
enforce current law that requires sponsors of immigrants to support them.
There's no need for the hatchet treatment.

Stripped of the nasty stuff, the Senate bill could reduce illegal immigration
without trampling on individual rights.

While the House bill contains some sensible measures, it includes a senseless
one pushed personally by Speaker Newt Gingrich. He would deny public schooling
to foreign children who are here illegally.

Californians have been around the block on this one with Proposition 187. The
post-election surveys showed that the overwhelming majority of voters, even
among those who said yes to 187, didn't want to throw undocumented children out
of school. Kids kicked out of school will be kids out on the street. And
punishing them for a situation they have no control over is inhumane and unfair.
Many pro-187 voters, if not most, knew the U.S. Supreme Court had upheld public
schooling for undocumented children in a 1982 Texas case. These voters were
simply sending a loud message that government had to do something about illegal
immigration.

Senate and House members will meet soon to reconcile their two bills. If the
senators can't correct the House's extremism, then President Clinton should get
out his veto pen.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials: The opinion of the Mercury News

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: John MacDonald - Los Angeles Times
[960506 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              77 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 7, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER PATROL TARGETS SMUGGLERS OF HUMAN MISERY

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Pickup trucks, moving vans, even a portable toilet.

There are innumerable methods illegal immigrants use to gain a stealthy passage
into the United States, but the vehicle crammed with people seems to be the
method of choice lately.

Witness the recent rash of high-profile car wrecks and chases on Southern
California roads and freeways. All told, 10 illegal immigrants were killed and
dozens of others were injured in four such incidents during the past five weeks
in Riverside and San Diego counties. All the vehicles were packed with illegal
immigrants, mostly from Mexico.

Truck flips

The most recent incident occurred Sunday when a speeding truck carrying up to 30
illegal immigrants flipped onto its roof, partially smashing the cab and
splintering the camper shell.

Three were injured, 10 were arrested and the rest got away on foot. The only
person who remained hospitalized Monday was Florentino Gartica-Moso, 29, who was
in good condition at Inland Valley Medical Center with a broken right leg, said
hospital spokesman Dan Dredla.

Desperation job search

Human rights advocates say the accidents are fueled by immigrants' desperation
to cross the border for jobs in America. But those in the U.S. Justice
Department whose job it is to protect the nation's borders - from rank- and-file
agents to the U.S. attorney - say human smugglers are at fault for preying on
the desperate.

"The people who are to blame are the smugglers who have a total disregard for
human life," U.S. attorney spokeswoman Ana Cobian said in a recent interview.
"We cannot look the other way and not prosecute these people."

An 18-month-old beef-up of agents and equipment along the San Diego border,
immigrants rights advocates say, has forced people to pay up to $600 to
smugglers to guide them over the border, usually on foot.

Once they are in the United States, the illegal immigrants are taken to a
prearranged pickup point, where they are loaded into the truck, van or car.

Sometimes even more obscure means are used. In March, Border Patrol agents
discovered 17 illegal immigrants crammed into a portable toilet being hauled
behind a truck on Interstate 8.

Pickup points are at out-of-the-way locations off a freeway, highway or road,
said Ron Henley, spokesman for the U.S. Border Patrol in San Diego.

From there, the immigrants are transported either directly to Los Angeles or to
"drop houses" in the San Diego area.

On the drive to Los Angeles, the vans must try to get past checkpoints set up by
the U.S. Border Patrol on freeways, highways and secondary roads.

These checkpoints can be as much as 70 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico border or
as much as 100 miles east of Los Angeles in the desert.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Police say this pickup truck was carrying up to 30 illegal immigrants when it
flipped Sunday near Lake Elsinore, seriously injuring two.
[960507 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              78 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 16, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT ABOUT OUR OWN KIDS? SCHOOLS DON'T HAVE ROOM FOR ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: ELTON GALLEGLY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 720 words


ONE OF THESE days, President Clinton is going to have to sit down at his desk,
pen in hand, and decide whether he cares more about illegal immigrants or
American taxpayers, about lawbreakers who should be escorted out of the country
or the citizens saddled with providing them a free public education.

Two months ago, 333 members of the House answered this question when they voted
in favor of an immigration bill containing an amendment, which I sponsored, that
would allow states to decide for themselves whether to educate illegals. States
that wish to provide this public benefit could continue to do so. States not
interested in so rewarding those who have entered the country illegally would
have the right to make that decision.

All of this seems simple enough to the average American, but President Clinton's
decision-making process on this issue will most likely be anything but. That is
because in the days and weeks since the House vote, and now in anticipation of
reconciling the House and Senate immigration bills, advocates, editorial writers
and apologists for illegal immigration have taken issue with the reform
legislation on a whole range of fronts. Nearly all have characterized my
original amendment as one that would "deny" education to illegals, the clear
implication being that we are withholding something that is somehow deserved,
that we are isolating a group of people from a public benefit they have
rightfully come to expect.

I find it truly interesting and illustrative that no one has chosen to describe
this legislation as what it actually is: an attempt to give states the ability
not to reward illegal immigrants by offering them a free education in exchange
for violating federal immigration laws.

Another curious element of the public discourse on this issue is that it has
been overwhelmingly focused on the illegal immigrants themselves: What would
happen if they couldn't get an education? How would it affect their job
prospects and earnings later in life? Would they just join gangs and become
criminals?

None of the people so vexed by the potential impact on the illegals has had even
one kind word for the taxpayers who are forced to pay for all this goodwill and
social engineering. As far as I know, no one who has assessed the impact of this
legislation has commented on the sorry state of California's public schools,
overcrowded and overburdened by - you guessed it - illegal immigrants.

Many critics have defined this issue in terms of our supposed desire to "punish"
illegals into the next generation. Well, what about the generation of legal
immigrants who are today being punished because of the illegal immigrants who
are crowding the public schools and degrading the quality of education? Don't
they count? Or does the fact that they are legally entitled to attend our public
schools somehow render their fates secondary to those of the illegals we seek to
so philanthropically embrace.

As a product of Los Angeles public schools, I remember a time when California
was a model that the rest of the country aspired to. Today, California's schools
are in crisis, an example to be avoided instead of emulated. Ask yourself how
bad things have to be for the National Education Association and the California
Teachers Association to undertake a statewide ad campaign, as they have recently
done, lamenting the effect of overcrowded classrooms on our public schools. The
CTA/NEA ads document the fact that California now ranks worst in the nation in
terms of class size. This is partly a result of the estimated 500,000 illegal
immigrants occupying public school classrooms.

Any discussion of illegal immigration must begin with the premise that folks who
break our laws should not be rewarded with jobs, public benefits or free
education. Even immigrant rights advocates concede the logic of this basic
point, although they are as unwilling as ever to support changes in the law that
would serve to apply it. Everyone is against illegal immigration, but try to
actually do something about it and you will find no shortage of people willing
to characterize reasonable, rational proposals as the wrong approach.

I say, and 332 of my colleagues in the House have agreed, that the only wrong
course of action would be to preserve the status quo.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Calif., is chairman of the Congressional Task Force on
Immigration Reform. He wrote this article for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: BARRIE MAGUIRE
[Kids under an American flag]
[960516 ED 8B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              79 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 23, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER FIRES LEFT BY ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS CAMPERS CUT THROUGH FORESTS TO EVADE
INCREASED PATROLS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 432 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


In an unexpected side-effect of increased border patrols near San Diego, illegal
immigrants are hiking unprepared into rugged wilderness and leaving a
potentially deadly trail of wildfires, authorities said Wednesday.

Fires have increased dramatically along the border this year, most of them
believed to have been started by immigrant campfires, state forest officials
said.

With hundreds of immigrants crisscrossing back-country canyons and fire
conditions worsening, authorities said they are concerned about the potential
for loss of natural resources, property and lives.

Hot weather feared

"Up until now, the weather has been with us," said Glen Newman, a fire chief for
the state Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. "Yet we know as the summer
wears on, it will be hotter and more difficult to put those fires out. And the
chances of people being killed or injured there are substantial."

Most illegal immigrants crossed roadways in the San Diego-Tijuana area until the
federal government began erecting fences and tightening border controls 18
months ago.

Since then, smugglers have begun leading immigrants into the Otay Mountain area
and other wilderness in eastern San Diego County, Newman said.

"They'll leave their campfires. They don't put them out properly," he said.

So far this year, there have been 201 border fires, up from 64 for all of last
year and 24 in 1994, he said. Fire investigators have traced at least 95 percent
of this year's fires to immigrants.

Last week, the U.S. Forest Service opened a checkpoint in the Cleveland National
Forest to try to apprehend illegal immigrants.

Not prepared for risks

The immigrants, ranging from young children to the elderly, are ill-prepared for
the risks, officials said. Some are told by smugglers that it's an hour's walk
to Highway 94; in truth, it takes at least 10 hours, Newman said.

"The scary part is these people are walking into areas where I won't send
firefighters to," said M.C. Dave Hillman, a CDF fire prevention chief in
Southern California.

Firefighters battling an Otay Mountain blaze earlier this month were approached
by immigrants desperate for food and water.

"We photographed hundreds of people walking through the brush area who were in
grave danger from the wildfire," Newman said.

With immigrants hiding under cypress and brush, firefighting efforts have become
more difficult and costly.

Where firefighters otherwise would set backfires or allow some fires to burn
themselves out, they must fight the blazes directly with hand crews and
retardant drops.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              80 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 25, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SELF-APPOINTED POSSE BOOTED OUT OF AIRPORT

BYLINE: Esther Schrader, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 900 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


FOR TWO years they lit up the border with car headlights to keep back illegal
immigrants.

Now this city's conservative forces have moved their "America First" battle to
San Diego's airport to stop undocumented Mexicans from flying off to new lives
across the United States.

In the past several weeks, members of "Roger's Airport Posse" (named for former
mayor and conservative talk show host Roger Hedgecock) prowled Lindbergh Field
wearing "U.S. Citizen Patrol" T-shirts, looking for people they suspected of
being undocumented. They stood at boarding gates to make sure that airline
agents followed FAA rules to combat terrorism and checked identification for all
passengers.

Then, Friday, the posse lost a skirmish. A judge ruled that posse members can
enter the terminals only to catch a plane or escort or meet someone - not to
look for illegal immigrants or talk to airline workers.

Judge William J. Howatt Jr. also ordered posse members to stay 100 yards from
members of the Chicano Federation, which has called posse members vigilantes and
accused them of trying to intimidate Latinos with their T-shirts.

Under Howatt's orders, areas have been set aside on the sidewalk outside the
terminals where the Airport Posse and the Chicano Federation can stand and
express their views on immigration.

TUESDAY, the Chicano Federation held a news conference outside the terminal to
denounce the posse, and a heated exchange ensued. The next day the San Diego
Unified Port District, which runs the airport, got a temporary injunction to
keep the posse out of the airport and away from the Chicano Federation.

About 150 people attended the tense hearing Friday on whether to extend the
injunction. Among them were white-supremacist Thomas Metzger and his supporters,
who engaged in a shouting match with Chicano activists beforehand.

When Latinos called Metzger a racist, he replied, "Of course we're racists,
we're proud to be racists."

Despite Friday's outcome, the immigration war will continue in this city sitting
uneasily at the heart of one of the busiest border crossings in the world.

More than 300 people have joined the posse since it was formed a month ago by
Hedgecock, who promotes the ad hoc group daily on the air. And at his urging,
dozens of people have donned the blue "U.S. Citizen Patrol" shirts and landed at
Lindbergh Field.

"They are criminals, they are criminals, they are coming into our country, and
if no one else is gonna stop them, we damn well are," said Virginia Crawford, a
72-year-old retiree from El Cajon.

"I got on a plane the other day and 11 aliens got on and one sat right next to
me. Well, pretty soon I started to itch," she said Wednesday outside the
terminal. "And I realized it was because he had fleas. We've got to make our
government realize there's a problem at the border, and it's spilling over into
our airplanes."

LATINOS boarding planes this week said the presence of the self-described posse
was unnerving.

"I don't feel safe here anymore," said Arturo Gonzalez, 53, a Tijuana
businessman on his way to Chicago. "This is not just an undocumented question.
It's a question of, can anyone be fair game at the airport?"

Human rights advocates said several posse members had stopped Latino-looking
passengers and demanded proof of citizenship.

"It's just an opening for them to harass Mexicans a bit, every person of Latino
appearance is open for harassment," said Claudia Smith, a lawyer with California
Rural Legal Assistance, which has asked the Justice Department to investigate
whether posse members are impersonating federal officers with their
official-looking shirts.

Posse members deny that they are intimidating or harassing passengers.

But on Hedgecock's World Wide Web home page, posse members have boasted of
preventing 14 undocumented immigrants from boarding a Chicago-bound United
Airlines jet in early May.

"This time a cadre of 30 or so listeners descended upon Lindbergh Field last
Thursday evening," read a May 7 posting. "They targeted three airlines and once
more hit pay dirt, as coyotes tried to export illegal aliens to various cities.
. . .

"Our dedicated troublemakers start asking illegals for identification (Jim is
wearing his official RH Citizen Patrol T-shirt, which looks remarkably like a BP
(Border Patrol) uniform shirt) . . . Illegals scatter."

"It has sort of hit a raw nerve here," Smith said. "Of all places, San Diego.
There's no place for vigilantism here. Stuff like this spreads like wildfire, so
unless they're stopped I have no idea where they're going to appear next."

ONE of the leaders of the "Citizen Patrol," Muriel Watson, led a movement in
1989 and 1990 to tighten enforcement of immigration laws along the U.S.-Mexico
border, where at the time an unlit chain-link fence was all that marked the
frontier. The effort, called "Light up the Border," put hundreds of cars along
the frontier to draw attention to the thousands of people sneaking over the
border and into U.S. territory.

Partly as a result of that movement, San Diego and other border cities are now
separated from their Mexican neighbors by walls that are illuminated and
patrolled.

"It took a year and a half to get that job done, but now we have lights, now we
have walls, now we have patrols. It worked!" Watson said. "We're going to make
this airport clean up the problem, too."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: SERGIO DORANTES - SPECIAL TO THE MERCURY NEWS
Don Clarke, a member of the "U.S. Citizen Patrol," stood outside the San Diego
airport on Friday.
[960525 FR 23A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              81 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 11, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON CLAIMS CREDIT FOR IMMIGRATION CRACKDOWN

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 3A

LENGTH: 724 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


President Clinton claimed credit Monday for a crackdown on illegal immigration
in this important bastion of swing voters but, pointing to the rash of black
church burnings across the South, also sounded a warning against scapegoating.

Twelve days after Bob Dole, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
traveled here to accuse him of being soft on border crime, Clinton derided
"people in public life (who) at election time talked tough about immigration but
didn't do much about it."

"We tried to substitute deeds for words," he told about 500 supporters and
onlookers outside local police headquarters, pointing to 762 more Border Patrol
agents in the San Diego area alone and an 84 percent increase in felony drug
prosecutions in the area in the past year.

But, Clinton cautioned, amid the crackdown on illegal immigration, "we really
fall into a dangerous trap when we start blaming our problems on other people
just because they are different from us."

Decrying more than 30 burnings of predominantly black Southern churches in the
past 18 months, Clinton said, "That's just another way of people finding their
way, trying to blame somebody else or put down somebody else, or put distance
between them and someone else in a totally dehumanizing way, forgetting that
everybody should be treated equally before the law, in the eyes of our fellow
Americans, just as we are before God almighty."

Noting that his administration has established a task force to deal with the
church fires, Clinton said, "To burn a church is a terrible thing. . . . We have
got to stop these things."

Going to South Carolina

White House aides later announced that after his three-day Western trip, Clinton
will travel to Greeleyville, S.C., to appear Wednesday at the 90-year-old Mount
Zion A.M.E. Church that is in the process of being rebuilt after being burned
last June.

Despite speculation of a racist conspiracy to torch the churches, Clinton
administration officials have established no links among the widespread
burnings. But White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton believes it is
important to strongly condemn the burnings "regardless of motive, regardless of
whether they are race-based or not."

Asked if Clinton was arguing that intolerance toward immigrants and the church
burnings stem from the same roots, McCurry said, "Fear of the foreign is
something that is sometimes a black streak that runs through America's political
culture. We see instances of that when it involves hate crimes, not necessarily
directed at black Americans, but at foreign Americans."

Attorney General Janet Reno, who accompanied Clinton on his visit to the police
headquarters, said in a report delivered to the president Monday that the
administration has provided funding for more than 172 new police officers in
Southwest border communities and added 579 federal prosecutors and 1,264
immigration agents.

Crime rates, the report said, are down 30 percent in San Diego since 1992, 5
percent in Nogales, Ariz., 14 percent in El Paso, Texas, and 20 percent in
Brownsville, Texas.

Republicans critical

Republicans scoffed at Clinton's claims.

"All the liberal Democrats are lining up to tell us how tough they are on
crime," said Ken Khachigian, director of Dole's California campaign. "But I
don't think they've got their ACLU cards out."

White House political aides denied that the San Diego trip was a response to
Dole's crime-bashing visit less than two weeks ago.

"We would have come here anyway," said one, noting that it is Clinton's aim to
steal support from regions that normally would be expected to be part of the GOP
base vote.

But McCurry acknowledged that Dole's praise for community policing programs
during his earlier visit had caught in the political craw.

"The community policing, as part of the 100,000 new cops (in the crime bill), is
something Clinton fought and bled for. We weren't about to let him (Dole) claim
success for that program after the Republican leadership tried to gut it," he
said.

Clinton's stop here, before playing an afternoon round of golf, was part of a
three-day swing through California. Monday night, he traveled to Los Angeles for
a fund-raiser at the home of movie mogul Lew Wasserman that was expected to
raise $1 million for the Democratic National Committee.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANTI-CRIME VIEWS
Positions of President Clinton and Bob Dole on selected crime issues:
Gun control
* Clinton: Pushed for five-day waiting period on handgun purchases and for ban
on certain assault weapons.
* Dole: Opposes handgun waiting period and assault weapons ban; advocates
instant computerized background check on gun purchases.
Police
* Clinton: Anti-crime package included money to put 100,000 more police officers
on the street. So far, 17,000 are on patrol.
* Dole: Opposed crime bill because he said Democrats added $5 billion in
spending on unproven social programs. Supports providing additional
crime-fighting money to communities through block grants without specifying how
the money would have to be used.
Immigration
* Clinton: Boosted budget for catching illegal immigrants; supports legislation
to double Border Patrol.
* Dole: Supported legislation calling for doubling of Border Patrol to 10,000
members.
Source: Associated Press

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
President Clinton greets San Diego police officers and sheriff's deputies after
a speech Monday praising police efforts. Clinton spoke at the San Diego Police
Department headquarters.
[960611 FR 3A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              82 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 11, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

STUDY: IMMIGRANTS ARE ECONOMIC PLUS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: CLAREMONT


Immigrants to California pay more in taxes than they receive in government
services over the length of a lifetime, according to the latest study examining
the costs and benefits of immigration.

The study released Monday by the Tomas Rivera Center, a Hispanic-issues think
tank affiliated with the Claremont Graduate School, looked at the combined
contributions of legal and illegal immigrants.

"Why They Count: Immigrant Contributions to the Golden State" examined tax
contributions generated over a lifetime of participation in the workforce.

"The appropriate question is not whether the 'net costs' of providing services
to immigrants yield a 'surplus' or a 'deficit' on an annual basis, but whether
over the duration of immigrants' residence in California, the state is able to
benefit from a return on these investments," the study said.

Gov. Pete Wilson - who made opposition to illegal immigration a central plank in
his 1994 re-election campaign - sharply criticized the report through a
spokesman.

"This study is misleading at best and dishonest on its face because it mixes
legal immigrants in with illegal immigrants," Wilson press secretary Sean Walsh
said. "You can't lump them together. Gov. Wilson has never been against
immigrants who choose to come in the right way."

He also criticized the study for not addressing the cost of incarcerating
illegal immigrants and for its failure to include the health care tab that
immigrants incur.

Researchers produced the study by combining data supplied by the state
Department of Education, the California Post-Secondary Education Commission, the
National Center of Education Statistics and the state Department of Finance,
with estimated total tax revenues - based on state income and sales taxes.

Combining tax revenues with costs for education and social service programs, a
typical legal immigrant contributes a net surplus of $24,943 to the state over
the course of a lifetime, the study found. Illegal immigrants employed over a
lifetime return, on average, $7,890, according to the study.

Immigration became a major political issue in California during 1994, when
voters passed Proposition 187, which would deny public benefits such as health
care to illegal immigrants. The initiative has not been implemented because of
court challenges.

The Rivera center study is the latest of several conflicting studies on the
impact of immigration. Most have focused exclusively on illegal immigration.

The Washington-based Urban Institute has estimated that undocumented immigrants
impose a net burden of $2 billion a year on state and federal treasuries,
amounting to about $500 per illegal immigrant.

Rice University economics Professor Donald Huddle pegs the net drain posed by
illegal immigration at up to $21.6 billion annually - or $4,240 per illegal
immigrant.

Differences are based in part on varying estimates of the number of illegal
immigrants and differing assumptions based on use of government programs, taxes
paid in and the effect on U.S. workers.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              83 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 13, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

$2.4 BILLION ASKED OF U.S. ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: APPEALS COURT TO RULE ON WHETHER
GOVERNMENT SHOULD REIMBURSE THE STATE.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Claiming that the federal government has allowed an "invasion" of illegal
immigrants, Gov. Pete Wilson's lawyer asked an apparently skeptical federal
appeals court Wednesday to order reimbursement of $2.4 billion a year to
California.

The money would cover costs of imprisonment, emergency health care and public
education for some of the 1.7 million illegal immigrants in the state - 5
percent of its population - said Deputy Attorney General Paul Dobson.

The influx reflects the federal government's "failure to control immigration . .
. an abdication of responsibility," Dobson told the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals.

He argued on behalf of both California and Arizona, which seeks $30 million in
reimbursement for the cost of imprisoning 2,000 illegal immigrants. Arizona's
suit does not cover health care or education.

Florida, New York, New Jersey and Texas have filed similar suits, all
unsuccessful so far. Rulings dismissing the Florida and New York suits have been
upheld on appeal, and the Supreme Court recently denied review of the Florida
case.

California's suit was dismissed by U.S. District Judge Judith Keep of San Diego,
and Arizona's by U.S. District Judge Stephen McNamee of Phoenix.

The three-judge appeals panel heard an hour of arguments Wednesday and could
rule at any time.

The suits claim the federal government, which has exclusive legal authority to
regulate immigration, is therefore responsible for a state's costs related to
illegal immigration.

The states rely, in part, on a constitutional provision requiring the federal
government to "protect each (state) against invasion." Dobson argued that the
multitude of illegal entries into California amounted to "a hostile encroachment
. . . an invasion."

Asked for legal authority, he cited an 1889 Supreme Court ruling that upheld a
federal law excluding Chinese laborers and compared them to an invasion. But
members of the appellate panel said the high court's racially tinged language
was outdated.

"What is an invasion?" asked U.S. District Judge Robert Merhige of Virginia,
temporarily assigned to the appeals court. "How many does it take? . . . If you
live in Virginia, five Yankees are an invasion."

Dobson defined it as "an illegal entry of so many persons that it is beyond the
capability of a state to handle."

But Justice Department lawyer Mark Stern said other federal courts in the
current immigration suits have ruled that the constitutional reference to
"invasion" was too indefinite to be the basis of a lawsuit and was not intended
to refer to immigrants.

The federal government does not dispute the seriousness of the illegal
immigration problem and "is undertaking a massive effort," Stern said. He
contended that the adequacy of that effort was not subject to court review.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              84 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 13, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BORDER CROSSING ENDS IN DEATH VAN SKIDS OFF ROAD INTO GAS STATION VEHICLE FILLED
WITH ILLEGAL ENTRANTS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY


One man died and a dozen others were injured Wednesday when a van packed with
more than 20 illegal immigrants skidded off a rural highway, slamming into a gas
station.

The accident was the latest in Southern California involving illegal immigrants
trying to elude authorities in a dangerous journey across the U.S.-Mexico
border.

"People were staggering out of the van, dazed and injured," said gas station
attendant Tommy McMullen, 26, who was working behind the counter when the van
sent a truck crashing through the front window. "The van just flew up into the
parking lot."

Fled Border Patrol

About 20 minutes before the accident, U.S. Border Patrol agents had tried to
stop the van for a routine inspection near Jamul in eastern San Diego County.

But the van sped away, running a stop sign, and agents ended their pursuit, said
Jim Pilkington, spokesman for the Border Patrol in San Diego. Because it could
create a dangerous situation, agents are not allowed to conduct high-speed
chases.

About 20 minutes later, the van missed a turn, skidded off the highway and
careened into the gas station.

The van rammed three customers' vehicles, pushing one through a plate glass
window of the station and narrowly missing the gas pumps, said Art Athans of the
California Highway Patrol.

Man's injuries fatal

An unidentified 43-year-old man from Mexico died at Mercy Hospital in San Diego
of internal injuries. Twelve other passengers were treated at hospitals for
minor to moderate injuries, Athans said.

No one at the Unocal 76 station about 15 miles east of San Diego was injured.

The Border Patrol arrested seven uninjured passengers. It was not known whether
the driver was among them. At least three others got away on foot, Pilkington
said.

Of 12 survivors interviewed by agents Wednesday, all said they were undocumented
immigrants from Mexico, Pilkington said.

Those aboard the Ford Aerostar van ranged in age from the 43-year-old who died
to a 16-year-old girl. All the other passengers were men.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Deputies peer into a van that had plowed into a gas station and three other
vehicles.
[960613 CA 3B 2]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Left, an injured man goes to a hospital.
[960613 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              85 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 22, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE VIEWS ON JOBS, IMMIGRANTS AND FAIR PLAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 678 words


I believe your editorial writer misread or misunderstood the point being made by
Terry Anderson of the Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium
(Opinion, June 12). I didn't see Anderson objecting to legal immigration; I read
him as frustrated because illegal immigrants with forged credentials will work
for what we think is peanuts, but which to them is instant wealth.

A legal immigration limit of 775,000 newcomers per year is a tiny fraction of
our total population, not enough to be noticed in terms of neighbors or jobs.
The problem arises when a legal quota is enlarged by several thousand illegal
immigrants a month and when most of the immigrants are concentrated
geographically in a few states, like California, Texas, Florida and New York. In
those states and others like them, the immigrants, legal or illegal, are so
concentrated, and so poor, that they will work for anything which provides them
with food and any kind of lodging. Probably you and I would do the same. Hunger
is a strong influence on desire.

The real cure is the complete blocking of illegal immigration, not an easy job
when the borders are thousands of miles in length.

Do we build two 20-foot-high concrete walls with a deep moat between? Wire
fences won't work, and the number of officers needed to patrol the full length
of the border and truly seal it is astronomical. Until Mexico, Cuba and the
other really impoverished countries work out their economic and social problems,
the United States is an irresistibly attractive refuge.

- R.E. Kaufmann
Los Gatos
TERRY Anderson's commentary on immigration (Opinion, June 12) sounds remarkably
like the rationale used by my white relatives in Jackson, Miss., to justify
their position on excluding black children from their communities and schools.

Anderson complains of being called a racist for "speaking up." Well, if it walks
like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it probably is a duck.

Regarding the hard-working immigrants who take whatever jobs they can find: I
say there is plenty of room in America for immigrants who want to work hard.
They are what made this country great. Every credible study I've read indicates
that immigration boosts our economy. We need lots and lots of immigrants paying
taxes to help us shoulder the crushing burden of our native-born parasites who
produce generation after generation of out-of-wedlock children they can't or
won't support, while sucking the taxpayers' lifeblood through the welfare
system. Let's talk about a moratorium on welfare, not immigration.

- Mary E. Hudson
San Jose
ONE point of your June 12 editorial that I would most comfortably dispute is
your assertion that immigrants have started companies "that are likely to hire
native-born Americans." My experience at several companies in the Bay Area has
shown that most companies, particularly those run by well-educated immigrants,
are more likely to hire their fellow countrymen than qualified native-born
Americans.

As an engineer, I have worked at companies where I have been the only
native-born software engineer and have found that many small, high-tech firms
specialize in recruiting most of their engineers from places like China, Taiwan,
and India.

Sadly, Americans are viewed by many high-tech immigrants as being better suited
for jobs in sales and marketing rather than the hard, long work of engineering.

Personally, I have very mixed feelings about what is generally regarded as the
"immigration problem." While on the one hand I am happy to meet and work with
intelligent, hard-working engineers from many cultures, I am also uncomfortable
with what I perceive as bias against Americans in my own country.

In both high-tech and non-high-tech industries, I believe the answer lies as it
does in many things with a well-balanced approach. The problem is that no one is
willing to step forward and agree to such an approach. Instead, people are
lining up on opposite sides of a large chasm with no desire to bridge the gap
between them.

- Jeff Budzinksi
Redwood Shores

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              86 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 22, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BISHOPS CONDEMN BILLS ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 5A

LENGTH: 94 words


Congress is using illegal immigrants as scapegoats for the nation's social and
economic ills, the nation's Roman Catholic bishops said Friday at a meeting in
Portland, Ore. The House earlier this week approved an amendment to a bill
passed by the Senate that would allow states to deny public education to illegal
immigrants' children.

"There is a disregard for human life in this legislation, which is inconsistent
with the Gospel and which I find morally objectionable," said Bishop Anthony
Pilla, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              87 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 2, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH GROUP IS OPPOSED TO PROP. 187

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 88 words


The American Public Health Association went on record Wednesday against
California's Proposition 187 and other mandates that would deny medical care to
illegal immigrants. With the vote at its annual meeting in San Diego, the
association voiced support for legal challenges to such measures and for
educating lawmakers on their consequences. Thousands of doctors and public
health workers sent a message that they believe denying medical care can lead to
unchecked spread of contagious diseases like tuberculosis and AIDS.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              88 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 9, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VIGIL SET TONIGHT TO MARK PASSAGE OF PROPOSITION 187

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 63 words


Opponents of Proposition 187 will hold a candlelight vigil tonight in San Jose
to mark the one-year anniversary of the passage of the initiative that denies a
range of benefits to illegal immigrants. The event will begin at 6 in Plaza de
Cesar Chavez in front of the Fairmont Hotel. Details are available from South
Bay for Immigrant Rights and Empowerment at (408) 289-1875.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Bay Area News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              89 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 June 21, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHAT IS EXPECTED OF LEGAL IMMIGRANTS?

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 978 words


Mary Louise Pratt's June 11 column "Green card blues" on the "rights" of the
immigrant was both accurate and of concern to all of us who don't have
citizenship.

I have worked for a United States-based company since 1975. Moving from England
to Baltimore in 1980, I am still the only implant to be transferred to the
United States, and I remember very well the torturous program that my family and
I were put through to gain that wonderful green card.

On receiving it, I thought I knew how the slaves must have felt when they got
their freedom.

Since that day, Aug. 22, 1980, I have never worked less than a 50-hour-plus
week, and I have spent an average of 150 days a year traveling overseas, during
which time I have sold some $750 million worth of American products. That I had,
and have, specialist skills did not count for very much during the Immigration
and Naturalization Service "process."

I love my job, and I do not have an American passport - because it is a lot
easier getting around my markets on a British one.

I am married to an American, I think of the United States as my home, I have
invested a great deal in my adopted county and, if Pratt is correct, I will be
punished - declared ineligible for all forms of government assistance - for
doing what I have done.

- Gordon M. Booth
San Jose
* The Perspective article by Mary Louise Pratt dealing with legal immigration
should have been headlined "Legal Immigrant: You have an obligation to America."

After a five-year residence in this country, a green card holder is entitled to
apply for U.S. citizenship, which gives the legal immigrant the right to vote,
join the Armed Forces and participate in the political process of this country.
That is an implied obligation when immigrating to this country and does not
imply giving up one's cultural roots, but assumes that one wants to participate
fully in shaping the future of this nation and is not here for economic reasons
only.

This commitment may not be considered politically correct, but it has been the
tradition in this and other countries.

- Jan Black
Cupertino
KILLING CIVILIANS ISN'T UNIQUE
It'll be hard to disagree with Mayor Itcho Ito of Nagasaki, Japan, who referred
to "statements by high American officials justifying the atomic bomb" as
"heartless statements" (Front section, June 13), without seeming a callous
racist. But I'll give it a try.

Hiroshima and Nagasaki were not unique events. Dresden, Tokyo, Hamburg,
Coventry, Rotterdam and Guernica were also bombed from the air in World War II.
Some cities had similar numbers of casualties. Tokyo had even more than
Hiroshima.

To hammer on the uniqueness of the suffering of Hiroshima and Nagasaki is to
distract from, and trivialize, the suffering of the people of Tokyo, Dresden and
Coventry. Many firebomb victims survived with terrible damage, just as A-bomb
survivors did.

Similar numbers of people were killed in Nanjing and Manila, though by Japanese
infantry, not aerial bombs. This did leave more buildings standing. But military
assaults on helpless civilians is much older than World War II. Romans wiped out
Corinth in 149 B.C.; Spaniards massacred inhabitants of Dutch towns; Mongols
built pyramids out of the heads of citizens of Baghdad.

Perhaps Mayor Ito can condemn the military targeting of civilians, despite its
long history, rather than harping on the specialness of Hiroshima. This would be
unifying rather than divisive.

It's a tough call to say which arouses more horror: two pilots pressing two
buttons to incinerate a quarter-million people; or thousands of indoctrinated
soldiers bayoneting pregnant women and old people. Myself, I'll reserve my
special horror for events where the technique and the numbers were particularly
astounding: the Holocaust, the killing fields of Kampuchea, and Rwanda.

There's a real danger that creating a false hierarchy of horror, or claiming all
tragedies are the same, can create a sense of distance, and reduce compassion.

- D.J. Stahl
Palo Alto
CHILD ABUSE AND MURDER CAN OCCUR IN THE WOMB
The June 16 letter "Child abuse can begin in the womb" by Karyn Hodgens
responded to the June 6 article "When parenting is a crime." Ms. Hodgens states
that "a woman has the right to choose whether or not to have children, but any
woman who abuses her body with drugs and alcohol during pregnancy should lose
that right."

She says, "A child who is brought into this world has a right to a healthy,
secure, nourishing, loving environment. Anything less than that is child abuse."
Agreed.

She then says, "A child in the uterus has a right to a healthy, secure,
nourishing, loving environment. And anything less than that is child abuse." Few
would disagree with this, either.

The irony is that many people who would wholeheartedly agree with these
statements have no problem with the idea of a woman aborting her unborn child.

Can we not say, based on these statements, that: A woman who hires someone to
kill the child she has brought into this world is guilty of murder. A woman who
hires someone to kill the child in her uterus is guilty of murder.

- Ann Marie Mehta
Santa Clara
ARIANNA HUFFINGTON SHOULD FOLLOW TRADITION
During Michael Huffington's recent Senate campaign, we were assured that he was
"his own man," and that his wife, Arianna, was not the driving force of his
political aspirations.

Now, Mike is nowhere to be seen and Arianna Huffington is just about everywhere.
She seems to be on every TV talk show, news show, panel show and even her own
show, touting the conservative agenda and telling Americans what Americans
really want.

If her call for a return to "traditional" values means she'll stay at home, shut
up and leave the rest of us alone, I might be all for it.

- Mark Maslowski
San Jose@2 DRAWING: MARGARET SCOTT
[950621 ED 6B 2]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters To The Editor

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              90 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   June 23, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FREMONT COUPLE SPRING AFGHAN PAIR FROM JAIL

BYLINE: SANDY KLEFFMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 295 words


An Afghan father and daughter facing possible deportation were bailed out of
jail this week by a Fremont couple who put up $20,000 even though they had never
met them.

To their relief, Yacob Mayer and his 29-year-old daughter, Zeada, were at home
in Fremont with the rest of their family after being released late Wednesday
from Alameda County's Santa Rita Jail.

"It's very good," Zeada Mayer said Thursday. "I'm very happy that I'm back and
not in Afghanistan. I'm very happy because the people here help me."

Earlier in the day, the pair of good Samaritans - Terry Ritter and his wife,
Shamim - drove to San Francisco to present a cashier's check to the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The Ritters learned of the Mayers' struggles through a Mercury News story
Sunday. They said they were impressed by the strong grades of the three youngest
girls and that Zeada Mayer had been working two jobs to help support the family.

"These past three days, I have not done anything for my work . . . but it was
worth it," Shamim Ritter said. "They were very thankful."

Immigration Judge Lawrence DiCostanzo denied the family's request for political
asylum June 8 after court hearings proved that Yacob Mayer lied on his
application by failing to reveal the family lived in Germany for five years
before arriving in the United States. The family appealed the decision and will
remain in this country for several more weeks until the appeal is heard.

More than $1,000 has been donated to a trust fund set up by the Ritters to help
pay the Mayers' living and legal expenses.

Members of the East Bay Afghan community fear the family will be murdered or the
girls kidnapped and raped if they are forced to return to the war-torn country.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The Mayer Family Trust Fund is at Commercial Bank of Fremont, 39510 Paseo Padre
Parkway, Fremont, Calif. 94538.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              91 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 1, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRATION DIPS 9.3%

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 101 words


Legal immigration to the United States fell by 9.3 percent in 1994, the largest
annual drop in 15 years, according to figures released Friday. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service said 798,395 legal immigrants were admitted in 1994
compared with 880,015 in 1993. It said the drop was in line with reduced limits
on immigration required by the 1990 Immigration Act.

Immigration from Vietnam, China, the Philippines and El Salvador declined the
most, with that from Vietnam dropping by nearly one third. Immigration from the
Dominican Republic, Ireland and Haiti showed the largest increase.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
With the Capitol in the background, a police officer sits behind a concrete
barrier on the newly blocked Delaware Avenue.
[950701 FR 10A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 14, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INDEPENDENT BORDER PATROL REVIEW SOUGHT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


Allegations of misconduct by Border Patrol agents should be independently
reviewed, immigrants rights activists told a panel meeting Thursday to figure
out how to improve the much-criticized complaint process.

An advisory panel composed of citizens and government representatives was
holding its second hearing this week to hear accounts about the complaint
process and to come up with recommendations to improve it.

Complaints against the U.S. Border Patrol range from shootings and rapes to
beatings and verbal abuse of illegal immigrants.

"We have people out there being abused, and we have young INS and Border Patrol
agents who are being accused of abuse," said panel member Edward Tully, who is
with the FBI National Executive Institute Associates in Virginia.

"And we have a lot of bureaucratic rules that have complicated the process, but
that can be corrected."

In answer to persistent calls by the public and immigrants' rights advocates for
more accountability, U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and INS Chief Doris
Meissner created the citizens' panel two years ago.

Federal officials were unable to provide figures Thursday on how many complaints
are filed each year against agents who work the 2,000-mile southwest border, as
well as how many claims are unsubstantiated and how many result in disciplinary
action.

However, 95 complaints have been filed against agents in San Diego alone since
October, said Deputy U.S. Attorney Amalia Meza.

Immigrants' rights advocates called for civilian oversight and independent
review to ensure better accountability.

"It should be the same way major police departments in the country oversee the
cop on the beat," said Lucas Guttentag, director of immigrants' rights for the
national American Civil Liberties Union.

"They should make it open and public. It's good for the community, and it's good
for the agency. They learn about problems and can correct them."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
INS Chief Doris Meissner discusses plan to help prevent fraud at borders.
[950714 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              93 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 July 26, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 RULING MAY BE MADE WITHOUT TRIAL WILSON'S REFUSAL TO DEFINE TERMS
GIVES OPPONENTS AN OPENING

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 414 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


Buoyed by early legal victories, opponents of Proposition 187 raise their sights
today and try to scuttle most of the immigration initiative without a trial.

Immigrant rights groups hope to take advantage of a strategic move by Gov. Pete
Wilson when they ask a federal judge in Los Angeles to rule the measure
unconstitutional.

Proposition 187, passed last November, denies public education, social services
and non-emergency public health care to illegal immigrants and requires state
and local officials to report "reasonably suspected" illegal immigrants to
federal authorities. Nearly all of it has been blocked by court orders.

In an injunction last November that barred enforcement of most of 187, U.S.
District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer said the initiative appeared to conflict with
federal authority over immigration. She said the measure would deny benefits to
some immigrants who may be entitled to receive them under federal law, and would
pressure some immigrants to leave the country who may be entitled to stay.

Pfaelzer scheduled a trial for September to determine whether the measure was
constitutional. She invited Wilson to submit regulations that would define
disputed terms, such as the categories of aliens who would be denied benefits
and the evidence needed to "reasonably suspect" illegal presence.

But the governor, who had argued that federal courts should give state judges
and regulators the first chance to interpret the measure, decided in April not
to present any proposed regulations. Instead, he said, opponents should have to
prove that no constitutional interpretation of Proposition 187 was possible.

Opponents responded by asking Pfaelzer to strike the measure down immediately,
arguing that a trial was no longer needed to resolve any disputed facts. Wilson
countered by asking the judge to declare the measure valid without a trial.

The federal court case focuses on 187's health and welfare provisions. The bans
on public schooling of illegal immigrants - which appears to conflict with a
1982 U.S. Supreme Court ruling - and on public higher education are being argued
before a San Francisco Superior Court judge, who has blocked their enforcement.

The key dispute Wednesday is whether Proposition 187, by denying benefits to a
broadly defined group of immigrants, and encouraging the deportation of
"suspected" illegal immigrants, amounts to a "scheme to regulate immigration" in
violation of exclusive federal authority.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 27, 1995 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

HAMAS LEADER HELD IN U.S.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Mousa Abu Marzuk, a leader of the militant Palestinian group Hamas, is being
detained by U.S. immigration authorities who stopped him from entering this
country.

Marzuk, who is head of the political bureau of Hamas, which opposes the
Israeli-PLO peace process, was stopped at New York's Kennedy airport Tuesday
afternoon, said Carole Florman, spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Neither U.S. nor Israeli officials would say whether Israel asked for Marzuk's
detention or whether he faces any charges in Israel.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 28, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. SEEKS TO EXPEL TERRORISM SUSPECT

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The U.S. government moved Thursday to expel a leader of the Palestinian group
Hamas on grounds that the man, a U.S. permanent resident alien who has lived in
the United States 14 years, participated in unspecified terrorist activity.

Mousa Abu Marzuk, 45, head of the political bureau of Hamas, the Islamic
Resistance Movement, which opposes the Israeli-PLO peace process, was stopped
upon re-entering this country Tuesday after a flight from the United Arab
Emirates. He has been detained in New York since then, pending a hearing.

Immigration and Naturalization Service official Carole Florman said the
government filed papers in New York Thursday afternoon seeking a hearing before
an immigration judge to permanently bar Abu Marzuk from the country.

"We are saying this is someone inadmissible to the United States based on his
participation in terrorist activities," Florman said. She gave no information
about any alleged terrorist activities.

Abu Marzuk returned on a flight via London a day after a bomb was set off on a
Tel Aviv bus. Hamas claimed responsibility for the attack, which killed six
Israelis and injured 31. U.S. officials declined to discuss whether they suspect
any link between that bombing and Abu Marzuk.

A team of FBI agents has been working to establish that he concealed or
misrepresented membership in a terrorist organization and that he is a key
figure in terrorist activity, according to a source familiar with the case.

In April, the State Department's annual terrorism report said elements of Hamas
had used violent means, including terrorism, to try to establish an Islamic
Palestinian state in place of Israel. Hamas also runs schools, clinics and
mosques.

One Israeli official, demanding anonymity, said Abu Marzuk was one of a handful
of top Hamas leaders who had personally orchestrated terrorist activity against
Israel.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 10, 1995 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

INS AGENT CHARGES HE WAS BLOCKED FROM FORCED-LABOR INVESTIGATION

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 11B

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: EL MONTE


Immigration officials blocked a special agent from investigating sewing shops
that may have used forced labor in 1991, the agent claims in a discrimination
complaint.

Agent Phillip Bonner is now assisting with the prosecution of operators of an El
Monte sweatshop where nearly 60 Thai nationals were discovered living in
slave-like conditions last week. Some of the workers told investigators they
were held in indentured servitude for years to work off immigration costs as
garment makers.

Ten people were arrested and charges ranging from violations of state
minimum-wage regulations to federal smuggling laws.

Bonner's complaint, written to Justice Department officials in August 1993,
claims his superiors in the Los Angeles office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service blocked him from looking into such dealings.

"Critical criminal investigations involving multiple homicides, Thai heroin
trade, the large-scale smuggling of Asians and their peonage in Los Angeles and
other investigative matters have been systemically obstructed by my management,"
Banner said in the complaint, which is pending before the federal Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.

The undocumented factory workers discovered at the apartment house last week
have been detained in federal custody. Eighteen appeared in federal court
Wednesday as public interest lawyers tried to have them released.

Meanwhile, facing possible legal action, Montgomery Ward on Wednesday asked its
suppliers if they did business with the El Monte sewing operation known as SK
Fashions.

The Chicago-based department store contacted suppliers after California
officials announced the company and another retailer, Mervyn's department
stores, were under investigation for possible links to SK Fashions.

Montgomery Ward and Mervyn's addresses were discovered on shipping labels on
boxes of garments found during last week's raid.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 13, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUTS IN WELFARE TO IMMIGRANTS COULD BRUISE STATE FEDERAL LEGISLATION: BILLIONS
IN EXPENSES MIGHT BE SHIFTED TO CALIFORNIA AND COUNTIES, A STATE SENATE STUDY
SAYS.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO


Federal legislation to deny welfare benefits to legal immigrants would hit
Californians the hardest and could shift billions of dollars in expenses to
state and county governments, a Senate study says.

"Curtailing health and welfare benefits to immigrants would have
disproportionate impacts in California, home to more than a third of the
nation's foreign-born," said the study by the state Senate's Office of Research.

"Losses in federal funds to California could range up to $7 billion over five
years."

The changes could result in additional burdens for the state and California's 58
counties, particularly financially strapped Los Angeles and Orange counties, the
top destinations of the state's immigrants, the report said.

The non-partisan legislative analyst estimates that the federal cutbacks could
cost the counties more than $3 billion over five years.

"Counties, the providers of last resort, are bound legally and constitutionally
to serve destitute persons ineligible for other public help without
discrimination on such factors as citizenship and national origin," the report
said.

Los Angeles County estimates that it would face more than $500 million a year in
additional general assistance costs to help legal immigrants who would be denied
welfare and food stamps under the federal legislation.

The state could make up for the federal losses or try to save $3 billion to $5
billion over five years by copying the federal cutbacks, but that effort could
face constitutional challenges under the U.S. Constitution's 14th Amendment, the
report said.

The amendment's equal protection clause is directed at states and their
subdivisions, not Congress, and has been interpreted to prohibit discrimination
against the foreign-born.

Also, the California Constitution says a person may not be "denied equal
protection of the laws."

The House and the U.S. Senate have passed differing bills denying welfare
benefits to legal immigrants. A two-house conference committee will try to
resolve differences in the bills.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 18, 1995 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TURNING POINT ON IMMIGRATION HOUSE COMMITTEE'S APPROVAL EXPECTED THIS WEEK ON
BILL CUTTING NUMBER OF LEGAL ENTRANTS INTO U.S.

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1085 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


A year after Californians stoked a white-hot national immigration debate by
ratifying Proposition 187, a key congressional panel is expected this week to
approve one of the most restrictive U.S. immigration bills since 1924.

The House Judiciary Committee's measure, mirrored in key places by a
slower-moving Senate bill, would cut the number of legal immigrants from the
800,000 who came to the United States last year to 595,000 by 2001.

While its complexion is certain to change as it winds its way through Congress
and lands on President Clinton's desk, probably sometime next year, this much is
clear: America is poised to yank in its welcome mat for illegal and legal
immigrants alike.

Even before Congress acts, the debate over the bill will serve as a national
forum for the more fundamental question of whether immigration helps or hurts
the nation.

"If illegal immigration has reached a crisis, our legal immigration system has
reached the point where it no longer serves the national interest," said Rep.
Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chief House sponsor of the immigration reform bill.

Immigration to the United States, which peaked at 1.2 million in 1907, has ebbed
and flowed over the decades. The bill before the House panel would allow for
roughly the level of immigration that occurred during the 1920s - during the
acknowledged immigration boom. But the U.S. population has nearly tripled since
that time. Polls show voters have a strong appetite for deep immigration cuts.

Tightening the borders

The House panel, which hopes to complete its work on the bill within days,
already has spent weeks on a measure that would dramatically rewrite rules for
those who seek to come here legally and launch aggressive new strategies to
thwart those who unlawfully cross U.S. borders.

"As a practical matter, we really don't need immigration anymore," said Dan
Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
"After all, this isn't 1810. We're not trying to fill up a wilderness."

While lawmakers are unlikely to satisfy conservative groups like FAIR, which
wants an immigration moratorium, they are charting a course on immigration that
was unthinkable before California overwhelmingly approved Prop. 187, which
denies most public benefits to illegal immigrants and is now under attack in the
courts.

The House bill is nothing short of a watershed in the manner in which America
controls its borders. Consider:

* It would establish a telephone system for employers to verify the work
eligibility for all job applicants. A pilot program in at least five states,
including California, would be completed by 1999. After that, Congress could
expand the system nationwide - a move critics decry as the first step toward a
national identification card.

* It calls for the construction of three parallel fences for 14 miles along the
U.S. border in San Diego County. The Clinton administration has said that plan -
labeled "nutso" by Democrats - would cost as much as $110 million.

* It would cap the number of immigrants sponsored by their U.S. relatives to
330,000 a year. There would be no limits for spouses and minor children of U.S.
citizens. In 1994, about 462,000 immigrants, including adult children and
brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens, came to the United States under the
sponsorship of their relatives here.

That change is likely to hurt Asians, who make up a disproportionately large
share of adult siblings seeking U.S. residency. Of the 1.6 million now seeking
entry to the U.S. under that category, more than 1 million are Asians.

* It would tighten the rules by which foreigners gain political asylum and
establish a ceiling of 50,000 on the number of refugees admitted yearly to the
United States. That's a cut of about 50 percent.

The bill also would prohibit the entry of foreigners with no job skills and no
family ties, hasten the deportation of undocumented aliens, deny public benefits
to illegal immigrants, and double the nation's Border Patrol force by adding
1,000 agents each year for five years.

"This bill goes so far beyond what is reasonable that it jeopardizes the whole
premise of our immigration system," said Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president
at the National Council of La Raza, which is fighting many components of the
House bill. "It has several absolutely incredible and sweeping provisions that
don't serve anyone."

Unusual alliances

This year's immigration debate also has forged odd political alliances.

Some conservative Republicans have joined liberal Democrats in condemning the
telephone verification system. House Majority Leader Richard Armey, R-Texas, and
U.S. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., are balking at stringent anti-immigration
measures. The libertarian Cato Institute has attacked the bill as a "disaster,"
and the National Association of Manufacturers dubbed it anti-business.

But earlier this year the bill gained unusual momentum after a national
commission headed by former Rep. Barbara Jordan, D-Texas, called for cuts in
legal immigration, a plan swiftly - and surprisingly - embraced by President
Clinton.

Since then Clinton's immigration commissioner, Doris Meissner, has said Congress
ought to concentrate this year on measures to curb illegal immigration.

But reform advocates like Smith, the Texas congressman, are using popular
measures to trim unlawful immigration as a lever to boost less-palatable
proposals to curb legal immigration.

Attempt to split bill

A Democratic proposal last week to separate the two issues into two distinct
bills was easily defeated.

"You have a terrible problem in moving this bill in the form it's in now," Rep.
Howard Berman, D-Mission Hills, sponsor of the failed attempt to split the bill,
told GOP lawmakers. "Your own party is deeply divided in its views on cutting
back legal immigration. You have a controversial verification system. . . . You
cannot carry all these burdens."

While many immigration advocates say they do not expect some of the more extreme
ingredients of the House bill to survive scrutiny before the full House, they
concede the question is no longer whether Congress acts to cut immigration, but
how far it will go.

"It looks like there's a lot of momentum for these cuts," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group.

"It's almost like (Republicans) aimed at the problem of illegal immigration and
shot legal immigration instead."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              99 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 24, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RESTRICTING IMMIGRATION WILL EASE STATE'S WOES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 159 words


The Oct. 18 article "Turning point on immigration" (Page One) characterizes the
Lamar Smith legislation as "one of the most restrictive U.S. immigration bills
since 1924." Then it notes that it could make a modest cut in legal immigration
"from the 800,000 that came to the United States last year to 595,000 by 2001."

From 1930 to 1970 immigration to the U.S. averaged only 180,000 a year. The
United States no longer needs large numbers of people to settle open lands or
provide unskilled labor in our factories. Over one-third of immigrants settle in
California and the state has an unemployment rate of 7.2 percent.

California's over-crowded schools, over-burdened infrastructure and over-taxed
environment do not need an increasing human population. Setting immigration
levels at 200,000 per year could put us on the much-needed road to population
stabilization.

- Ric Oberlink
Californians for Population
Stabilization, Sacramento

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 27, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAKE 10 UNZ AT GINGRICH'S TABLE, BUT HE SAYS IMMIGRATION REFORM IMPERILS VALLEY

BYLINE: SUSAN ORENSTEIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: PENINSULA LIVING; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 910 words


IN the 1994 Republican gubernatorial primary, Palo Alto resident Ron Unz won a
surprising 34 percent of the vote against Pete Wilson, bankrolling his campaign
with more than $2 million of his own money.

Today, ultraconservative Unz is back at the helm of his software business in
Palo Alto, but he continues to push for economic and social reform. He writes
articles, has given money to the California initiative campaign to roll back
affirmative action, and just last week met with Newt Gingrich at a Silicon
Valley lunch.

At the top of Unz's agenda: opposing proposed restrictions in immigration policy
currently pending in Congress that he says would undermine the valley's
high-tech prowess.

1. Why are you worried about current immigration legislation?

Probably about a third of all the engineers working in Silicon Valley are
foreign-born. That includes some of the most successful entrepreneurs and
executives - two of the five founders of Sun Microsystems. Our industry has been
able to attract the best and brightest from overseas, and they've given us a
competitive edge.

What the government is proposing would make it very difficult to hire some of
these people. It would be a serious blow to America's competitiveness in high
technology. Also, it would send a very negative message politically.

2. But a spokesman for the chief sponsor of the House immigration bill, Texas
Republican Lamar Smith, says it is very favorable to the valley, that it calls
for increasing the number of visas granted to skilled workers.

That's not what I've seen. That seems contrary to what all the people in the
high-tech industry feel about it.

When I raised the question at lunch with Newt Gingrich, even he said he was
given conflicting information. So you can see there's a lot of confusion.

3. Speaking of your lunch with Gingrich, what are your impressions of him?

He's very forward-looking in terms of his interest in technology issues. The
Republican party has always had a reputation of being stodgy. But in the last 20
years, it's clearly become the party of ideas. It's hard to think of anybody who
embodies the excitement of ideas like Newt Gingrich.

4. Do you think the Clinton administration has been good for the valley?

Some of its policies have been devastating for Silicon Valley. The Democrats in
Congress are doing everything they can to block tort reform, and the
administration is not fighting them on that. When a company goes public, its
stock tends to be fairly volatile. There's an industry of lawyers that always
sues such a company. It's a tremendous drain and burden. Clinton also put
through the largest tax increase in American history.

But the single worst thing the Clinton administration has done is almost
starting a trade war with Japan. Silicon Valley is a tremendously successful
international exporter. If other countries decide to retaliate against the
United States, they would impose trade barriers against American products.

5. Who will you vote for for president?

I'm leaning toward Phil Gramm. In a lot of other areas I'm impressed by Steve
Forbes. He's very pro-free trade.

6. Are politics in your future?

I might very well run for something again. But I don't have immediate plans.

7. You've talked about the problems of the "welfare state." But what is the
benefit of cutting lunches, or pulling the rug out from under young children?

The reason poor people lead miserable lives in America today is not because of
lack of money. They live in neighborhoods that are dangerous, they go to schools
that are not teaching them effectively, they live in an atmosphere of
hopelessness.

If you gave them more dollars, it wouldn't do them any good. Take something like
school lunches. The average welfare family has more than enough money to buy
food for their children. But they're living lives that are so disorganized they
spend the money haphazardly.

8. What do you propose instead?

I don't have a solution. But the first thing you have to do is agree on where
the problem came from - to admit that the solution to these social problems is
not more social welfare spending.

You have to stop the damage. You have to be very harsh toward criminals. You
have to re-establish discipline in the schools. You definitely have to do what
you can to make welfare unpleasant for people so that it's absolutely a last
resort. Fingerprinting welfare recipients is one example of how to do that.

9. Where is the compassion in this way of thinking?

Persuading people they shouldn't be on welfare or have children they can't
support is the most compassionate thing you can do for them.

10. Have you actually spent time talking to the people you're referring to or
visiting their communities?

In terms of going out deliberately to poor neighborhoods to meet people, no, I
haven't. When I lived in New York, I lived in a working-class area. A lot of
people I knew in school came from poor families. I grew up on welfare myself.
Some people wear their background on their sleeve. I really don't think it had
too much impact on my views.

But I think the judgments I've formed aren't too far from reality. If I were to
talk to somebody from East Palo Alto and they told me the main issue in the
United States was racism, it would be one thing I'd take into account. But just
because somebody says something doesn't mean it's correct. I really think I have
a reasonable view of things.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 14
People

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

              October 27, 1995 Friday SANTA CRUZ/MONTEREY EDITION

LOCAL GROUPS AIMING AT WELFARE-REFORM BILLS IMMIGRANT ADVOCATES URGE END TO
SCAPEGOATING

BYLINE: DE TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 343 words


The message itself was not new: In times of economic slump, immigrants become
scapegoats.

But Bay Area immigration advocates called on their supporters Thursday to press
Washington for an end to the practice, as Congress attempts to reconcile twin
welfare-reform bills viewed by some as part of a new wave of scapegoating.

At a news conference at the Korean Resource Center in Santa Clara,
Asian-American and Hispanic immigration advocates hailed President Clinton's
recent denunciation of provisions denying federal benefits to legal immigrants -
including, in some cases, naturalized citizens. Separate House and Senate
welfare-reform bills await reconciliation in a joint congressional conference
committee.

In an Oct. 18 letter to the joint conference committee, Clinton said the
administration "strongly opposes the Senate provision that would discriminate
against U.S. citizens by denying benefits to legal immigrants even after they
became naturalized citizens."

Sunmee Eom, director of the Korean Resource Center, said: "In these days of
demagoguery and scapegoating, it is encouraging and heart-warming to hear the
voice of reason from the nation's highest office."

And yet, Richard Konda of the Asian Law Alliance added that even though Clinton
said "both the House and Senate bills go too far in cutting benefits to legal
immigrants," the president's priorities are still not completely clear as he
prepares to seek a welfare-reform compromise he can support.

The Thursday call to arms was part of a national effort by immigration advocates
to stop legislation they view as hostile to immigrants. In the wake of two
full-page ads in the Washington Post, signed by more than 350 organizations,
immigration supporters are now calling for a mass letter-writing and faxing
effort to members of Congress and the president.

Some speakers at the news conference said immigrants are being blamed unfairly
for economic hardships caused by corporate downsizing, increased reliance on
temporary workers and other national economic trends.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SHORTER VERSION: page 2B of Morning Final Edition.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 27, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S., VIETNAM MAY REOPEN IMMIGRATION DOOR A CRACK

BYLINE: Kristin Huckshorn, Mercury News Vietnam Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: HANOI


In a significant policy reversal, immigration officials from the United States
and Vietnam will meet here next week to discuss the possible resettlement in the
United States of some Vietnamese boat people remaining in Southeast Asian camps,
sources said Thursday.

Those bilateral talks represent an attempt by the United States to jumpstart the
stalled repatriation of about 40,000 Vietnamese. That program came to a virtual
standstill last summer after people in the camps heard about Republican-backed
legislation in the U.S. Congress that would grant asylum to as many as half of
them.

U.S. willing to talk

The Clinton administration, which opposed the legislation, had at first insisted
the United States would not accept more boat people, almost all of whom have
been classified as economic migrants and told they must return to Vietnam. But
with repatriation stalled and countries housing the camps losing patience, the
administration is now attempting to compromise.

If meetings next week can "help solve the problem, it is a good thing," said
Catherine Bertrand, the representative of the U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees in Hanoi. "The UNHCR supports any action that can promote return of
these people."

The discussions are expected to focus on creation of a U.S.-funded program that
would permit the immigration of some Vietnamese who had been denied refugee
status. However, the United States has said boat people must return to Vietnam
to qualify for such interviews.

Repatriation slowed

Repatriation has slowed to a trickle, with only about 150 people returning in
each of the past three months, Bertrand said. About 100 Vietnamese were forcibly
flown to Hanoi from camps in Hong Kong last week, she said.

Returnees have said they fear persecution from Vietnam's communist government.
Officials from UNHCR monitoring returnees have found no evidence of such
harassment.

But one humanitarian group that had been providing assistance to returnees with
State Department funding abruptly ended its program this week, citing the
Vietnamese government's lack of cooperation.

Program to end

Charles Davy, head of the International Catholic Migration Commission in Ho Chi
Minh City, said he was ending the $3.3 million program because the government
was not showing "the commitment to support reintegration as a means of promoting
repatriation."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 28, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE BILL TARGETS COLLEGE AID CUTOFF OF FUNDS WOULD END SOME IMMIGRANTS'
SCHOOLING

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Khanh Nguyen of Santa Clara has spotted, deep in the minutiae of the
Republicans' welfare plan, something that imperils her dreams of a nursing
career.

"They must be kidding," said Nguyen, 23, a De Anza College student who came to
the United States from Vietnam in 1990. "This means I can't go to school. I
would lose everything."

Nguyen is one of about 120,000 legal immigrants in California who could lose
more than $196 million in federal education aid under terms of a GOP welfare
bill heading to a House-Senate conference committee.

The bill, which supporters say is intended to break what they call the cycle of
dependency on federal assistance, would severely restrict aid to legal
immigrants, including grants and loans to college students.

As welfare negotiators go to work this week on differences in the bill, the
Clinton administration - which fervently wants to overhaul welfare - condemned
the student-aid restrictions. And education lobbyists from coast to coast
cranked up a campaign to kill them.

"These are people who play by the rules, who have come to this country, and it's
in our national interest to make sure they become productive contributors to the
economy," said David Merkowitz, a spokesman for the American Council on
Education, whose members include 2,000 public and private colleges.

"Now we're going to cut them off? It's counterproductive and foolish," he said.

Republican sponsors say it's time to make those who sponsor legal immigrants to
the United States honor their commitment that those immigrants won't be a drain
on taxpayers.

While the welfare bill now before Congress would not explicitly wipe out federal
financial aid to legal immigrants, it would change the arithmetic in critical
ways for those seeking that money.

For example, it would require students to report the income of their sponsors
when applying for federal education aid and would count that income as if it
were paid to the students. That alone would be enough to kick most of them out
of the eligibility pool. Sponsors are not legally liable to pay for the cost of
education.

Not enough money

"My brother is my sponsor and he has a family to support," said Ya Yang, 23, who
emigrated to the United States from China in 1992 and, with federal education
aid, will study electrical engineering at San Jose State University next
semester. "I don't think he has enough money for me."

According to a draft of a General Accounting Office study, California has more
at stake in welfare negotiations over education aid than any other state.

The GAO found that in California, legal immigrants receive nearly one-third of
so-called Pell Grants, federal aid packages that are designed to assist the
neediest of students.

Using data from 1992-'93, the most recent year for which information is
available, the GAO found that of the 100 schools with the most immigrant Pell
Grant recipients nationwide, 40 are in California.

And, largely because of the region's large Asian and Hispanic populations, the
numbers are dramatic in the Bay Area.

For example, the GAO reports, 67 percent of the Pell Grants at De Anza College
go to immigrants. At San Jose City College, that number is 59 percent; at San
Jose State, 38.5 percent.

Donald Ryan, director of financial aid at San Jose State, said more recent data
shows that 44 percent of Pell Grants there go to legal immigrants.

'An absolute nightmare'

"It's going to be an absolute nightmare," Ryan said of the proposed changes.

Jon Fuller, senior fellow at the National Association of Independent Colleges
and Universities, estimated that up to 90 percent of immigrant-aid recipients
would lose their eligibility under the new rules.

The GAO report shows that immigrants received $662 million, or 11 percent, of
the Pell Grants awarded in 1992-'93.

Students affected by the proposed cuts are permanent legal residents of the
United States or those who have applied for that status. They are not allowed to
apply for U.S. citizenship until they've been permanent legal residents for five
years.

While some education advocates worry about the Clinton administration's resolve
to strip the financial-aid language from a final welfare bill, Health and Human
Services Secretary Donna Shalala blasted the plan in a letter this week to House
Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo.

"The administration opposes proposals to make non-citizens indefinitely
ineligible for assistance from a wide range of means-tested programs, leaving
them with virtually no access to the social safety net until they become
citizens," Shalala wrote.

Ma Qing, 22, who came from China four years ago and receives federal aid to
attend Laney Col lege in Oakland, put it more bluntly:

"If they do something like this, I cannot go to school. . . . I will forget
about an education."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 30, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ELENA THE ENGINEER WILL MAKE A GREATER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY AND THE TAX
BASE THAN ELENA THE SALES CLERK A COLLEGE GRANT IS ACTUALLY AN INVESTMENT

BYLINE: JOANNE JACOBS column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 667 words


ELENA comes from the Philippines at the age of 12 as a legal immigrant, thanks
to the sponsorship of an aunt. Her parents work hard but don't make much money.
Elena does well in school and qualifies for San Jose State, where she hopes to
study engineering.

If Elena makes it through college, she will be a more productive worker,
probably a more informed citizen. She will pay a lot more taxes for the next 40
years.

Elena needs a grant, loan or work-study job. But she's turned down for federal
college aid because her sponsoring aunt's assets and income, added to her
parents' earnings, make her too "wealthy" to qualify.

That's not the way it works now, but if the welfare reform bills now in Congress
aren't amended, many foreign-born students will be cut off from college aid.

Currently, sponsors guarantee immigrants will not become a "public charge." They
don't guarantee that newcomers won't seek help in getting a good education. The
welfare legislation radically expands the definition of "public charge."

In the House version of the bill, an immigrant family would be the financial
responsibility of the sponsor, including education aid, until they become
naturalized citizens.

As a practical matter, Elena's aunt isn't willing or able to send her brother's
children through college.

The Senate version goes farther. Even as citizens, an immigrant family would be
the sponsor's financial responsibility, and therefore ineligible for most
federal aid, until they'd earned enough money to pay income tax for 10 years.
Naturalized citizens no longer would have the same rights as native-born
citizens.

If college aid is simply welfare, there's some logic in denying a handout to
newcomers who haven't contributed to the country.

But college aid isn't welfare. It's an investment. The reason the federal
government helps needy students get a college education is that it pays off for
society as a whole.

According to the American Council on Education, a college-educated male earns
$12,000 more a year on average than a man with a high school degree; for female
college graduates the differential is $9,200 a year.

That represents $400,000 to $500,000 in added productivity over a working life.
By contrast, the largest grant for low-income students is $2,340 a year. Elena
the engineer will make a greater contribution to the economy and the tax base
than Elena the sales clerk.

According to a draft report by the General Accounting Office, restricting
college aid to legal immigrants would be devastating to California students and
to California colleges.

Statewide, 120,000 legal immigrants receive nearly $200 million in federal
college aid. A third of low-income students who receive Pell grants, the major
need-based program, are legal immigrants. It's estimated most of these students
would be made ineligible.

Including loans and work-study programs, 75 percent of college aid comes from
federal sources, the American Council on Education estimates.

Most students already are working part time to help pay for college. Most
parents already are helping to the best of their ability. Most colleges are
tapped out on scholarship money.

"I believe these students just wouldn't be able to attend school," says Jack
Bradbury, associate director of financial aid at San Jose State, where 41
percent of Pell grants go to legal immigrants.

There's some logic in limiting welfare benefits to newcomers and in holding
sponsors accountable for keeping new immigrants off the dole.

But college aid isn't welfare.

The idea of welfare reform is to discourage dependency. So why make it harder
for immigrants to achieve independence?

College doesn't pay off for indifferent students, but it's the essential ladder
of social mobility for capable, motivated young people, and who cares where they
came from? What matters is where they are now and where they're going.

Elena's future is in America. America's future is in Elena's mind.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Joanne Jacobs is a member of the Mercury News editorial board.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                December 2, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MORE MEXICANS WINNING ASYLUM SURGE IN CASES LINKED TO CLAIMS OF OPPRESSION

BYLINE: Esther Schrader, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 800 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


After routinely rejecting all political-asylum requests from Mexican nationals
for the past five years, the United States has granted asylum to 55 Mexicans in
the past 14 months.

The change has come during a time when applications for asylum have soared -
from about 100 in 1990 to more than 9,000 this year. Although U.S. officials and
immigration rights advocates agree that the asylum approvals don't reflect a
shift in U.S. policy toward Mexico, there's disagreement about why more Mexicans
are applying.

Lawyers for Mexicans seeking asylum say it reflects the Mexican government's
increasing oppression of opposition parties and the repression of burgeoning
citizens movements. Officials of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
counter that much of the increase represents fraudulent applications from
Mexicans seeking to take advantage of a loophole - rescinded earlier this year -
that allowed them to work legally in the United States pending review of their
asylum requests.

Asylum is granted by federal immigration agents and judges on a case-by-case
basis. An important factor in the recent granting of asylum, U.S. officials and
immigration experts say, is a growing awareness of Mexico's political turmoil
among those who make those decisions.

"I think that immigration judges and immigration officers work on a kind of gut
instinct and they, like anyone else, read the newspapers and hear the
negative-sounding news on Mexico," said a high-level State Department official
familiar with asylum cases. "That's got to affect their decisions.

"But those judges and those officials have gotten no policy directives from the
(U.S.) government to look at Mexican cases any differently than they always
did."

Affirms abuses

To immigration advocates, the asylum cases support allegations of human rights
abuses by the Mexican government.

"I think these cases help show that there is a significant pattern of human
rights abuses against political opponents in Mexico," said immigration lawyer
Monica Schurtman. This week her client, Ana Maria Guillen, a former leader of
the leftist opposition party, became the 55th applicant to win asylum.

"I think there is a lot better documentation of human rights abuses than there
had been previously and that it is more known and available to advocates in the
U.S.," said Dan Kesselbrenner, director of the Immigration Project of the
National Lawyers Guild. "There certainly has been political activism and
repression in Mexico for a long, long time, but what seems to have changed is
that now there's more of a non-government presence active on the ground to
document it."

A Mexican official said Friday that although human rights abuses occur in
Mexico, the government has taken steps to curtail political repression and to
pursue reported abuses.

"Today there is freedom of expression and of political participation as never
before in Mexico," said Andres Valencia of the Mexican Foreign Relations
Ministry. "With human rights commissions in every state, the legal resources are
available to repair harm caused and to adopt ways of preventing such abuses in
the future."

From fiscal year 1990 through fiscal year 1995, which ended Sept. 30, asylum
applications jumped from just 122 to 9,304. Although the vast majority of
requests are turned down, the changes are striking. From 1990 to 1993, not a
single asylum application was approved. In 1994 five applications were granted,
and for fiscal year 1995 a total of 54 applications were approved.

Reasons for asylum

Under U.S. immigration laws, asylum may be granted if an applicant demonstrates
"a well-founded fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality,
political opinion or membership in a particular social group." Asylum can be
granted by an INS hearing officer or by a federal immigration judge if an
applicant appeals a denial.

Among those who have been granted asylum from Mexico since October 1994 are a
gay man who said he was tortured and raped by Mexican police, government critics
such as Ernesto Poblano, the former mayor of Ojinaga, and other political
activists. Many have cited torture, beatings and death threats, according to
lawyers for several applicants.

Citing confidentiality laws, the INS will not release details of those granted
asylum. But immigration lawyers say most Mexican cases involve political
activism, usually by left-wing opponents of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, which has held power in Mexico for 66 years.

CHART: Karh Kahler - MERCURY NEWS
Thousands of Mexicans seeking asylum in U.S.
Requests by Mexicans for asylum in the U.S.
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
[Chart not in database]
[951202 FR 1A 3; color]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 8, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELFARE VIGIL S.J. RALLY URGES REFORM BILL VETO

BYLINE: JULIE A. GALVAN Mercury News staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 636 words


About 100 protesters marched through downtown San Jose Thursday night, urging
President Clinton to veto pending welfare legislation because of the drastic
effect it would have on Santa Clara County.

The candlelight vigil and march, led by several community groups, started at the
Food Stamp Center at Sixth and Julian streets, where the lines for food stamps
will be much shorter if Republican welfare legislation passes, said Jorge
Gonzalez of Raza Si.

According to the Santa Clara County Social Services Agency, up to 23,000 legal
immigrants in the county, including current residents, would face losing food
stamps.

"It's time to give a strong message to Congress, our president and our local
leaders that we are against this welfare bill," Gonzales said. "We need to
remember that charity begins at home. Washington wants to forget that."

The bill, stalled in conference committee in a dispute over school lunches, is
likely to be vetoed by the president.

Under the bill, California would lose $4 billion in federal welfare payments,
food stamps, foster care and adoption assistance, and help for the elderly,
disabled and blind. In Santa Clara County that would mean the loss of $50
million. Immigrants and children would get hit the hardest.

Up to 27,000 unemployed families and 17,000 elderly, disabled or blind
immigrants stand to lose their benefits. And legal immigrants and refugees in
the county stand to lose about $260 million.

"In fact, two-thirds of all money lost to California will be lost to legal
immigrants alone," said Richard Hobbs, director of Catholic Charities
Immigration and Refugee Services.

"These people pay taxes and contribute to society, yet they now risk having
services cut out from under them. That was not part of the agreement when they
entered this country."

Amy Dean, chief executive officer of the South Bay AFL-CIO Central Labor
Council, said it's not only time to reform welfare but to reframe the debate.

"We just do not need reform that balances the federal budget on the backs of
working people, children, the poor and the disabled," Dean said. "It's time to
stop looking to immigrants as scapegoats, and to start looking toward corporate
welfare to see where these cuts should be coming from."

Some San Jose State students in need of loan programs could also suffer, as well
as children whose only crime was to be born poor, said protester Becky Garcia, a
member of the Low Income Support Network advocacy group.

"No one asks to be poor," Garcia told the crowd, which had marched downtown past
San Jose State and through "Christmas in the Park" before stopping in front of
the State Building on San Antonio Street.

"These children, as well as all low-income people, have rights, and need a
safety net to be there."

Garcia said that because of illness or a layoff, poverty can strike anyone - she
knows, she said, because that's what happened to her.

"I never wanted to be an Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC)
recipient," she said. "I knew of the stigma attached to receiving federal
assistance, and I didn't want to be a welfare mom. But I had no choice."

Garcia lost her job as a waitress in July. For three months she struggled to
take care of herself and her 3-year-old son, Jeremy, without applying for aid.

That struggle left her thousands of dollars in debt, she said, and in October,
she finally decided to accept government help.

She is now taking classes at Computer Business College and working part time as
a banquet server. She said she will not be on AFDC forever, and wants people to
realize that for a lot of people, it's the only way out of a life of poverty,
even homelessness.

"None of us is beyond being poor," she said. "No one is invincible. We need to
learn to help each other."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAT WEST - MERCURY NEWS
Theresa Mendez, left, explains speaker's comments to Mary Elena Aguila at
Thursday's vigil over welfare in downtown San Jose.
[951208 LO 1B 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 27, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FLAME FLICKERING AFTER PROP. 187 IMMIGRATION REFORM: TWO DIFFERING PLANS SEEK TO
EXPAND THE 1994 MEASURE.

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1176 words


They've both been called the sons of Proposition 187, but the parents of the
1994 ballot measure can't seem to agree on a rightful heir.

Is it Save Our State II, aimed at denying automatic citizenship to the children
of illegal immigrants? Or is it the new kid on the initiative block, the
Residency Status Verification Petition (RSVP), which would require the state to
issue "fraud-proof" identity cards that would be necessary to obtain most public
benefits?

Many of the people who pushed 187 are worried that the duel will end with
neither measure making the ballot, leaving immigration reform - the grass-roots
political phenomenon of 1994 - without a second act.

In interviews this past week, key proponents of 187 made clear that the
coalitions that propelled the measure have - in many cases - fallen apart.
Grass-roots enthusiasm has given way to personality clashes and cynicism about
the initiative process. And with SOS II facing a mid-February deadline to gain
433,000 valid signatures to make the ballot, there may not be the money or the
organization needed to make it happen.

"When Proposition 187 came along, we had a ready-made army," said Rick Oltman,
who led the Northern California campaign to pass the measure, designed to deny
public benefits to illegal immigrants. "We were all fired up and mad. We're
still angry, but we're not an army anymore."

Nor - in 1996 - are they fighting on the same turf.

Two years ago, the political climate couldn't have been more hospitable for
immigration reform. Rewind the tape to California's well-publicized battles over
proposed hiring halls for undocumented immigrants, the "illegal nanny" problems
of U.S. attorney general nominees Zoe Baird and Kimba Wood, ships carrying
illegal Chinese immigrants hitting both coasts.

"Proposition 187 didn't write itself," Oltman said, "but it virtually passed
itself."

Affirmative-action draw

But this past year, a different cause - the anti-affirmative-action movement -
has caught the political imagination, siphoning volunteers from the SOS army.
Ironically, these defectors may also be headed for disappointment because the
affirmative-action measure is struggling to make the ballot.

When California's immigration reform movement came together, it was a loose
coalition that included everyone from current and former government officials to
mainline conservatives to anti-immigration zealots. The coalition was focused
enough then to pass the measure with a staggering 59 percent of the vote. Today
there is serious disagreement over where its next battle should be fought.

Lawmaker: Focus on courts

State Sen. Richard Mountjoy, R-Arcadia, whom many credit with saving 187 by
guaranteeing the money necessary to qualify it for the ballot, said he believes
the focus should be the courts. The initiative has been in legal limbo since
U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer tossed out most of its key provisions in
November, ruling that only the federal government had the right to regulate
immigration.

So Mountjoy is sitting this initiative round out. "I'm not doing anything with
either of them," he said. "You only have so much time."

Others: It's Capitol Hill

Other 187 leaders, convinced that liberal judges will bottle up the measure for
years, insist the place for war is the nation's capital. There, Congress is
gearing up to pass legislation designed to get tough on illegal and legal
immigration.

"If we're going to gather signatures," Oltman said, "we should petition the
California congressional delegation to support the federal bills."

But even those willing to try another popular vote disagree on what the right
initiative would say. And as they battle over RSVP vs. SOS II, their debate has
taken on a sometimes personal tone.

When RSVP was introduced earlier this month, it was publicly trashed by Ron
Prince, head of the SOS II campaign.

"We have enough ID cards as it is," he said, arguing that the problem is that
government agencies "don't share information with each other."

There is also concern about the opposition RSVP might breed: Critics predict the
emergence of a bizarre but powerful anti-RSVP coalition, including leftist
American Civil Liberties Union supporters and rightist John Birchers concerned
about "one-world" government.

"When you have mandatory fingerprinting of babies (an RSVP provision), it opens
the door to the feds really doing what a lot of people have feared for a long
time," said Barbara Coe, a Huntington Beach activist who was one of the "Circle
of 10" that helped write 187.

Coe is backing SOS II. But that initiative is also drawing sharp criticism - in
part because it's such a long shot.

Because it is proposed as a U.S. constitutional amendment, SOS II would not
become law until approved by 37 other state legislatures.

"You're taking the long way around the barn," Oltman said, echoing John Wayne in
"The Shootist."

Alan Nelson, the Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner under
President Reagan who drafted much of 187, said he was asked to back SOS II - but
declined. "It seemed to me to be a mishmash and a real waste of time," said
Nelson, who said he intends to support RSVP.

Deadlines approaching

The SOS campaign must turn in its petitions by Feb. 14 to qualify for the
November ballot. Prince was reluctant to make a prediction as to whether it
would qualify until the petitions, being circulated almost exclusively in
Southern California, come back to SOS headquarters.

But others were quick to offer a forecast.

"I don't think Prince has the managerial skills to get it on the ballot by
himself," Oltman said. "He's probably going to fall flat on his face."

Said Mountjoy: "I think Prince is running out of time."

Even Prince concedes that the SOS II campaign has been hampered by a dwindling
number of volunteers. Many people involved in the 187 campaign, he said, have
moved out of California because they're fed up with the state being overrun by
illegal immigrants.

RSVP will have a bit longer to prove its mettle. Written by Ted Hilton, a former
adviser to the San Diego County Board of Supervisors on the impact of illegal
immigration, the initiative must gain 433,000 valid signatures by May 6.

Despite their differing goals and philosophies, some immigration reform
proponents say they're not worried about the RSVP-SOS II battle. What's most
important, they say, is that the public remains deeply interested in the issue
of illegal immigration.

"This is a historical struggle for the heart and soul of our state and the
Southwest," said Glenn Spencer of Sherman Oaks, head of the Voice of Citizens
Together.

Bill King of Newport Beach, head of Americans Against Illegal Immigration,
predicted that immigration reform groups would eventually rally around any
measure that makes the ballot.

And he cautioned against reading too much into the chaos - which, he noted, is
the nature of grass roots.

"One good thing about our side," he said, "is that we never seem to be totally
organized."

...

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SONS OF 187
Backers of Proposition 187, the initiative aimed at preventing illegal
immigrants from receiving most public benefits, are gathering signatures for two
follow-up measures. Here is what each would do:
Save Our State II.
* The initiative would instruct the California Legislature to ratify a federal
"immigration amendment" dictating that Congress establish clear "eligibility
requirements" for immigrants.
* The amendment, if ratified by 37 other states, would supersede the 14th
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which gives citizenship to anybody born on
U.S. soil. Under the proposed amendment, any person whose mother is an illegal
immigrant would "remain subject to the jurisdiction of the mother's country."
* The amendment would also prohibit any U.S. citizen from being a citizen of
another country.
RSVP
* The Residency Status Verification Petition would require the state Department
of Motor Vehicles to issue a "fraud-proof, reliable and honest" driver's license
and state identification card.
* The measure would make the DMV cards a requirement for obtaining worker's
compensation, unemployment and disability insurance, public postsecondary
education, certain Medi-Cal benefits, public housing and other social services.
* RSVP also requires fingerprinting of newborns and listing mothers' immigration
status on birth certificates.
Source: State Attorney General's Office

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 9, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RECORD BUDGET FOR INS IMMIGRATION: WINDFALL WILL BE USED TO TIGHTEN THE BORDER,
REDUCE CITIZENSHIP BACKLOG.

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 908 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


U.S. immigration officials announced plans Thursday to boost the roster of
Border Patrol agents, workplace inspectors and naturalization employees - a move
that will mean tougher scrutiny for San Jose area businesses and shorter waits
for immigrants hoping to become citizens.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, one of the few federal agencies to
receive a big budget increase from the Republican Congress, will use its cash
windfall to significantly increase the agents patrolling the California-Mexico
border, staffing ports of entry and inspecting California's workplaces, adding
1,260 new staffers to the state, an increase of more than 25 percent.

"With this budget, the INS will continue its three-year effort to beef up the
border - especially the Southwest border - and remove criminal and other
deportable aliens from our streets and prisons," INS Commissioner Doris Meissner
said in unveiling specifics of the agency's record $2.6 billion budget, a 24
percent increase over last year.

The INS' San Francisco district office, which covers 49 of California's 58
counties, will see whopping increases in staff, adding 91 employees to its
150-member staff that enforces immigration laws.

In addition, the office will add some 70 to 90 positions to cut down on the
backlog of immigration applications. About a quarter of those new employees will
work in the INS office in San Jose, said Thomas Schiltgen, INS district
director.

The passage of Proposition 187 in November 1994, coupled with anti-immigrant
fervor, has been responsible for the number of citizenship applications to
skyrocket. San Jose and other INS offices are facing a mammoth backlog of
naturalization applications, Schiltgen said.

More S.J. investigators

The number of San Jose-based investigators auditing and investigating Silicon
Valley businesses suspected of hiring illegal immigrants will increase 50
percent - from eight employees to 12, he said.

INS critics fear that such an aggressive hiring effort will fill the INS and
Border Patrol with inexperienced rookies and result in a dramatic increase in
abuses at the border - a recurrent problem with past hiring pushes at the Border
Patrol and other law enforcement agencies.

And the prospect of 58 new inspectors trolling the state's factories,
restaurants and construction sites prompted concern among immigrants' rights
groups, who contend that all Hispanics and Asians become suspect during INS
raids, such as recent Los Angeles-area operations at garment factories and a
public disease-control clinic.

"We don't think the INS should be running around trying to round up people who
are already here," said Cecilia Munoz of the National Council of La Raza. "Going
after abusive employers is one thing. Making raids is another."

But Meissner vowed that agents, focusing on industries with a history of hiring
illegal immigrants, would not make haphazard raids. The Clinton administration
has vowed to reinvigorate the work site enforcement program, which officials
acknowledge had become a low priority despite a watershed 1986 law making it a
crime for employers to hire illegal immigrants.

Election-year issue

The INS budget plans, announced with some fanfare in both Washington and Los
Angeles, are yet another indication of how the Clinton administration is eager
to turn the immigration issue in his favor during this election year -
especially in vote-rich California, where primaries are scheduled for next month
and the Republican convention is slated for the border city of San Diego in
August.

Just last month, the administration unveiled a much-ballyhooed border buildup
that included new agents at the border and airports, the enhanced use of
checkpoints, and additional military and police assistance.

The budget increase for the INS - at a time of cutbacks, furloughs and
government shutdowns - also underscores how the once-obscure issue of
immigration has emerged as a major concern in the White House and on Capitol
Hill, particularly since Proposition 187 galvanized the debate.

Illegal immigrants

The INS estimates that more than 4 million illegal immigrants are now in the
United States, but nobody is sure how many enter each year. The INS says it
stopped about 1 million illegal immigrants at the border last year - but many of
those were people arrested several times.

The administration's goal, said Attorney General Janet Reno, is to "build a firm
and fair immigration policy that upholds the rule of law even as we protect our
immigrant traditions and welcome new citizens and legal immigrants."

The 4,125-person boost in staffing nationwide is a dramatic one for the INS,
which employs about 19,000 people - including more than 5,000 Border Patrol
agents - in locations scattered from the San Diego border community of San
Ysidro to Maine. Although staffing will rise generally throughout the country,
other places where the increases will be concentrated include Texas, Arizona and
New York.

Along with the increased hiring, Meissner said the agency will put new resources
into detaining and deporting illegal immigrants and improving computer
technology to keep track of them. In California, there will be 76 new staffers
hired to process incarcerated immigrants for deportation at the end of their
prison sentences. And an automated fingerprint identification system will be
expanded to six additional locations in California.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: INS CHANGES IN CALIFORNIA
Immigration and Naturalization Service staff and equipment increases in
California:
* 462 new Border Patrol positions, added to 1,665 already in place.
* 235 new inspectors and anti-smuggling agents, added to 248.
* 563 positions for detention, work-site enforcement and immigration services.
* $7.3 million for new fencing and repairs.
* 747 new sensors, 27 infrared scopes and hundreds of new radios.
Source: Immigration and Naturalization ServiceThe Los Angeles Times and Mercury
News Staff Writer Ken McLaughlin contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 21, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION BILLS ARE UNFAIR TO FAMILIES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 391 words


FOURTEEN years ago, Rey Villamor of Santa Clara applied for family immigration
visas for two sons and a daughter in the Philippines. In their late 20s and
early 30s, the three still wait, having delayed marriage to avoid jeopardizing
chances of joining family here.

Now, the U.S. Congress may slam the door in their faces. Two bills to constrict
legal immigration, particularly for family reunification, would tell all those
in line: go away. Adult children of U.S. citizens would become like strangers,
ineligible for family sponsorship.

To the nearly 3 million waiting in line - one-third of them spouses and minor
children of permanent residents - the bills are unfair.

These anti-family bills, sponsored by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., and Rep. Lamar
Smith, R-Texas, are especially unjust to applicants from "'backlogged"'
countries. One million people wait from Mexico, 564,000 from the Philippines,
the overwhelming majority for family visas. Because of the curious formula for
parceling out visas, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is just now
approving applications filed in 1977 for siblings of U.S. citizens born in the
Philippines.

The slow and convoluted process acts as a disincentive for some immigrants to
take out U.S. citizenship. Filipino legal residents who become citizens have to
wait longer for their grown children to immigrate.

The immigration reform bills in Congress would solve these complexities by
declaring adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens and residents ineligible
for family reunification visas. No provision would be made for those who have
paid their fees and waited in line.

In the case of Filipinos, this trick would be yet another instance of the U.S.
duplicity over citizenship. Early in this century, Filipinos were imported as
farm laborers because they were U.S. nationals, but were denied citizenship and
property rights. A 1934 law reclassified them as aliens, to ease deportation
should they become troublesome. During World War II, Uncle Sam dangled
citizenship as a reward for Filipinos who would fight the Japanese alongside
U.S. GIs. It took half a century for the United States to make good on that
promise.

Immigration law certainly has room for reform. Closing the door on those who
have played by the rules and waited for years isn't the way to begin.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL
RELATED STORY: Page 6B

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GARY REYES -- MERCURY NEWS
Rey Villamor is still waiting for his two sons and daughter in the Philippines
to join him in Santa Clara. He applied for family immigration visas 14 years
ago.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 25, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FILIPINOS FRETTING OVER PROPOSED IMMIGRATION REFORM;
SWEEPING LEGISLATION WOULD AFFECT GROUP MORE SERIOUSLY THAN OTHERS

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 20A

LENGTH: 553 words


As he has waited patiently for nine years for his children to gain U.S.
permission to move here from the Philippines, Rey Villamor of Santa Clara has
sent them thousands of dollars, paying for their engineering education in the
hope that someday they would work in Silicon Valley.

But if the U.S. Congress adopts proposed immigration reforms that would end such
family reunification, Villamor might never see his children here.

The legislation, which proposes to reduce immigration by about 30 percent, would
hit Filipinos particularly hard. Of all the Filipino applicants waiting to
immigrate to the United States, 93 percent would become ineligible. The effects
would be felt strongly in the Bay Area, home in 1990 to 261,273
Filipino-Americans - the second-largest Filipino-American community in the
nation.

"There would be no wait if you came from any other country," said Richard Konda,
an Asian Law Alliance attorney in San Jose. "But if you're Filipino, you wait 10
to 15 years."

Inbound traffic

Immigration is extremely backlogged for Filipinos because so many want to come
to the United States, and only 27,558 are allowed in each year.

While the proposed immigration reforms could snarl many family ties, in other
ways it could benefit the Philippines.

"Why has the Philippines not grown more like other countries?" said Edgar
Rodriguez, professor of economics at the University of Calgary. "Some say it's
because the best people have left. If you make it harder to migrate, it will
force these professional and technical people to stay and help the country
develop. By forcing people to stay, you force remittances to continue, too."

Blurring the lines

Under the proposed legislation, these immigration categories would no longer
exist:

* Unmarried adult sons and daughters of U.S. citizens: of the 70,000 worldwide
on the waiting list, 50,000 are Filipino.

* Married sons and daughters of U.S. citizens: of 260,000 worldwide, 150,000 are
Filipino.

* Unmarried adult sons and daughters of permanent residents: of 500,000
worldwide, 40,000 are from the Philippines.

* Brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens: of the 1.5 million worldwide, 280,000
are Filipino.

Proponents such as professor Norm Matloff, who has researched immigration trends
and testified before Congress, wants these categories eliminated because he
believes applicants have been dishonest.

"People who come here under family-reunification policy are doing so for the
same reason any other immigrant does, and that is economic betterment," Matloff
said. "They are not coming here for family reasons."

Worlds apart

Villamor, 57, says his children want to come here to work, but even more to be
with their parents, whom they haven't seen in seven years.

After immigrating in 1981, Villamor was able to bring his wife and five minor
children to the United States seven years later, but not his adult children.
Visa applications were approved for the three in 1987, but they faced a wait of
more than 10 years. So they waited, even delaying marriage because that would
change their status and increase their wait.

If his children cannot immigrate, Villamor is prepared to move back to the
Philippines to help set them up in business. To him, it will be the United
States' loss and the Philippines' gain.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: See related stories on pages 1A, 20A

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Rey Villamor holds a photo of 32-year-old son he has not seen in seven years.
[960225 FR 20A 6; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 6, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-MEXICAN OFFICIAL'S CONFINEMENT EASED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 102 words


The Clinton administration lost the right Tuesday tokeep a former Mexican
attorney general injail pending his deportation hearing, but a court ordered him
held under house arrest until immigration authorities decide his fate. In a
double-barreled ruling, a U.S. appeals court denied a request by the Justice
Department to block a lower-court order that it free Mario Ruiz Massieu on
grounds that the statute under which he was jailed is constitutional. But the
appeals judge also ordered Ruiz Massieu kept under house arrest, unable to leave
his home in New Jersey withou permission of immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Ruiz Massieu
[960306 FR 10A 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 14, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 315 words


Business interests won a key concession on immigration reform as the Senate
Judiciary Committee rejected an effort to significantly raise fines for
employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. The panel's vote to strike the
stiffer penalties from the Senate's immigration bill adds to a string of
legislative victories for businesses that critics say are taking some of the
teeth out of immigration reform.
* Scientists have finished compiling detailed genetic maps of humans and of the
mouse, major milestones in the international effort to understand all the
hereditary information contained in human DNA. "These two maps have already
changed the face of human and mouse biology," National Center for Human Genome
Research officials wrote in an editorial accompanying official publication of
the maps in the journal Nature.
* The government may drop a plan to make slaughter plants test raw poultry and
red meat for salmonella, the major cause of sometimes deadly food poisoning, in
favor of cheaper tests for harmless bacteria. Consumer groups charged that the
change, if carried out, would remove a major prod for the poultry industry to
clean up the more than 7 billion birds that speed past inspectors each year.
* President Clinton, Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker and financier David Hale made
a series of telephone calls to James McDougal in the months before a spate of
business deals that prosecutors say were fraudulent, a witness said in Little
Rock, Ark. Clinton and Tucker were on a short list of associates whose calls
were to be put directly through to McDougal, then the owner of Madison Guaranty
Savings and Loan, McDougal's ex-secretary, Sue Strayhorn, testified. Tucker,
McDougal and his ex-wife, Susan, are accused of fraud and conspiracy involving
$3 million in federally backed loans they received from Madison and Hale's small
investment firm.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Tucker
[960314 FR 9A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 20, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICANS WANT A CHANGE - CUT, REFORM LEGAL IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: IRA MEHLMAN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 265 words


ACCORDING to a February Roper Poll, 83 percent of Americans believe that
immigration levels are excessive and that the process of selecting immigrants
pays little heed to our national needs. While much attention has been paid to
illegal immigration, it is clear that Americans want legal immigration
overhauled too.
Today, the House of Representatives begins debate on legislation that would take
an important first step toward meaningful reform. A similar bill is on its way
to the Senate floor. These bills would reduce immigration by about 25 percent,
to a still overly generous level of about 575,000 annually (approximately the
levels that existed before 1990).

Second, the legislation would end family chain migration. Our current law is an
open-ended entitlement program that promises immigrants not only the right to
bring a spouse and minor children, but a whole range of extended relatives who,
in turn, apply for their extended families. Aside from creating a never-ending
chain (some 3.7 million such relatives have already applied), the system does
not select immigrants based on personal qualifications. Consequently, immigrants
are now 50 percent more likely to be dependent on public assistance than the
rest of the population.

Some have suggested that the bills be split and that legal and illegal
immigration be addressed separately. This is an overt effort to kill legal
immigration reform and will only heighten the public's discontent. Our entire
immigration policy is dysfunctional, and the sooner it is reformed the better it
will be for all concerned.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Ira Mehlman is the California media director for the Federation for American
Immigration Reform (FAIR).

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 20, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON GETS ON BORDER BANDWAGON VOTE ROUNDUP: HE WOULD ADD 700 TO PATROL AND
INCREASE INS BUDGET 16 PERCENT.

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 696 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


President Clinton, seeking to polish immigration credentials that are key in
voter-rich border states, said Tuesday he wants to boost the U.S. immigration
agency's budget by 16 percent and add 700 officers to the nation's border
police.

If his budget plan is approved by a Congress eager to seal porous borderlands,
it would mean a doubling of the Immigration and Naturalization Service budget
since Clinton took office in 1993.

P "We are seeing real results, but we must build on the progress we have made,"
Attorney General Janet Reno said after Clinton sent his $3.1 billion request to
Congress as part of a $1.64 trillion election-year budget package.

Sweeping revision debated

The president's INS request came as the House opened debate on the most sweeping
revision of U.S. immigration laws in decades, considering deep reductions in
legal immigration and sharp penalties for those who enter and stay here
unlawfully.

The Republican-sponsored House bill would go even further than the
administration's enforcement plan, calling for 1,000 new border patrol agents a
year for each of the next five years.

"This budget provides a 16 percent increase for INS and continues our commitment
to a firm and equitable immigration policy that enforces the rule of law at our
borders and in the American workplace," Reno said. "That means more than a 100
percent increase since we began in 1993 to reverse years of neglect at our
borders."

The push for more INS funding comes during a presidential campaign in which
tough talk on immigration has been standard fare. Republican Pat Buchanan opened
his California campaign Tuesday in Los Angeles decrying illegal immigrants'
impact on state services.

Pay for extra border agents

Clinton's request would increase the INS budget by $428 million. Some $97
million of that would pay for the extra border patrol agents - chiefly along the
Southwest border - bringing that force to 6,507 agents by the end of next year.

Immigration officials, who say they prevented 1 million illegal immigrants from
crossing U.S. borders last year, estimate that more than 4 million illegal
immigrants are now in the United States.

Once a bureaucratic backwater, the INS is being rebuilt with what officials call
unprecedented spending increases for measures to crack down on illegal
immigrants that became even more popular after California voters approved
Proposition 187 in 1994. The state constitutional amendment, hamstrung by court
decisions invalidating many of its provisions, called for the denial of most
public services to illegal immigrants.

While other federal agencies face severe cutbacks or even dismantlement, the INS
barely has been able to keep up with the money being funneled to it. For
example, a year ago when the agency sought 700 new border control agents,
Congress approved 800.

Clinton wants to add a total of 1,900 employees to the agency in the new fiscal
year, including 150 inspectors at land entry ports in the Southwest, and another
198 inspectors for air ports of entry.

Wilson may be dissatisfied

The president wants $500 million to reimburse states, most notably California
and Florida, for their costs to incarcerate criminal aliens, the same as
provided in the current budget. California would receive about half of that, and
Gov. Pete Wilson, who has sued over the issue, is certain to say it is not
enough.

The INS is asking for an extra $26 million to speed citizenship applications.
The agency expects to process more than 1.3 million naturalization applications
this year and another 900,000 in 1997.

Unlike a year ago when he quickly dropped the unpopular idea, Clinton is not
seeking a border-crossing fee in his new budget.

The House is expected to debate its overhaul of immigration laws this week, when
efforts to trim legal immigration from 775,000 to 542,000 face fierce debate.
The bill would eliminate visas for the brothers and sisters and most adult
children of U.S. citizens. Senate floor votes are scheduled for late April.

CHART:   MERCURY NEWS
INS' growing budget
Source: INS
[960320 FR 10A 2]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, Chart;
PHOTO: Reno
[960320 FR 10A 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 28, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 248 words


Legal immigration to the United States declined last year for the fourth year in
a row, recording the steepest sustained drop since World War II despite public
perceptions of a rising tide of immigrants. Figures to be announced today by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service show that 720,461 legal immigrants were
admitted in fiscal 1995, more than 20 percent fewer than in 1993. Foes of the
immigration policy charged, however, that annual admissions of immigrants are
still too high, that last year's drop was "an aberration" and that the INS
numbers do not account for tens of thousands who become de facto residents every
year after applying for political asylum.
* Republicans will ship President Clinton stopgap legislation to keep government
running if budget differences have not been settled by week's end, House Speaker
Newt Gingrich said. The two sides narrowed some disputes as they continued their
marathon battle over a $160 billion measure financing dozens of agencies for the
remaining half of fiscal 1996. But major divisions remain over social spending
and environmental rules, Gingrich, R-Ga., said.
* New rules will curb one of the most broadly criticized practices of health
maintenance organizations - rewarding doctors for limiting health services. The
rules apply only to recipients of federal health insurance programs for the
elderly and poor, but HMOs and other managed health care groups worry that more
and wider restrictions are coming.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 21, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

EX-MONK HELD FOR LYING ABOUT ARREST

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO


A former Buddhist monk, who was defrocked after reports that he seduced female
followers, was arrested by immigration authorities for allegedly denying he had
been arrested in Thailand.

Phra Yantra Amaro Bhikkhu, once considered one of Thailand's holiest men, was
arrested April 8 when he arrived at the downtown federal building for what he
thought would be an interview regarding his application for legal residency,
said Kathy Mauntino, his immigration lawyer.

Yantra had applied for legal resident status in the United States under a
special provision of immigration law for religious workers.

Yantra was arrested on a federal grand jury indictment charging that he lied
last September when he swore on an immigration document that he had never been
arrested. In fact, according to the indictment, Yantra had been arrested in
April 1995 in Thailand.

Yantra has been turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
is seeking to deport him for overstaying the six-month period allowed on his
original visitor's visa.

He is being held without bail at the INS Service Center in El Centro.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    MAY 3, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 241 words


The District of Columbia campaign of Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., is
running an ad in the Washington Blade urging the newspaper's gay readers to
support Dole's presidential bid in next week's primary. The unusual strategy by
the Bob Dole Delegate Committee appears aimed at countering a challenge to Dole
by an uncommitted slate of delegates that, according to a report in Thursday's
Blade, includes seven gay Republicans. That slate was endorsed recently by the
Capitol Area Log Cabin Club, the D.C. branch of the gay GOP group.
* The government asked an immigration appeals board to set a standard that would
grant asylum to women facing genital mutilation only in extreme cases that
"shock the conscience." But a lawyer for a West African teen-ager who was
refused asylum in a mutilation case argued against such guidelines, saying the
Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to give judges excuses to deny
women asylum. "The government isn't saying it wants to open the door. It wants
to close the door for many of these women," said attorney Karen Masalo. David
Martin, general counsel for the INS, asked the board to use the case to set
standards to help "those who really need protection."
* Pilots flying into icy weather have a new set of directives on how to
recognize danger and how to escape it. A series of 18 directives affecting 29
types of airplanes was issued by the Federal Aviation Administration.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              118 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 3, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LEGAL IMMIGRANTS FACE TERROR IN TERRORISM LAW: DEPORTATION

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1153 words


Refugio Rubio Arias, Mexico-born but a legal U.S. resident for 33 years, applied
for citizenship in January. He had one blot on his record: a 1972 conviction for
marijuana possession.

In the 24 years since his conviction, he had lived a clean life. He had worked
as a pipe fitter at the same company for 15 years. He and his wife had built a
house in Vallejo, where they raised seven boys. His lawyer believes he had a
strong case for citizenship.

But when Rubio checked in last month at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in San Francisco, he was arrested, jailed and told he would be
deported for the 1972 felony - an offense for which he had already served months
in jail.

Thousands or even tens of thousands of other legal immigrants nationwide, and
hundreds in the Bay Area, face a similar plight.

Unknown to Rubio, and practically unnoticed outside of the nation's capital, the
number of criminal actions for which a non-citizen could be deported was
expanded by Congress in the anti-terrorism law it passed in April.

Under the old law, foreigners with at least seven years' legal residence in the
United States who had also committed deportable offenses could ask a judge for
permission to stay in the United States on humanitarian grounds. The crimes had
to be punishable by no more than a five-year prison sentence. Now, a judge's
ability to grant such permission has been almost eliminated - even in cases in
which the felon has created a new life.

"Most people were completely unaware," said Camille Cook, Rubio's San
Francisco-based attorney.

While no one knows for sure how many legal residents committed felonies at some
point in their lives, the number of would-be citizens who have applied for the
waiver offers some clue into the size of the relevant population. In the 12
months that ended Oct. 31, 1995, 2,303 people received such waivers, out of
5,330 who applied nationally. In the previous 12 months, 1,778 received waivers
out of 4,134 who applied, according to INS figures.

"The numbers are very, very small and don't affect in any meaningful way the
demographics of immigration," said Mark Silverman of the Immigrant Legal
Resource Center, which has San Francisco and East Palo Alto offices. "This is
not only anti-immigrant but anti-family and anti-human rights."

A large portion of the people applying for waivers had immigrated as children
and were convicted of drug offenses, immigration lawyers say.

Supporters few, foes vocal

Supporters of the new law are hard to find in Washington. Con gressional staff
members, activist groups, lawyers and even INS officials say they don't know
exactly who put the immigration provisions in the anti-terrorism bill, although
similar measures were in an earlier House crime bill. Opponents, however, are
outspoken.

Immigration lawyers say many of the people who could now be deported are people
who have lived here for years, sometimes their whole lives. If they are sent
back to their countries of origin, their families will be broken apart and they
will be returning to countries they do not know, where they have no friends or
family and often do not speak the language.

Typical is the case of Manuel Sardinha, a 26-year-old Santa Clara resident. Born
to Portuguese parents in South Africa, he moved with them to the United States
when he was 7. He has never been back to South Africa.

Sardinha has been jailed twice in the United States, once for possession of a
stolen vehicle and once for evading a police officer. After the latest jail
sentence ended about a year ago, the INS began to deport him to South Africa.

"I've been here 20 years," he said in an interview. "I was raised here, you know
what I mean? I'm American!"

In another case, Joe M., who would tell his story only if his full name was not
used, moved to the United States in 1969 with his Costa Rican parents. He was 5
years old. After moving to California at age 17, he was arrested twice on drug
charges. The INS is in the process of deporting the 33-year-old to Costa Rica,
where he has never been as an adult.

"I have been clean and sober for the last three to four years," the Santa Cruz
resident said. "I haven't even received a ticket or nothing. Basically, I have
turned my life around."

Two worst parts of new law

"The worst part of the law is that it doesn't recognize that people can be
rehabilitated," said Byron Park, an immigration attorney whose 37 cases of
people eligible to stay under the old program have been reduced to one. "The
second-worst part is that people who are deported are probably going to sneak
back in."

A deportee who is caught in the United States can be jailed for 10 to 15 years.

INS general counsel David Martin, who wants to see the law modified, concedes
nonetheless that the current law will speed deportation procedures and save
money. Yet he added that the government should recognize that breaking some
human ties, what lawyers call "equities," might be harmful.

"There ought to be some capacity for recognition of the equities that somebody
has developed, and these cases involve individuals who have developed those ties
perfectly lawfully," Martin said.

Immigration attorneys and civil rights groups also worry about the vague wording
of the new law. INS offices around the country initially interpreted it to mean
that any non-citizen who had been convicted of a felony must be deported, no
matter how long ago the offense was committed.

But arrests of people with old convictions, like Rubio's, prompted an outcry
from immigration lawyers and activist groups. On May 7, a few days after the new
law took effect, the INS instruct ed local offices not to arrest people with old
convictions. Although he and other former felons still face deportation
proceedings, Rubio was released from INS detention May 10.

Judge taking action on own

One immigration judge in San Francisco is taking action on his own.
Administrative law judge Bernard J. Hornbach has said he will throw out cases of
non-citizens with criminal convictions that occurred prior to the new law. Other
judges have not said what they will do.

Immigration lawyers and the INS are now are trying to get the law changed. The
Senate version of an omnibus immigration bill that will be discussed in a
House-Senate conference committee this week restores the ability of judges to
waive deportation under special circumstances.

Congress originally adopted the waivers because politicians got tired of
constantly being petitioned by legal residents for legislation to allow them to
stay in the country.

"Clearly, Congress is going to want a strong statement on criminal aliens,"
Martin said. But if the new law isn't changed, he said, the volume of demand for
legislation affecting just one person or family will probably increase. "As the
volume builds up, I suspect history will repeat itself."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: BY RICHARD WISDOM - MERCURY NEWS
Refugio Rubio Arias holds one of the chickens his family uses for food and eggs.
Because of a 1972 marijuana conviction, he faces deportation, even though he has
lived in Vallejo and worked as a pipe fitter for 15 years.
[960603 FR 14A 5]
PHOTO: Rubio
New law has him fighting deportation
[960603 FR 1A 6; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              119 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 24, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PLAN WOULD CUT HEALTH BENEFITS FOR IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 190 words


An estimated 830,000 immigrants living in California, predominantly Latino women
and children, would lose Medi-Cal health care benefits under immigration changes
being considered in Congress, according a study being released today.

The study by the University of California, Los Angeles provides the first
comprehensive look at how the changes, almost certain to gain final passage,
would affect health care for California's poor.

Among other effects, the new restrictions would boost the ranks of those without
health insurance to 7.4 million - more than 25 percent of the state's
non-elderly population, the study says.

The immigrants would lose Medi-Cal coverage under the legislation because it
would create a new financial means test, requiring non-citizens to include the
income of their sponsors along with their own in determining whether they fall
within the income threshold to qualify for the program.

A separate but related study by the U.S. Census Bureau found that each year at
least one in five Americans goes without medical coverage for a month or more.
Many of those might be helped by the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              120 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    JUNE 27, 1996 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

COALITION VOWS TO FOIL IMMIGRATION REFORMS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 73 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


A coalition of health care providers and educators - including the city's school
board president - pledges to continue providing services to children and their
parents regardless of their immigration status.

Members of the Immigrant Rights Action Coalition said Tuesday they will refuse
to comply with an immigration reform bill nearing passage in Congress. The bill
would deny education and other services to undocumented children.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              121 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 27, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 167 words


Responding to an epidemic of fires at black Southern churches, the Senate
unanimously approved legislation to stiffen penalties for arson at places of
worship and expand federal authority to investigate.
* Immigration authorities issued a poster seeking 10 illegal immigrants wanted
for deportation, from a Taiwanese martial-arts expert who peddled marijuana, to
a Jamaican who may be armed and dangerous. The list includes two other
Jamaicans, two men from the Dominican Republic, a Mexican, a Lebanese and an
Italian. Most have been convicted of drug-related offenses; the 10th person, a
Tonga native, was convicted of manslaughter.
* Amtrak engineer Don Noble told the National Transportation Safety Board that
he did not hit the brakes before a head-on crash last winter because he was
vainly trying to get his locomotive onto another track. Eleven people died in
the Feb. 16 collision between the Capitol Limited and a Maryland commuter train
in blowing snow in the Washington suburbs.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              122 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 9, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RENTAL TRUCK HELD 40 IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 64 words


A rental truck that rear-ended a car at a toll booth on the Chesapeake Bay
Bridge in Annapolis, Md., turned out to be loaded with 40 illegal immigrants,
crouched in the back in deplorable conditions. Two illegal immigrants were in
front and 37 men and one young girl, from Guatemala and Mexico, spent as long as
three days crowded into the unheated, dark cargo space, police said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              123 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 7, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON SEIZES THE CENTER

BYLINE: Morton Kondracke

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 370 words


While his Republican rivals struggle for the White House nomination, President
Clinton is developing a 1996 record designed to get ahead of them before the
general election campaign. Polls indicate that the strategy is working.

On crime, drugs, jobs, welfare, taxes, the budget, education, immigration,
trade, and the environment - just about every issue that will come up this fall
- Clinton is trying to occupy the center while Republicans scrap with each other
on the right.

Last year, for instance, Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., tried to win support among
social conservatives by criticizing sex and violence in movies. But recently,
Clinton actually got top media executives to agree to a rating system for TV
shows and to support the V-chip system giving parents more control over the
programs their children watch.

Polemicist Pat Buchanan promises to build a fence to stop illegal immigration,
but Clinton has doubled the U.S. Border Patrol, deported 50,000 criminal aliens,
and is instituting new programs to prevent illegals from getting jobs in the
United States.

Publisher Steve Forbes talks about the growth potential of the U.S. economy, but
so does Clinton, citing his deficit cuts and lower interest rates.

And this month, aides say, Clinton will continue his strategy of outflanking the
Republicans by lauding business executives whose companies practice "corporate
responsibility" toward workers - a positive way of accomplishing what Buchanan
threatens to do with trade penalties.

Clinton is clearly taking advantage of the GOP primary season to exercise
executive authority and use his "bully pulpit" to build a record for the fall
campaign.

Most of Clinton's actions and speeches follow the centrist ideological path
traced by his political guru, Dick Morris, who is anxious to build Clinton's
support among moderate independent voters who lean Republican but can also be
attracted into the Clinton column.

Of course, Clinton has not been under attack during the primary season, and
Republican candidates have been savaging each other. That situation will change
when the Republicans finally have a nominee, but Clinton is making savvy use of
the time given him to gloss his image.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Morton Kondracke is executive editor of Roll Call, the newspaper of Capitol
Hill.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Clinton
[960307 ED 9B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              124 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 12, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT-SCHOOLING BILL FACES OPPOSITION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 102 words


A coalition of police organizations, mayors, educators and civic groups is
marshaling forces against efforts in Congress to allow states to deny free
public education to illegal immigrant children as a means of discouraging the
influx of illegal entrants.

With a bill scheduled for Senate debate next week, the lobbying is aimed at
heading off an amendment similar to one passed in the House that gives states
the option of keeping illegal immigrants out of public schools, but would not
apply to the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants. Children born in the
United States are automatically citizens.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              125 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 13, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

JOB ACTIONS SET FOR DEPUTIES IN TAPED BEATING TERMINATION, SUSPENSION PLANNED
FOR 2, PAPER SAYS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE


A sheriff's deputy involved in the videotaped clubbing of an illegal immigrant
couple has been advised that he will be fired, and his partner will be
suspended, a newspaper reported Wednesday.

Deputy Tracy Watson was given notice Monday of impending termination, and Deputy
Kurtis Franklin received notice of suspension, the Riverside Press-Enterprise
said, citing unidentified sources.

The actions against the deputies, who have been on paid leave since the April 1
incident, reportedly take effect in a week.

State law entitles the deputies to appeal to Riverside County Sheriff Larry D.
Smith and to seek arbitration.

The deputies were videotaped by TV helicopter crews covering a pursuit of a
pickup truck loaded with Mexican illegal immigrants. The chase began in south
Riverside County and ended in eastern Los Angeles County.

The immigrants scattered when the truck stopped, but the deputies caught the
couple immediately and were seen hitting them even when they were prone.

Any discipline will be appealed, said Karen Cote, Franklin's attorney.

"I don't believe Kurt did anything wrong," she said.

Watson's attorney, Michael Stone, declined comment.

If the deputies lose their appeal to Smith, they would be entitled to binding
arbitration. The deputies also may skip the appeal hearing and go straight to an
arbiter agreeable to both sides.

Watson has sued the county, claiming officials violated his civil rights in
forcing him to write a report on the beatings without letting him see an
attorney.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              126 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 8, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIP, TRAP NABBED SUSPECT IN NOTORIOUS SMUGGLING CASE AGENTS SAY MAN ADMITS ROLE
IN HIGH-SPEED CHASE

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Authorities laid a trap to catch one of the border's most wanted coyotes. They
didn't want to chase him again.

After getting an anonymous tip, federal agents nabbed Rigoberto Sosa Padilla,
who admitted driving a pickup full of illegal immigrants on a now-notorious
April 1 high-speed run from the border, authorities said.

The chase ended in an east Los Angeles County suburb, where two of the
passengers were clubbed on the roadside by Riverside County sheriff's deputies
as helicopter news cameras recorded the scene.

An attorney for one of the deputies said the arrest would bolster his defense.

Sosa Padilla, 36, was charged with smuggling people into the United States from
Mexico.

He told an immigration agent after his arrest Friday that he was to be paid $50
for each person he took to the Los Angeles area, according to court records.

An anonymous call last Wednesday gave agents their lead, according to an
affidavit by Special Agent Larry Rios of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. The coyote would be driving a 1971 white-and-green GMC pickup on his
usual run, he was told.

Teams in unmarked cars spotted the truck about 4:45 a.m. Friday in northern San
Diego County, INS officials said. Agents waited until Sosa Padilla stopped to
buy gas or drop his passengers.

"We wanted to get him out of the vehicle to eliminate the chance of a pursuit,"
said Richard Rogers, INS district director in Los Angles.

Sosa Padilla was arrested at a store in Winchester, between Temecula and Hemet
on Highway 79. About six people were in the truck cab, and another dozen were in
the back partially covered with blankets and a tarp, agents said.

The immigrants were being held by the INS.

At a U.S. District court hearing Monday, Sosa Padilla was charged with two
counts of smuggling. He has three previous convictions.

Agents believe Sosa Padilla is part of a ring that moves at least 50 people
across the border each week, Rogers said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              127 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 20, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DETENTION CENTER HIT BY UPRISING DRAWS CRITICISM

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 106 words


Prosecutors and police officials have called for the closing of the Esmor
immigration detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., with charges that it is so
poorly managed by a company hired by the federal government that it has become a
threat to public safety.

They described a teeming prison that was ill-prepared for an emergency like the
five-hour uprising early Sunday by up to 300 detained immigrants.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which oversees the
center, said they expected to reopen it in 45 days and that it would continue
under the management of Esmor Correctional Services of Melville, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Guards watch over inmates Sunday near an immigration detention center in
Elizabeth, N.J., after controlling an uprising by detainees.
[950620 FR 6A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              128 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 13, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VISA VISE LAW ON TEMPORARY FOREIGN WORKERS NEEDS AN OVERHAUL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 292 words


TUCKED in an obscure corner of the nation's complex immigration laws is the H-1B
visa. It's a double-edged sword that needs to have one edge dulled or, better
yet, to be tossed on the scrap heap.

The H-1B visa allows companies to address a temporary labor shortage with
foreign workers hired for up to six years. Then, the workers are supposed to go
home.

That allows companies such as Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems and
others to patrol the global labor market, snatch up talent, speedily obtain
visas for their human finds, then bring in the brainpower to work on new
products.

The companies say they spend millions on training, and prefer to hire Americans.
But when specially trained workers are desperately needed for specific jobs, and
Americans are not available, companies should be able to hire workers from
anywhere.

There's a catch. If a company happily has been employing Mr. Patel and Miss
Chen, why would it suddenly ship them home when the six-year visa is up? Why
would Mr. Patel and Miss Chen want to go? Small wonder that H-1B employees often
try to become permanent residents or citizens.

It would be better to abolish or sharply reduce the numbers of H-1B visas and
make permanent residency or citizenship easier to get for specialized, highly
skilled workers.

That also should help cut down on abuse. Under current law, companies that
acquire a stable of workers with active H-1B visas can farm them out as
contractors. Some companies have used contract employees to replace highly paid,
highly trained Americans with cheaper, less-well-trained foreign labor.

The H-1B visa was never meant for this use. The Department of Labor should crack
down on tech sweatshops and allow no more to start up.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              129 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MARCH 8, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HIGH-TECH HIRING VICTORY

BYLINE: Rory J. O'Connor, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 821 words


Silicon Valley businesses appear to have won a key immigration battle in
Congress, one that would allow high-tech companies to continue hiring tens of
thousands of foreign-born engineers and programmers for jobs in the United
States.

But the agreement is a blow to a number of groups representing U.S.-born
engineers and programmers, which maintain the high-tech industry uses current
immigration rules to displace their members with foreigners who are paid lower
wages.

Congressional calls to change the rules on immigration have forced legal
immigration to the top of Washington priorities for the high-tech industry this
year. Industry groups like the American Electronics Association insist member
companies can't find enough U.S.-born workers with certain crucial skills to
fill jobs in rapidly growing areas like chip design and software. The companies
claim they must hire workers for those jobs quickly, lest they lose a
competitive edge to foreign companies.

For the past several years, the companies have filled many of those vacancies
with foreigners, especially graduates of U.S. universities. In 1994, U.S.
companies hired 64,423 foreign workers in computer-related jobs, according to
Labor Department statistics, about one-quarter of all foreign workers hired that
year. The issue is particularly crucial in California, which has the double
whammy of a large immigrant population as well as being home to much of the
nation's high-tech industry.

That is why a bill covering the huge spectrum of immigration, legal and illegal,
has attracted such strong attention in the state.

Until Thursday, the U.S. Senate looked like it planned, under the measure
sponsored by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., to significantly alter the rules under
which companies can hire foreign workers.

But under pressure from business groups and California legislators, Simpson
reluctantly agreed to drop several provisions from the bill that would restrict
legal immigration. His hope is the rest of the bill can proceed more quickly
without the controversy over legal workers.

"I was working with the business community . . . to address their concerns,"
said Simpson, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration
subcommittee. "Each time we resolved one, they became more creative, more
novel."

Simpson added that the business community "distorted everything we were up to,
everything."

The provisions would have slashed the number of foreign workers who could be
hired under special work permits known as H-1B visas and would cut in half to
three years the period for which the visas would be valid. The original language
also required employers to provide proof that no U.S.-born workers were
available for a job to be filled by a foreigner; pay an H-1B worker at least 105
percent of the prevailing wage for that job; and contribute at least $10,000 per
worker to a Labor Department fund for retraining U.S.-born workers who lack
required skills.

"He offered to strike every single employment-based provision," said Brian
Raymond of the AEA. "There will be no changes to current law under the Simpson
bill."

The current law requires employers to prove there are no U.S. workers available
for some, but not all, job classifications. Workers hired under an H-1B visa
today may legally remain in the United States for six years, which is usually
enough time to acquire permanent work permits.

The Senate Judiciary Committee, which is crafting the bill, did not vote to
remove the language Thursday. But several members of the committee said last
week they wanted to see the bill divided in two, handling the issue of legal
immigration separately from that of illegal entry into the nation. That was the
strategy favored by the high-tech industry, which believed it could not defeat
changes in the H-1B program if it remained in legislation that included the
emotion-charged illegal immigration issue.

But proponents of changes in the program believe many employers use the H-1B
program to depress wages, firing full-time U.S. workers or eliminating their
contracts and replacing them with foreign workers paid below-market rates.
Groups like the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers maintain there
are thousands of unemployed, skilled U.S. programmers and engineers who could
fill many of the jobs being given to foreigners under the H-1B program.

"The IEEE-USA, with 280,000 members, is on record and testifies at every
opportunity to strengthen the barriers so work goes to U.S.-based engineers,
rather than bring in foreign nationals to do the work," said Arvid G. Larson,
with the Technology Policy Council of the IEEE in Washington.

The industry still faces a big fight in the House, which has already written an
immigration measure that contains most of the provisions Simpson has vowed to
remove in the Senate. The House is expected to debate its bill in late March.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SENATE FAILS TO CURB FOREIGN RECRUITS

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              130 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 22, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN SUSPECTED AS SMUGGLER LINKED TO ASSAULT

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 84 words


The alleged "coyote" charged in a high-speed chase April 1 in Riverside and Los
Angeles counties that ended with the videotaped beating of two immigrants
matches the description of a gunman wanted for assault in Stockton, authorities
said Tuesday. Rigoberto Sosa Padilla, 35, has been held by federal authorities
on two charges of smuggling people from Mexico. A man with the same name and
birth date is named in a San Joaquin County arrest warrant for shooting a man in
Stockton on Sept. 30, 1992.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              131 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 5, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HOUSE'S FOLLY SPAWNS FALSE HOPE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8B

LENGTH: 175 words


PITCHED BATTLES soon may erupt in Southeast Asian detention camps, courtesy of
the U.S. House of Representatives.

In June, the House passed a bill sponsored by Rep. Christopher Smith, R-N.J.,
that reignited the hope of 40,000 boat people imprisoned in Vietnam's
neighboring countries. The bill demands new asylum hearings for the detainees;
otherwise, it would cut off funding for repatriation programs run by the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Nearly all nations respect the UNHCR's
evaluation that those remaining in the camps are economic migrants, not
political escapees, and therefore ineligible for refugee status. And persecution
hasn't been documented among migrants sent home.

Smith's bill is unlikely to survive the Senate or a presidential veto. But in
the meantime, it has propped up the mirage of resettlement, entrenched
resistance to returning home and provoked pointless violence. Congress'
grandstanding only plays a cruel hoax on people whose best hope is to restart
their lives in their native lands.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS
FURTHERMORE

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              132 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               MAY 11, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL STREET EDITION

FORCED REFUGEE EXODUS CONTINUES INJURIES: ABOUT 25 REFUGEES AND SECURITY
PERSONNEL WERE HURT IN THE ESCAPE.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG


The government vowed Friday to continue sending Vietnamese boat people back to
Vietnam despite a riot and breakout from a detention center.

Anson Chan, Hong Kong's chief secretary, the highest-ranking civil servant in
the territory, described the violence as "deplorable," but he said it would not
change the government's plan to send the boat people back to Vietnam.

"We remain as determined as ever to repatriate all Vietnamese migrants," Chan
said. "This incident has not lessened our resolve."

The riot was a desperate bid to scuttle a plan to move 1,000 refugees to another
center today to prepare them for forced repatriation to Vietnam. About 200
refugees fled the center after battering down the gates. In the chaos of the
uprising, other people in the detention camp set fire to barracks and the
administration center and briefly held 15 camp officers hostage.

Tear-gas attacks

Firefighters battled blazes in the camp for most of the day, and guards and
police officers in riot gear lobbed hundreds of tear-gas shells in an effort to
retake control. By afternoon, a semblance of order had been restored, and the
hostages had been rescued from Whitehead Detention Center, where 8,600
Vietnamese were being held.

The escapees, who included women and children, fled into the surrounding hills
and towns in pre-dawn darkness. By late afternoon, the police said, 61
Vietnamese had been recaptured.

About 22 police, firefighters and camp officers and three refugees were injured,
although none seriously, the police said.

In addition to the damage to the administration center, 16 other buildings were
destroyed by fire, and more than 40 cars were burned.

More than 18,000 Vietnamese refugees, some of whom have been here for more than
eight years, are being held in what amount to prison camps in Hong Kong, waiting
to be returned to Vietnam. They are among some 35,000 boat people who remain in
Southeast Asia among the 800,000 who have fled to these countries from Vietnam,
usually in small boats, since the fall of Saigon to the communists in 1975.

Weeding-out process

Under an effort that began in 1989 to weed out economic migrants from political
refugees, virtually all of the camp residents have been interviewed by the U.N.
High Commissioner for Refugees and have been declared ineligible for asylum in
the United States or elsewhere because they do not face political persecution
upon returning home.

With the host countries anxious to close down the camps and send the residents
home, the United Nations agreed in March to end financing for the camps by June
30.

Recently, Vietnam agreed to cooperate with Hong Kong in speeding up the forced
repatriation of the boat people. However, the government's efforts were stymied
by a high-court decision last month that ruled that some refugees were being
illegally detained. The government quickly replied by moving to close the
loophole in the law cited by the court.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Another version ran on page 9A, FC edition

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              133 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 18, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DON'T TURN PAVILION INTO JUST ANOTHER MALL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 608 words


I have been tracking the recent eviction of several Pavilion tenants, and I have
some questions that have yet to be addressed, either by Pavilion General Manager
Vicki Herl or by the press.

Why would consumers go out of their way to come downtown and shop at a
Blockbuster Entertainment Center when they are so readily available in other,
suburban, locations where parking is so much easier than downtown?

Also, is it just coincidence the businesses being evicted are all minority
and/or female owned to make room for nameless, faceless corporate chain
retailers?

And, finally, if, as Ms. Herl states, the tenants have been aware of this plan
for some time, why did she feel it necessary to be escorted by a Pavilion
security guard as she served the eviction notices?

When I moved here six years ago, the Pavilion had an interesting look and feel.
Now, it's just going to become another Valley Fair, Eastridge or Oak Ridge.
Pity.

- J. Eric Payne
San Jose
FOREIGN WORKERS TARIFF DEFIES INTERNATIONAL LAW
The commission on immigration reform has recommended a $10,000 fee for each
foreign worker hired by U.S. industry. This amounts to a unilateral imposition
of tariffs on an import, which is against international law.

Susan Martin, executive director of the commission, was quoted as saying, "In
our market-driven economy, if you value something highly, you should pay for
it."'

(check) If it really is a market-driven economy, the government should not be
telling businesses who they should hire and how much they should be paid.

(check) If businesses can afford an extra $10,000, they should pay it to the
valued foreign worker and not for the government's red tape.

The Department of Labor reportedly spends $60 million a year for processing work
permits. That's a thousand unproductive bureaucratic jobs that could be
converted to productive jobs in private businesses by giving them a $60 million
tax-break.

- A.P. Vinayagam
Santa Clara
Emulate Mexico City's
quake alarm system
While conducting earthquake drills in a classroom, I have often compared them to
the "duck and cover" nuclear bomb attack drills that I participated in as a
child in the 1950s and 1960s.

How much good is this really going to do? When an earthquake strikes, the alarm
is going to come from the earthquake itself, not the principal's office.

We are not rehearsing for this disaster under realistic conditions.

The proposed earthquake alarm system, which gave people in Mexico City a
20-second warning on Thursday morning, is a system that can help protect school
children from the dangers of falling debris.

It is a system which affords the opportunity to drill under realistic
conditions.

Instead of sticking our heads in the sand, or under our desks, we need to urge
Congress to fund the proposed upgrade of the Bay Area's aging seismic network.

- Peter Romwall
San Jose
Agents stonewalled in Randy Weaver trial
Thomas Oliphant's Sept. 14 commentary, "Coddling cop killers," is disingenuous
for its lack of detail.

Never did he mention how the federal authorities stonewalled and refused to
surrender information to the court when requested during the trial of Randy
Weaver for weapons violations, murder, etc.

It is becoming clear to us who have followed the Senate hearings that the
federal agencies continue to obfuscate and lie. The jury made the correct
decision when it threw out the charges against Weaver.

We may find Weaver's political views repugnant, but that doesn't give the
federal authorities the right to send 400 agents to murder him and his family.

- Rich deSousa
Fremont

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the Editor

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              134 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 10, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A BATTLE OVER TECH JOBS EMPLOYERS WANT VISAS FOR HIGHLY SKILLED FOREIGNERS

BYLINE: Rory J. O'Connor, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 996 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Silicon Valley technology companies are quietly lobbying Congress to ease the
rules for obtaining a special kind of work visa that lets the companies quickly
hire highly skilled foreign workers - even as top Clinton administration
officials insist the rules need tightening to prevent abuse.

Companies such as chip maker Intel Corp. and workstation maker Sun Microsystems
Inc. said the temporary work documents, known as H-1B visas, are vital to
filling a small number of key technical jobs.

They are jobs, the companies said, that have to be filled immediately if they
are to stay competitive - and because of the pace of change in technology, are
jobs for which properly trained U.S. citizens can't immediately be found.

But groups representing technical workers, along with the Labor Department, said
the program has been used as a crutch to sidestep training workers that could be
qualified to handle the jobs. The result has been to push U.S. workers out of
some of the best jobs in the country, to be replaced by foreigners working for
far less money.

Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich also has criticized companies for using the H-1B
program, enacted to allow companies to hire workers temporarily, as a "way
station" to keep the workers employed until they obtain permanent work permits.

Both sides are hoping to influence the outcome of parts of two larger
immigration bills pending in Congress. The House Judiciary Committee will debate
its version of the bill this week, and neither side is certain of the outcome.

Technology companies want Congress to force the Labor Department to change
regulations, enacted in January, that require close monitoring of an immigrant
worker's activities along with repeated written notification of the worker's
status and salary to his or her colleagues.

It might seem an unusual issue for controversy, considering the other issues
involved in the volatile debate over immigration reform. The H-1B program,
enacted in 1990, is limited to 65,000 workers a year in the private sector,
about 0.1 percent of the national workforce. Each applicant must be sponsored by
the company that will employ them, and the company must state in advance the
period - no more than six years - the visa will be valid. And the program only
covers a limited range of professional occupations.

It's just that in Silicon Valley, those are some of the most common and highest
paid occupations: programmers, engineers, chip designers - jobs that companies
claim are nearly impossible to fill but that opponents claim could easily be
filled with both recent college graduates and an army of experienced workers
laid off because of cutbacks at defense contractors.

At its heart, it is a microcosm of the larger debate over immigration: whether
the rush of immigrants to the United States is costing American workers their
jobs.

Opponents, such as the American Engineering Association, contend the H-1B
program does just that. They point to a number of "job shops" that use the
program to hire hundreds of foreign high-tech workers and offer their services
under contract to large companies. Often, the foreign workers are paid much less
than the U.S. workers they replace.

"What's starting to happen is that companies are hiring hundreds of H-1Bs, and
contracting with companies who are firing their American workers and hiring the
foreign workers," said Edith Holliman, an attorney for the American Engineering
Association. "We have to stop the 'body shop' behavior."

Reich expressed some of the same concerns in testimony before the Senate two
weeks ago. "It has become increasingly evident that the H-1B program is being
utilized by some as the basis for building businesses which are dependent on the
labors of foreign workers, in some cases in unfair competition with U.S.
workers, and those U.S. businesses that employ mostly domestic workers."

Both sides agree the program, enacted in 1990, has spawned such abuses. But some
of Silicon Valley's largest high-tech companies say they need the H-1B program
and shouldn't suffer because of the abuses of other employers.

"One of the things we're arguing for is there should be tougher employer
sanctions," said Eva Jack, human resources policy manager for Santa Clara-based
Intel. The company employs about 270 H-1B workers out of a U.S. workforce of
27,000 people. That's a fairly typical percentage for large companies; Sun
employs about 170 workers out of a U.S. pool of 18,000 workers, and
Hewlett-Packard about 560 people out of a U.S. workforce of 56,000.

None of Intel's 270 workers could have been hired from the domestic workforce,
even from among the highly experienced pool of former defense workers, Jack
said. That's because technologies become obsolete so quickly that it is often
only recent university graduates who possess the skills industry needs.

"We can't hire people straight out of (defense jobs) and into a company like
Intel," she said. "We won't see the results of their retraining programs for
another year or two years. In the high-tech industry, where products and
technology change so often, we have to hire people quickly. There's this
assumption that there are all these engineers out there that don't have jobs.
But most of them aren't qualified."

But Reich testified that companies are using the program as an excuse to avoid
training U.S. workers for the jobs, instead of plugging an emergency gap until a
trained U.S. worker is available.

And the companies acknowledge they rarely replace an H-1B worker with a U.S.
citizen.

"From the high-tech perspective, once you have a product developed (by an H-1B
worker), you would want to keep them on permanently," said Christine Owens, a
lobbyist for Sun.

That doesn't mean, however, that companies aren't training or hiring U.S.
workers. Companies insist they spend millions to train their own workers and
laid-off defense workers and to invest in university and public education.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              135 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 13, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

A BOY'S VIEW OF LIFE IN A FAMILY OF MIGRANT WORKERS

BYLINE: Stephen Whitty, Mercury News Film Writer

SECTION: EYE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 730 words


WHEN JOHN Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath" first told middle America about the
plight of migrant workers, people hung their heads in shame.

Now, it seems, they're more likely to turn away their faces.

But although America's sense of outrage may have faded - or been obscured by
other issues, such as immigration - the lives of migrant workers haven't changed
much since the Depression. Parents work hard, children miss school, families are
uprooted. And their stories are rarely told.

" . . . and the earth did not swallow him," however, manages to tell a few.

A small, deeply felt version of Tomas Rivera's 1971 novel, " . . . y no se lo
trago tierra," it's the semi-autobiographical story of 12-year-old Marcos
Gonzales, a quiet child growing up in early '50s America. He'd like to settle
in, stay in school, just be a kid.

But to survive, his parents have to follow the crops. In the fall and winter,
they work in the orange groves of Crystal City, Texas. In the spring and summer,
they head north for the fields of Minnesota and South Dakota, where an adult can
make up to $15 a day picking sugar beets.

Once a family's paid for their trip, however, and their food, and their
expenses, they're already in debt. And once they're at the farm, hundreds of
miles from home, they discover that the $15 salary depends on a few ifs.

They'll get their money, all right, the farmer tells them. But if it doesn't
rain. If they don't get sick. If they get the whole crop in.

Somehow, by the time they're home in September, there isn't very much money
left. There isn't much left at all, except a chance to go back to work in the
orange groves, back to hoping that next summer will be different.

It's a brutal life, but what Marcos eventually rebels against isn't the life
itself. It's his parents' acceptance of it, and his mother's blind religious
faith.

Loss of faith

To her, religion is a comfort and a constant companion. To her son, though, it
just seems like one more lie, one more promise as empty as that $15 a day. When
Marcos turns to the church for help, he finds the priest has used the
parishioner's donations to visit cathedrals in Spain. When Marcos finally calls
on the devil, and curses God, nothing happens. The devil does not come. The
earth, the boy notes with satisfaction, does not swallow him.

Marcos decides that he has to rely on something besides religion. So he finds
his faith in memory, and eventually in fiction.

" . . . and the earth did not swallow him" is the story of the birth of an
author, but it's also the story of a family, and a people, told with affection
and honesty.

Writer and director Severo Perez was a playwright-in-residence at Luis Valdez's
El Teatro Campesino for a time; most of the performers have worked together
before, in Valdez's "Zoot Suit." They work together beautifully here.

Marco Rodriguez, who plays Marcos' father, Joaquin, has courage and dignity.
It's easy to see why his family adores him, and how proud he is of them. When he
rises up at the end to confront a petty thief who has cheated them, it's hard
not to think of "The Bicycle Thief" - the emotion is that strong.

Rose Portillo is just as strong as his wife, Florentina, with her midnight
prayers and fierce protection of her family. And the actors who play their
friends and fellow laborers add music and joy and tragedy.

Dialogue problems

Jose Alcala is good in the main role of Marcos, although he has some problems
with the dialogue. More problematic are Sam Vlahos and Angie Torres as Don Cleto
and Dona Coquita, the villains of the story. Their performances are fine, but
Torres seems miscast as an appealing whore - you'd have to go back to mid-period
Fellini to find one quite so unappealing - and their murderous treachery seems
like something out of Hansel and Gretel.

But then again, this is a story as seen through the eyes of a child, full of
monsters and bullies and sudden, shocking insights. Things are naturally drawn
with broad strokes.

Yet perhaps Marcos' most important realization is the quiet one that comes when
he attends a funeral, a service held with depressing regularity among the
farmworkers. "I could hear the people buried there, saying 'Don't forget me,' "
he tells us in a voice-over. " 'Don't forget me.' "

Rivera's novel, and this movie, is evidence that he never did.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ...and the earth did not swallow him
(star)(star)(star) 1: 2
Rated: No MPAA rating (but might be PG-13 for brief nudity, violence, adult
situations).
Cast: Jose Alcala, Rose Portillo, Marco Rodriguez
Director: Writer: Severo Perez
Running time: 1 hour, 39 minutesMovies
REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Jose Alcala as Marcos in " . . . and the earth did not swallow him."
[951013 EY 8]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              136 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 4, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

HEALTH CARE MEETING WORKSHOPS: PROVIDERS SHARE TIPS ON FUNDING, SERVICES FOR
MIGRANT WORKERS.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 593 words


Ignored by a majority of health care providers, many of the estimated 1.5
million farm and migrant workers in California turn to doctors only when faced
with life-threatening emergencies.

As a result, illnesses such as diabetes and hepatitis, which can be treated
successfully with early diagnosis, often are not caught in time to save the
patient.

The mounting human and financial toll of such loopholes in health care were
tackled at a three-day conference which ended Sunday at the San Jose Hilton and
Towers.

About 200 health care workers from Midwestern and Western states participated in
dozens of workshops on how to fund their programs, win the trust of migrant
workers and track their patients when they move from state to state.

The fifth annual conference, which cost $55,000, was organized by Allen Apodaca,
62, of Seattle, a son of Mexican migrant workers who once worked the fields
himself and went on to become a health educator.

"I've never forgotten what migrant workers call las lagrimas de sangre (the
tears of blood)," he said. "It's only through education and networking that
we're going to spare other migrant workers from suffering without proper medical
care."

One of the most popular panelists Sunday was Guillermo Vicuna, a Stockton
dentist who since 1987 has run a privately-funded health fair for poor Hispanics
in the San Joaquin Valley. He urged conference participants - alarmed by threats
of government budget cuts - to replace lost funds with private donations and
volunteers.

He said the Su Salud health fair, which attracted 18,000 participants this year,
is made possible by thousands of dollars in grants and hundreds of volunteer
hours.

"I know right now it looks like this state only wants to take the work of
migrant workers and not give anything in return," he said. "But there are a lot
of people out there who care about these issues and will help you succeed."

Yolanda Cervantes, a nurse educator from Fresno, attended a workshop on how to
make farmworkers aware that some folk remedies, paint and metal pans contain
lead which could poison them and their children. She planned to use the coloring
books and Spanish-language stories provided at the workshop to inform her
clients.

"A lot of the draw for me is in being able to hear the experiences of others who
are doing what I'm doing," she said.

Not all the workshops were health related. Practical answers on running the
office and hiring strong staffers were just as important to conference
participants.

There was a workshop on recruiting a strong board of directors and another on
collecting health data.

Dr. Tina Castanares told data workshop participants that a lot of their success
depended on having the right computer system and the right person to run it.

"You'll find that many people who know computers don't necessarily know health
issues, and the other way around," she said. "The key is to make sure you know
what you want out of the computer and then go out there and find a (computer
company) that will give you what you want."

Apodaca said this year he noticed an increase in the number of health centers
doing outreach to migrant workers and farmworkers. He said that may be a result
of growing awareness of migrant health issues among medical professionals.

"People are realizing that this is a group that has been ignored for too long,"
he said. "The bottom line is that if we don't pay for preventive health care for
them up front, the public will have to pay much more later at the emergency
room."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              137 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  June 20, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMERICAN SUCCESS STORY MAY BE LIE;
IMMIGRANT BUSINESSMAN ALLEGEDLY DEALT IN STOLEN COMPUTER COMPONENTS

BYLINE: JACK FISCHER, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1224 words


By all signs, Lawrence Wong was a classic Silicon Valley success story: a
Vietnamese refugee who immigrated to the Bay Area and, through hard work and
business savvy, built a computer retailing business with more than $3.5 million
in annual sales.

Wong's Prestige Computer became a fixture along Stevens Creek Boulevard, where
it has counted FMC Corp., San Jose State University and Paramount's Great
America among its customers.

But behind that public facade, the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office say,
another Prestige Computer lurked. The FBI sting that nabbed Wong for allegedly
trading in stolen computer parts came as no surprise to local investigators, who
say it was the final act in a years-long cat-and-mouse game in which the wily
businessman always had eluded their net.

If the federal government is right, the business once described as among the
South Bay's top 20 computer retailers also may have been the Bay Area's largest
trafficker in stolen computer components.

After an elaborate nine-month undercover operation that included two stings and
installation of clandestine video cameras outside Prestige's doors, the federal
government this month indicted Wong and 15 others, accusing them of buying and
selling stolen computer components and a host of other crimes.

It was in the course of an unrelated investigation that the FBI came upon Wong,
inadvertently leading the bureau into what Deputy District Attorney Frank Berry
described as a "nest of criminality" that allegedly ranged from an attempted
invasion robbery of a computer chip warehouse to receiving stolen computer chips
to a $50,000-a-day bookmaking operation.

The federal indictments come at a time when the theft of high-tech components is
at an all-time high in the South Bay. Local police and prosecutors say the
robberies are occurring at a rate of two or three a week and cost South Bay
companies an estimated $200,000 to $300,000 a week in stolen components.

Wong, who recently was released from Santa Clara County Jail on $400,000 bail,
has declined to talk to the Mercury News.

His attorney, Evans Prieston, described his client as "a guy who's never done a
thing wrong before the government came after him." In a court hearing, Prieston
portrayed Wong as the unwitting victim of employees involved in criminal
activities.

As his attorney describes it, Wong's transformation from son of a Saigon leather
tanner to Silicon Valley businessman is a classic story of the American dream.

Fled from Vietnam

Wong, 38, whose Vietnamese name is Quoc Huynh, escaped from Vietnam in a fishing
boat in 1975, on the eve of Saigon's fall. By 1978, after more than a year in a
Thai refugee camp, he had made his way to Oakland, where he moved in with a
relative, Prieston said.

After working as a technician for a high-tech company, Wong struck out on his
own, building computers in his brother-in-law's garage and selling them at
computer swap meets at the Cow Palace.

"He was an extremely industrious man," Prieston said.

By 1986, with the personal computer clone trade in full swing, Wong's swap meet
trade had grown into Prestige Computer.

Local investigators who specialize in high-tech crime said last week that
scarcely more than a year passed before Wong and Prestige came into their
sights.

"I can tell you that Larry Wong goes back a long, long way," Santa Clara police
Sgt. Mark Kerby said. "He turned up all around a lot of cases, but we were never
able to file (charges) on him."

Wong's attorney said that was because his client hadn't committed any crimes.

Investigators say it's a reflection of the difficulty of catching those who
steal components. The crooks, they say, insulate themselves from the crime by
hiring others to do the dirty work, then say they don't know the goods are
stolen. Frequently, the stolen components, which typically do not have serial
numbers, change hands many times within hours, making guilt difficult to prove
without painstaking undercover work.

Failed bust

For the San Jose police high-tech unit, the low point in its pursuit of Wong
came in 1988 when a sting netted two buyers of computer chips that undercover
agents pretended were stolen. The buyers refused to testify against Wong, whom
investigators say was behind the purchase, according to San Jose police
investigators.

Later, in court, Wong said he was unaware the chips he was to buy were stolen
and that San Jose police were obliged to return to him $89,000 used in the deal,
said Kevin Fairchild, a local private investigator who worked with the FBI on
the Wong case.

At the time, according to San Jose police investigator Kevin Fagalde, a member
of the high-tech crime unit, Wong told police some of the money also belonged to
Michael Nguyen, a long-time associate of Wong's who runs a separate company out
of Prestige's offices.

Nguyen, who twice has been convicted of receiving stolen computer components,
was among those charged in the current FBI case. He is being held in Santa Clara
County Jail without bail.

"The same guys keep popping up," Fagalde said. "Our feeling at that time was
that this was the beginning of a network or organization to traffic in stolen
components. But back in that era, a lot of people weren't ready to take the
crime seriously."

But even then, Fagalde said, stories had begun to surface that led local
investigators to think Wong was a bigger player in stolen computer components
than they previously realized. One story shared among local law enforcement
agencies came from agents of the U.S. Customs Service in Southern California.

A Long Beach businessman was so angry at Wong that he complained to U.S. Customs
officials that he had paid the man he knew as "The Quoc" $10,000 to supply him
with stolen computer components he never received.

Fagalde said the businessman came north to get his money back. "The Quoc met him
and had two guys with assault rifles or semi-automatic weapons standing guard by
him," the detective said. "Supposedly he said, 'Thank you for your $10,000. I'll
let you leave with your life.' "

Wong's attorney said the allegations were "hogwash and conjecture on the
government's part."

Legitimate success

While rumors of illegal activities by Prestige swirled in the law enforcement
community, the company's legitimate reputation continued to grow.

The May 1992 issue of Computer Currents magazine featured an interview with
Prestige's store manager, Anthony Sang, in its Dealer's Spotlight feature. Sang
said Prestige had distinguished itself by being "very aware of market demand at
the component level."

He went on to characterize the Prestige business philosophy. "For us, the
primary thing is honesty," said Sang, now the company's treasurer and one of
those indicted this month.

But as the business's reputation grew, so did the activities of what Assistant
U.S. Attorney Stephen Gruel described as Prestige's "alter ego."

In the past 18 months, Wong's name surfaced in connection with four police
investigations, said FBI Special Agent Mike Sweeney, who has directed much of
the federal government's case against Wong and Prestige. In each instance,
Sweeney said, Prestige or its employees were named by someone in the
investigation as supplying or buying stolen computer components.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Wong
[950620 FR 1A 2; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              138 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                June 20, 1995 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

AFGHAN FAMILY GETS SUPPORT TRUST FUND: FREMONT COUPLE COMES TO THE AID OF JAILED
IMMIGRANTS FACING DEPORTATION TO AFGHANISTAN.

BYLINE: SANDY KLEFFMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 550 words


A Fremont couple, moved by the plight of an Afghan family that is desperately
trying to avoid deportation, set up a trust fund for the family Monday and has
offered to post bail to get the father and daughter out of jail.

Shamim and Terry Ritter, who had never met the Mayer family, canceled business
meetings and spent the better part of the day trying to help the Fremont family
any way they could.

"I've never done anything like this in my life," Terry Ritter said. "But God has
watched over us - we're really rather fortunate. I would like to help them. I'm
hoping this gets the attention of someone to at least look at this case."

The Ritters learned of the Mayers' struggles through a story in the Mercury News
on Sunday. It told how family members fear they could be murdered or the girls
kidnapped or raped if forced to return to the war-torn country.

Yacob Mayer and his 29-year-old daughter, Zeada, were abruptly arrested June 8
and jailed after U.S. Immigration Judge Lawrence DiCostanzo denied the family's
request for political asylum. Court hearings proved that Mayer lied on his
application by failing to reveal the family lived in Germany for five years
before arriving in the United States.

To his disappointment, Ritter discovered Monday that he would not be able to get
Mayer and Zeada released from Santa Rita Jail because they are being held
without bail.

But Fremont attorney Nadia Farah filed an appeal of the judge's decision Monday.
That should halt deportation proceedings and provide the family with an
additional few weeks or months until the case is heard by the Board of
Immigration Appeals.

In the meantime, Farah said, she will file a motion to see if she can get bail
set.

Other readers also called the Mercury News searching for ways to help the
family.

"I've been thinking about them all weekend," said San Jose resident Cindy
Anderson. "I think it's horrible that all these kids have wonderful grades and
they've worked so hard and haven't been on welfare and now they're going to
throw them out. It just makes me furious."

The Ritters say they decided to help the family because of "the desire and
determination of the children" - as evidenced by the strong academic records of
the three youngest daughters, who succeeded in school even though they have been
in this country just two years and are still learning English.

Fahima Mayer was one of the top four students this year at Walters Junior High
in Fremont. Nasima had a 3.9 grade-point average and Wasima a 3.6 GPA at Kennedy
High.

Besides the four daughters, the Mayers have a 35-year-old son, Aref, who is
severely mentally disabled.

Terry Ritter is an American, but his wife, Shamim, moved here from Afghanistan
in 1978. He owns a medical products company in Fremont, and she owns a mortgage
banking company. Shamim said she is particularly worried about the women in the
Mayer family.

"There is no law in that country," she said. "The girls will be in danger."

Amnesty International reports that armed groups have massacred defenseless women
in their homes in Afghanistan or brutally beaten and raped them. It says scores
of young women have been abducted and raped, taken as wives by commanders or
sold into prostitution. Some committed suicide to avoid such a fate.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The Ritters have established the Mayer Family Trust Fund at Commercial Bank of
Fremont, 39510 Paseo Padre Parkway, Fremont, Calif. 94538. They say the money
will be used to help pay the family's legal bills and living expenses such as
rent, food and gasoline.Shorter version ran on 1B of the Morning Final edition

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Aref Mayer
[950620 LO 1B AL 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                June 20, 1995 Tuesday ALAMEDA COUNTY/AM EDITION

JACKSON: WILSON'S IMMIGRATION POLICY MAY BACKFIRE

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 185 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND


Jesse Jackson, on a two-day visit to the Bay Area, said Monday he has not
decided whether he will run for president but said Gov. Pete Wilson's
anti-immigration stance could backfire.

"If he (Wilson) represents the leadership, then we are in a strong position,"
said Jackson, referring to Wilson's admission last month that he and his wife
once employed an illegal immigrant and failed to pay her Social Security taxes.

Jackson, who met Monday with Oakland Mayor Elihu Harris and city employee union
leaders to help mediate a labor dispute, is scheduled to appear at noon today in
San Jose at a reception with the Santa Clara County Black Chamber of Commerce.
The reception will be at the Fairmont Hotel, 170 S. Market St.

He is also scheduled to speak at San Francisco State University at 7 o'clock
tonight.

Oakland city employees are protesting a proposed five-day, unpaid furlough
between Christmas and New Year's Day, saying it will amount to a 2 percent pay
cut. City officials have proposed an end-of-the-year shutdown of all but police
and fire services to help balance the city's budget.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   July 4, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LIMITS FAN FEARS FOR FAMILIES

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1543 words


Former Texas Rep. Barbara Jordan calls it urgently needed reform. The chairmen
of the U.S. Senate and House immigration panels agree. So does President
Clinton.

But to Diem Ton of Sunnyvale and Marciano Ramirez of Santa Cruz, looming
legislation aimed at restricting legal immigration means just one thing:

They may never live in the same country as their daughters again.

"This is a horrible bill," said Ton, who was forced to leave his daughter behind
in Vietnam five years ago. "If I had three or four children, I won't care that
much. But I have only one child, and I miss her very, very much."

Since Jordan's bipartisan immigration commission recommended last month that
legal immigration be cut by a third, legislative proposals along those lines
have picked up support in Congress and from the White House. Bills in the House
and Senate will be debated in the next few months.

One of the most controversial provisions of the legislation would prevent the
adult children of naturalized citizens and legal permanent residents from
immigrating. Brothers and sisters would also be excluded - and it would become
harder for U.S. citizens to bring over their parents.

Politicians and a new breed of immigration restrictionists hail the proposals as
the beginning of a return to a sane policy that will allow the country to stop
"chain migration" from the Third World.

But other politicians and immigrant advocates have attacked the proposed bills
as an assault on "family values."

To be sure, the debate over legal immigration this summer will be as complicated
as it is controversial. It'll be full of sound and fury, signifying nothing less
than a re-examination of a cherished American tradition.

Here are three stories that hint of the debate to come:

'Another Asian
Exclusion Act'

Diem Ton came to the United States from Ho Chi Minh City, the former Saigon, in
May 1990.

Once a captain in the South Vietnamese army, he was tossed into a forced-labor
camp for seven years after the North Vietnamese won the war.

One of the most painful moments of his life came eight years after he got out of
the camp. Several days before he was set to come to the United States under a
humanitarian program for political prisoners, his daughter, Mong Quynh, married
her high school sweetheart.

Under the rules of the program, that meant she was no longer able to emigrate
with her parents. Ton and his wife, Mong Thi, left without their only child.

Current immigration rules say that 28-year-old Quynh, her husband and 4-year-old
son (whom Ton has never seen) could come to the United States once Ton becomes a
citizen.

On the first day they were eligible - exactly five years after they arrived in
the United States - Ton and his wife applied for citizenship. But immigration
officials in San Jose said they were backlogged, so the couple must wait at
least 10 months for an interview.

By the time Ton takes his citizenship oath and can apply to sponsor his
daughter's family, it may be too late - if the new rules are enacted this year.

Ton, 55, said he loves the United States but can't understand why Congress would
do that. He sees it as "discrimination against Asians."

Indeed, Asian-American groups have thus far mounted the fiercest opposition to
the immigration legislation. They point out that roughly half of all people
waiting for visas are from Asia. In the case of the Philippines, 93 percent of
the applicants waiting overseas to emigrate would become ineligible.

"It's basically another Asian Exclusion Act," said Deeana Jang, director of the
Asian Law Caucus' immigration rights project in San Francisco.

Ton said his daughter and her family wouldn't be a burden to U.S. taxpayers. "I
can help them with monthly support," he said. "They speak English very well, and
they work hard. I know they can get good jobs."

Ton is a caseworker for Sunnyvale Community Services, helping people with
emergencies ranging from evictions to utility disconnections. His wife is
studying child development at De Anza College in Cupertino.

"You could not have a more dedicated, hard-working employee," said Nancy Tivol,
executive director of the non-profit organization. "He's doing everything that
can be expected of an immigrant - working hard and helping other people."

'Not an entitlement'

As a youth, Norm Matloff lived in a Hispanic neighborhood of East Los Angeles.
The son of a Lithuanian immigrant, he considers himself a liberal Democrat and
booster of minority causes.

The 46-year-old Walnut Creek resident is former chairman of the affirmative
action committee at the University of California, Davis where he is a professor
of computer science. His wife is an immigrant from Hong Kong who works as a
software engineer in Sunnyvale.

But Matloff, who has researched immigration trends and testified before
Congress, believes current immigration levels are much too high. He argues that
recent immigration has hurt black, Hispanic and Asian communities by lowering
wages and making jobs - both low-skilled and high-skilled - harder to find.
Immigration has also reduced the quality of education and housing and resulted
in an increased exposure to tuberculosis and other diseases, he said.

Although individual cases can be poignant, Matloff said, they are in many cases
the exception to the rule.

Most often, he said, family reunification visas are simply a "route to
immigration" rather than a way of reuniting with loved ones. He cites numerous
examples of Chinese who bring over their brothers and sisters - but don't
maintain close ties with them.

Matloff is no armchair expert. He speaks both Mandarin and Cantonese and has
been immersed in the Chinese immigrant community for two decades.

In 1993, he finished a groundbreaking study that showed that despite their
"model minority" image and political conservatism, 55 percent of elderly Chinese
were on welfare, mostly Supplemental Security Income. Among elderly Vietnamese
immigrants, the figure was 74 percent, compared to 21 percent of Mexican
immigrants and 9 percent of native-born elderly.

News of the "free money," Matloff said, has spread quickly in Chinese
communities overseas. A popular book called "What You Need to Know About Life in
America" - sold in Taiwan and Hong Kong - includes a 36-page guide to SSI and
other welfare programs, he said.

Matloff's findings have provided ammunition for an increasingly vocal band of
immigration restrictionists who say the country has to begin yanking its welcome
mat - and individuals will have to suffer the consequences in the national
interest.

"It sounds harsh, but we have no choice," said Yeh Ling-Ling of Orinda, an
immigrant from Vietnam herself who works for the Carrying Capacity Network, a
group that argues immigrants are taxing the environment, schools and
neighborhoods. "Immigration is not an entitlement. I never felt that I was
entitled to come here."

Matloff's congressional testimony was instrumental in convincing the House in
May to vote to ban most welfare payments to non-citizens. But that, Matloff
said, won't eliminate the problem, since many immigrants will simply become
citizens to keep their checks coming.

"The only option left is to cut back on the number of people coming," he said.

Impact on Hispanics

Marciano Ramirez first came to the United States 35 years ago as a bracero from
Mexico. He worked in tomato, grape and carrot fields in Texas and California.

After the agriculture guest-worker program ended in 1964, he began slipping
across the border to work. It was a time when most Californians winked at the
practice - and crossing the international border was not much harder than
driving across town.

Eventually, most of Ramirez's family - his wife and seven of his eight children
- came to live in California. Thanks to the 1986 amnesty law, all are now legal
residents.

But his daughter Raquel, now 25, stayed behind in Oaxaca to study pharmacy at
college.

Ramirez, a Santa Cruz gardener, applied in 1991 for permission for his daughter
to immigrate. But after she turned 21 the next year, Raquel was moved into a
different immigration category. The result, said Jane Yokoyama of the Santa Cruz
County Immigration Project, is that Raquel won't be eligible to come to the
United States for at least 18 months.

About four of 10 people who would be adversely affected by the proposed new
rules are Hispanic, say immigration rights advocates, who note that many of the
people who would be dropped from immigration lists have been waiting for more
than a decade to come to the United States.

"It's very unfair to change the rules in the middle of the game," said Yokoyama.

Recently, the 54-year-old Ramirez learned that his daughter was depressed and
suffering from a kidney ailment. Then he received the news that she might not be
able to come at all because of the pending bill in Congress. He wept.

"It is very hard for me," Ramirez said. "This is all very bad news. I don't know
why the government is making these changes.

"All I want is for all my kids to be in this country because I want them to be
something better than me. To study English. To have opportunity. They can do it
here. It's not like in Mexico."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: HIGHLIGHTS OF HOUSE BILL
At least two bills cutting legal immigration will be debated in Congress this
year. The House version, sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, was introduced
two weeks ago. The Senate bill is expected to be introduced within the next few
weeks by Alan Simpson, R-Wyoming. Some highlights of the House bill:
* Reduces the number of legal immigrants from roughly 850,000 per year now to
585,000 annually for the next five years.
* Eliminates family-reunification visas for siblings of U.S. citizens, adult
children of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents.
* Speeds up the process for legal permanent residents who want to bring spouses
and children under 21 to the United States.
* Slows down the process for U.S. citizens who want to bring their parents here.

* Gives greater preferences to applicants with job skills that meet the needs of
the U.S. workforce.
* Eliminates the annual immigration lottery granting 55,000 visas.
* Cuts the number of refugees and people receiving political asylum to 70,000
per year, down from about 125,000.
Source: Office of Rep. Lamar Smith

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM - MERCURY NEWS
From left, Marciano Ramirez, his wife, Valentina Gomez and their children in
Santa Cruz. One daughter in Mexico may be blocked from immigration.
[950704 FR 22A 1; color]
PHOTO: RICHARD WISDOM - MERCURY NEWS
Diem Ton and wife Mong Thi look at photos of their daughter's family members who
are in Vietnam.
[950704 FR 1A 4; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 6, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FEWER SKILLED FOREIGNERS SEEKING U.S. CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Christopher Marquis, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 11A

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States is the land of opportunity for fewer and fewer foreigners
whose special skills give them the right to immigrate here, U.S. officials say.

Newly released Justice Department statistics show that highly educated
professionals from other nations are spurning the chance to apply for U.S.
citizenship under immigration preferences for workers in key fields.

In the past fiscal year, the number of immigrants legally admitted to this
country for employment reasons plunged by 16 percent, mostly because eligible
professionals failed to apply, officials said.

Since 1993, the number of immigrant visas granted to scientists, academics,
managers and others with special training fell to 123,291 from 147,012, said the
Justice Department, blaming the shortfall on a dearth of applicants.

"There were fewer takers," said Greg Gagne, an Immigration and Naturalization
Service official.

Labor experts said the drop in applications from professionals appears to
reflect a decline in the number of high-wage jobs in the U.S. economy, even as
demand for low-wage workers remains high.

The new figures provide the first snapshot in four years of true U.S. demand for
professionals with advanced degrees or special skills after statistical
distortions caused by the U.S. decision to absorb tens of thousands of Chinese
students and temporary residents.

Nearly 60 percent of all immigrants admitted under employment-based preferences
were born in Asia. After China, the highest number of visa recipients came from
the Philippines, India, Canada and Britain. Preferred fields included
engineering, health care and business management.

Meanwhile, demand for U.S. visas in other categories - including those seeking
to come to the United States for family reunification purposes - remained
strong. Immigration officials continue to wrestle with a backlog of as many as 3
million applications for U.S. immigration.

Immigration officials plan to transfer slots unclaimed for employment purposes
to benefit those in other categories. The Immigration Act of 1990 gives the
government such flexibility, provided overall totals remain beneath a cap of
700,000 legal immigrants for the year, excluding refugee and asylum claims.

Congress is considering recommendations to slash that cap of legal immigrants by
as much as one-third. A federal advisory panel on immigration headed by former
Rep. Barbara Jordan of Texas has called for similar reductions.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO:
Ex-Rep. Jordan's advisory panel wants to cut the federal cap of 700,000 legal
immigrants per year.
[950706 FR 11A]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              142 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  July 18, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILINGUAL RESULTS BOARD OF EDUCATION'S VAGUE GUIDELINES ARE WORRISOME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 366 words


THE state Board of Education has eased the rules on bilingual education but has
failed to explain how children of limited-English ability will avoid being left
behind.

When it was done right, bilingual education that used native language
instruction was the best method for keeping students up to speed academically
while they learned English. But there weren't enough bilingual teachers, even in
Spanish, to go around.

The problem isn't that immigrant students are failing to learn English.
Bilingual ed is one reason today's immigrants are learning English faster than
any immigrant wave in U.S. history.

Numbers explain the problem. After two decades of bilingual ed, California needs
20,000 new bilingual teachers just to meet current demand. Locally, the
Franklin-McKinley School District in San Jose has only half the number of
Spanish-speaking and one-fourth the number of Vietnamese-speaking teachers it
needs.

Local schools know their bilingual abilities better than Sacramento and
Washington, so we welcome the new policy shift to local control. But it's also
true that some local school boards in
high-immigration regions, out of political or cultural motives, are hostile to
the concept of helping non-English-speaking students. While feinting concern for
immigrant students, they argue that bilingual ed promotes social divisions and
other nonsense.

Local control should come with accountability. Yet when it came to measuring the
performance of English-learners, the state Board of Education backed off. It
said districts should show results, but it failed to explain what it meant.
Improved reading scores? Graduation rates?

It looks as if state schools Superintendent Delaine Eastin will have to set the
standards and enforce them. That won't be easy, given the anti-immigrant tone of
California politics and the education board's reluctance to punish districts.

The good news is that there is still room for bilingual education that works.

The new rules at best could result in creative and successful programs. School
districts that appreciate and deliver bilingual education with whatever means
they can muster should be rewarded for a job well done.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              143 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 5, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHARGE FOR VISITORS FROM MEXICO, CANADA

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 141 words


Foreign nationals who require U.S. documents to cross into the United States by
land or water from Canada and Mexico soon will have to pay a document fee, the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service announced Friday. Currently, the INS
isn't charging fees for the issuance of border crossing cards and other travel
documents. But as of Oct. 9, Mexicans seeking border visitor permits will have
to pay $4 per visitor or $8 per family. The permits allow holders visits of up
to 30 days as well as permission to travel more than 25 miles beyond the border
within the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas. The INS
said the fees will affect only a small percentage of total crossers. Of the 205
million annual border crossings by Mexican visitors, 3.5 million people will be
affected, the agency estimated.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              144 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 10, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WILSON CAMPAIGN WILL BE KICKED OFF IN NEW YORK CITY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 138 words


Gov. Pete Wilson, who won re-election last year by denouncing illegal
immigrants, will kick off his Republican presidential campaign against a
backdrop that welcomes foreigners to the United States, sources said Wednesday
in Sacramento. He plans to officially enter the race in New York City, with the
Statue of Liberty as a background. The monument around the statue includes Ellis
Island, point of entry for millions of legal immigrants.

Wilson will follow the announcement with a nationwide tour ending a few days
later in San Diego, where he served as mayor in the 1970s. Wilson, 61, has
announced several times already that he is running for president, although aides
say those statements were not "formal announcements." He has been campaigning
for months in New Hampshire, Iowa and other early primary states.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              145 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 11, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO BASHING DRAWS FIRE FROM TEXAS LEADER

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 103 words


Texas Gov. George W. Bush broke ranks Thursday with some of his fellow
Republicans when he warned that any candidates who use Mexico-bashing or
immigrant-bashing in their campaigns will "pay the price." Bush, the son of
former President George Bush, said he would speak out against those attempting
to exploit the immigration issue for political gain.

Several Republican presidential candidates have taken tough stands against
illegal immigrants, most of whom come from Mexico, in an attempt to whip up
support for their campaigns. Their harsh rhetoric has put a chill in U.S.-Mexico
relations, Bush said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: National News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              146 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 14, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CROSSING A CULTURAL BORDER COMEDIAN DRAMATIZES HIS AMERICANIZATION

BYLINE: JUDITH GREEN, MERCURY NEWS THEATER WRITER

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 536 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


TONY Morewood is a 40-year-old English comedian who fell in love with American
pop culture. "How to Become an American," at the Marsh, is his journey of
immigration and naturalization.

If he stuck with that idea, the piece would be a lot better and probably 30
minutes shorter. Unfortunately, he had a permissive director (Don McCunn) who
functioned neither as editor nor acting coach.

Morewood actually gets to the United States in the last 15 minutes or so of an
almost two-hour show. The rest of it is about his Americanization, starting with
his longing for a genuine Western cowboy costume that he saw in the Manchester
branch of Woolworth's at the age of 7. The cowboy costume story, though a bit
long, and the section about an American boy, Jake, who was briefly his best
friend at age 10, are the real thing: funny, wistful, sparkling with details.
(For instance: The dessert for the compulsory English school dinner is Spotted
Dick, "which actually tastes worse than it sounds.")

Musicians as cultural signposts

But Morewood overreaches himself as a cultural historian, trying to explain the
contrast between gray, dreary postwar Britain and bright, busy postwar America
through pop music icons: Elvis, the Beatles, the Sex Pistols. He also insists on
impersonating them, not very well, and acts out a lot of irrelevant bits such as
Beatles manager Brian Epstein's press conference announcing the Beatles' first
American tour. ("We're going to America," he says insightfully.)

The punk rebellion of the '70s turned Morewood from a blue-collar worker into a
comedian, though of a particularly gritty, glum British prole variety.

He also has a stint as a striptease telegram deliverer, and the funniest bit in
the show is a gig in which he delivers a Rambogram to a secretaries' birthday
lunch. He lurks outside the restaurant, topless, in jungle warfare pants,
carrying a toy submachine gun. When he finally gets the signal to burst in, all
the waiters and the other diners think he's a terrorist.

Lurching into seriousness

When he finally moves to San Francisco, gets married and decides to apply for
resident-alien status, the piece lurches into seriousness, sentimentality and
expressionism. The immigration interview he plays as a torture session, his eyes
blindfolded with an American flag and the interrogator's litany of nasty,
intrusive questions accompanied by the sound of wasps angrily buzzing.

Granted, the questions ("Have you any venereal diseases?") are really stupid.
But one would expect a comedian to have a field day lampooning them. Morewood
was a lot funnier about the Australian immigration ritual: "Have you a criminal
record?" "I didn't know you still needed one!"

Morewood is an amiable performer, but his gestures are ineffectual and his
delivery, for the most part, uncompelling. This piece needs badly to go back to
Customs to have its entry visa scrutinized.

How to Become an American
By Tony Morewood
* Producer: The Marsh
* Through: Aug. 26
* Running time: 100 minutes
* Where: 1062 Valencia St., San Francisco
* Tickets: $8-$12. (415) 826-5750
* Parking: New Mission Bartlett Garage, 21st Street between Mission and
Valencia, $2.75

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: THEATER REVIEW

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              147 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 15, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TENSIONS RISE AMONG HISPANICS U.S.-BORN MEXICAN-AMERICANS, IMMIGRANTS CLASH

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON - MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1335 words


They tend to live in the same neighborhoods, shop in the same stores and share a
common heritage.

But that is where the similarities between U.S.-born Mexican-Americans and newly
arrived Mexican immigrants often end. The groups are divided by language,
traditions and tensions created by being born on opposite sides of the
U.S.-Mexican border.

With the passage last year of a state law restricting the rights of illegal
immigrants, Hispanic scholars say the 9 million Mexican-Americans in the United
States are trying harder than ever to disassociate themselves from the 5 million
Mexican immigrants living among them.

"You have a throwback to the '50s and '60s, when native-born Mexican-Americans
were saying that they were Spanish, not Mexican," said Harry Pachon, president
of the Tomas Rivera Center on Latino Public Policy in Southern California. "They
are picking up on the whole anti-immigrant mood, and they are internalizing the
message."

Sometimes the split manifests itself in little ways - such as a Mexican
immigrant laughing at a U.S.-born Chicano who can't speak Spanish. At other
times, it leads to bloodshed - such as the gang warfare in San Jose streets
between the Nortenos, who tend to be U.S.-born, and the Surenos, who often are
immigrants.

The infighting is a prime example of the complexity of the U.S. Latino
population - a wide cross-section of races, cultures and nationalities.

While large influxes of ethnic groups have marked U.S. history - such as Irish,
Italian and Chinese immigrants in the 19th century - none has been as large or
as constant as that of Mexicans, whose proximity and economic hardships have
provided a continual incentive to move north.

These immigrants, who often come from rural farming towns and have very little
education or money, are looked down upon by some U.S.-born Hispanics, some of
whom trace their roots in California and the Southwest as far back as the
Spanish conquistadores.

Evident almost everywhere

In Santa Clara County, where Hispanics are the largest minority group, the 1990
census documented 76,994 Mexican immigrants and 172,058 Mexican-Americans.
Neither community has had an easy time of confronting its differences, and for
many members of both communities, such differences are irrelevant to their
shared lives. But those who agreed to talk about the tensions said they are
evident almost everywhere.

Mexican-Americans such as Gracie Franco, 34, who was born in Phoenix and raised
in San Jose, complain that because of xenophobia directed at new immigrants, she
and other U.S.-born Latinos are treated like foreigners in their own country.
They also say immigrants take jobs that could go to Mexican-Americans born here.

"They come here and in no time at all they have a job because they are willing
to work for below minimum wage," Franco said, complaining that this is common in
the service industries. "Meanwhile, I'm trying to demand fair wages and I can't
find anything."

Mexican immigrants, on the other hand, say that some of the worst discrimination
they experience is from Mexican-Americans who resent being spoken to in Spanish
or being thought of as "Mexican."

"They are stuck between two worlds," said Maria Reyes, 36, a Mexican immigrant
who has lived in San Jose 15 years. "They are not good enough for the white,
English-speaking world and they are not able to fit into the Spanish-speaking
world either. That leaves them filled with anger that they turn on the new
immigrants."

Reyes, who does not speak English, said one of the first English words she
encountered in this country was "wetback" - a put-down for undocumented Mexican
immigrants. Chicanos at the restaurant where Reyes worked used the word freely
to insult their immigrant co-workers.

"They hated us and I never understood why," she said.

The tension became even more prevalent in Reyes' life after her 19-year-old son,
who came from Mexico when he was 3, joined a Sureno gang five years ago.

"He was getting beaten up, and he was beating up people, just because they were
Chicanos and he was mexicano," she said. "It's completely crazy, but that's the
reality on the streets."

Rodolfo O. de la Garza, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin, said
the schism is to be expected since Mexican-Americans grow up in a society that
looks down on foreigners and promotes negative stereotypes of immigrants.

Opinion surveys conducted by de la Garza and included in the book "Latino
Voices" suggest that Mexican-Americans feel closer to whites than they do to
Mexican immigrants.

Mexican-Americans "view the world through an American lens," de la Garza said.
"The Mexican immigrants have a different set of expectations because they were
raised in another country. . . . What happens is that, to the non-Latino, there
is an inability to distinguish between the two populations and that generates
resentment."

Political split

The differences between the two communities sometimes split them along political
lines too, as occurred during the early campaign for California's Proposition
187, which would deny most public services to undocumented immigrants. In a
September 1994 Los Angeles Times poll, 52 percent of the state's mostly
native-born Hispanic registered voters favored the restrictive measure.

By Election Day, though, the initiative had become not just a proposal to
curtail illegal immigration but a source of possible discrimination against all
Hispanics, de la Garza said, and Los Angeles Times exit polls showed that 78
percent of Latino voters opposed it. The two communities united after concluding
they shared a common threat of prejudice, he said.

De la Garza added that the initial outburst of Mexican-American support for the
proposal was born out of frustration with the constant wave of immigrants from
Mexico.

Complaints like those of Greg Heredia, 32, a San Jose native of Mexican descent,
are common.

"We keep our houses up," he said. "The people who come here from Mexico, they're
not very clean. They have cars all over their lawns and they tend not to take
care of what they have."

Mexicans also develop stereotypes about Mexican-Americans. In Mexico, for
example, it is not unusual for Mexican-Americans to be laughed at for speaking
broken Spanish.

Ivonne Montes de Oca, a Mexican businesswoman who moved to San Jose in 1987,
said she was visiting a Mexico City museum four years ago when the tour guide
began criticizing Chicanos for celebrating Cinco de Mayo with more splendor than
that reserved for Mexican Independence Day, Sept. 16.

"It used to be almost like a sport in Mexico to criticize Chicanos," she said.
"People would say, 'They are so tontos (stupid). They don't even speak Spanish
well."

Montes de Oca said she thinks envy and social differences account for the gulf
between Mexicans and Mexican-Americans.

The feeling is "How dare these lesser members of our society come here with all
this money and all these nice cars?" she said. "The Chicanos become in their
eyes a hybrid of gringos and mexicanos. They look bizarre to them."

Bridging the gap

Macario Ortiz-Franco, 44, a social studies teacher at Yerba Buena High School in
San Jose, said education can bridge the gap between the two communities.

Many Mexican immigrants "don't understand Chicanos because they've never been
taught about these Americans of Mexican descent," he said. "The same thing is
true for Chicanos, who are never told about their rich roots in Latin America. I
think that the educational system can do a lot more to bring the two groups
closer."

........
Yet Ortiz-Franco sees the separations daily in his classroom. The cliques are no
different than they were 30 years ago when he was a young Mexican immigrant
going to school in Southern California:

"The immigrants hang out together because they share a common language and the
Chicanos hang out together because that's who they feel most comfortable with."

(Last two paragraphs ran in Stock Final)

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: LLOYD FRANCIS JR. - MERCURY NEWS
'(Mexican-Americans) are stuck between two worlds...That leaves them with anger
that they turn on the new immigrants.' - Maria Reyes, a Mexican immigrant who
has lived in San Jose for 15 years
[950815 FR 1A 1; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              148 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 18, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MADE IN EL MONTE AUTHORITIES KNEW ABOUT SLAVE LABOR BUT LOOKED AWAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 409 words


PICTURE six apartment buildings surrounded by barbed wire in a gritty Southern
California suburb. Inside, 74 immigrant women labor over sewing machines for $2
an hour, 16 hours a day, six days a week. They can't leave, except on Sundays
for grocery shopping, and only with guards who threaten to rape them and kill
their families in Thailand if they escape.

Federal authorities knew about this virtual enslavement of illegal Thai
immigrants three years ago but did not act. The discovery in El Monte raises
lots of questions, but the most pressing one now concerns the criminal
indifference of federal agencies.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service and U.S. Attorney first learned about
the sweatshop in April 1992 but closed the investigation prematurely three
months later. That was the INS under President Bush. The INS under President
Clinton didn't do any better. Almost three years after the first investigation,
the INS interviewed an eyewitness, a woman who had escaped from the factory. The
INS still didn't lift a finger, saying it lacked "probable cause" to do so. It
took the initiative of local and state authorities to bust the slaveshop.

Now let's get this straight. The INS and U.S. Attorney had in front of them the
initial report, an eyewitness' compelling account, and suspicious barbed wire
all over the place. What more did the agency want, a videotape?

If all that wasn't disgraceful enough, the INS then humiliated the young Thai
workers by arresting them and shuttling them between prison and court in
handcuffs and orange uniforms. The workers were here illegally, but that doesn't
excuse their exploitation or the federal government's inaction. They were
victims of a terrible crime.

Some of the Thai women, to their credit, are willing to testify against their
former bosses without a guarantee that they can remain in this country
afterward. And now, at last, the feds are trying to win back-pay for the
workers. They also are looking for contractors and retailers who may have known
about the sweatshop.

There's more to explain, but here's one bit of important clarity: Profits from
sweatshops offer unscrupulous employers a powerful incentive to recruit and
exploit illegal immigrants. Kill the sweatshop through aggressive code and law
enforcement, and you eliminate one of the many forces driving illegal
immigration.

The INS failure in El Monte shows the agency still isn't up to the job.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              149 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 24, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NEW CITIZENS URGED TO GET OUT AND VOTE

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 705 words


Minutes before 1,710 people gathered Wednesday in San Jose's Civic Auditorium to
become U.S. citizens, they got a message from the Santa Clara County registrar
of voters: California's presidential primary is only seven months away, so sign
up now.

For the first time, a representative of the registrar's office gave a
get-out-and-vote speech at a local naturalization ceremony. But the efforts
generated resentment from the League of Women Voters - a group that has been
giving similar talks and signing up voters at such ceremonies for 25 years.

Some league members complained that the registrar will overwhelm new citizens
with a civics lesson on a day that should be filled with celebration. Others
were upset about the registrar's aggressive push to speak to the new citizens in
languages other than English.

Considering that 79 foreign countries were represented at Wednesday's ceremony,
singling out a few foreign languages for special treatment would prove divisive
on a day meant to celebrate the immigrants' new Americanism, league members
contended.

Marty Peterson, a San Jose resident who has been at naturalization ceremonies
for 14 years, said she feels the ceremony should be "more like a graduation
party." Besides, the league's sign-up rate already is an impressive 80 to 85
percent, said Peterson, the naturalization coordinator of the league's San
Jose-Santa Clara chapter.

"This is not the time to conduct a class or use other languages," added
Peterson, who gave a separate voter-registration pitch at Wednesday's ceremony.

But the seven representatives of the registrar's office who attended the
ceremony couldn't see the harm in complementing the league's efforts by
providing help to potential new voters confused by the registration process. On
hand were election workers who spoke Spanish, Vietnamese and Chinese - the three
languages in which the federal Voting Rights Act requires the registrar to
provide "oral language assistance."

"We have the staff to provide assistance and feel that we can make a
difference," said Elma Martinez, coordinator of the registrar's bilingual voter
program. "We want to make the best use of taxpayers' money."

Socorro McCord, who gave the registrar's speech, said many new citizens need to
be encouraged to vote because they come from countries where government is seen
as the oppressor.

"A lot of people here can get lost in the shuffle," said McCord, a member of the
registrar's bilingual advisory committee. "What seems so obvious and simple for
other people is not often obvious and simple."

In the end, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials seemed pleased
with the way the registrar's new program complemented the league's involvement.

"We're trying to avoid competition," said Richard Brown, district adjudication
officer in the San Jose office of the INS. "We don't want anything to get in the
way of a festive occasion."

League and registrar representatives did agree on at least one thing - that the
most perplexing part of the registration process comes when new citizens have to
check a box designating a political party. This is particularly true because
most of the names of the parties are as American as apple pie.

"People see the Peace and Freedom Party and say, 'I want peace. I want freedom,'
" the league's Peterson said, laughing. "They see American Independent Party and
say, 'I want to be an American; I want to be independent.' "

Rep. Zoe Lofgren, the San Jose Democrat who spoke at Wednesday's ceremony, had
an answer to those befuddled by political labels.

"Choose 'decline to state,' " she advised, noting that they could worry about
what party to join later.

One new citizen who had no problem picking a party was Eulalio Solorio, a
58-year-old Mexican immigrant who has lived in the United States for 22 years.

He said he knew the score politically; his problems were language and eyesight.

So he was happy to see Elma Martinez, who provided Spanish language assistance
and helped him read the small print on the voter registration form.

Solorio quickly checked the party box.

"Republican," said the retired warehouseman at San Jose's Rosicrucian Museum.
"I've always liked them."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
Socorro McCord gives a sticker to a newly registered voter.
[950824 LO 1B AL 3; color]
PHOTO: KAREN T. BORCHERS - MERCURY NEWS
Socorro McCord, right, congratulates Si Tan Do of San Jose.
[950824 LO 1B 1; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              150 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 24, 1995 Thursday STOCK FINAL EDITION

INS ARRESTS 55 IN 'SWEATSHOPS'

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 62 words


For the second time in less than a month, raids in Los Angeles have turned up
evidence of immigrants paying off passage to the United States by working in
sweatshop-like conditions, making clothing for big-name stores. Authorities took
55 people into custody Wednesday in a joint operation of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and the U.S. Department of Labor.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              151 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 25, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS FOUND IN RAIDS OF 3 GARMENT SWEATSHOPS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 200 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


For the second time in less than a month, raids have turned up evidence of
immigrants allegedly paying off passage to the United States by working in
sweatshop-like conditions, making clothes apparently destined for major
retailers.

Fifty-five people were taken into custody Wednesday in a joint operation of the
U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service and the U.S. Department of Labor.

The raids came three weeks after a sweep of an El Monte sweatshop, where
authorities discovered 72 Thai nationals imprisoned under miserable conditions,
forced to sew clothes for up to 150 hours a week.

Garments recovered in that raid probably were destined for many of the country's
major retailers, including Macy's, Mervyn's and Neiman-Marcus, authorities said.

Clothing found at the latest shops also probably was headed for big-name stores,
they said.

Interviews with workers in the three facilities raided Wednesday produced
evidence of "minimum-wage, overtime, child-labor and record-keeping violations,"
Department of Labor investigator Francisco J. Ocampo said.

But there is no indication that any of the workers were kept at the facilities
against their will, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              152 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 26, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATORS GRILL OFFICIALS ABOUT SWEATSHOPS HEARING: DESPITE TIPS, A VIRTUAL
PRISON SLIPPED THROUGH THE CRACKS.

BYLINE: John Horn, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: EL MONTE


State senators quizzed federal and local officials Friday on how an apartment
complex served as a virtual prison for garment workers despite repeated tips,
surveillance and inspections.

Garment makers, their immigrant employees and a representative of major
retailers were called to testify at a hearing into labor abuse of people who
make designer clothes.

The hearing stemmed from a series of raids on four Southern California
sweatshops, where investigators found workers living in what they called
slave-like conditions, and evidence they had been cheated on wages and overtime.

Much of the session was filled with agitated trading of accusations - with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the U.S. Attorney's Office and the city
of El Monte collecting most of the complaints.

The INS received a tip about the El Monte complex anonymously from a worker. INS
agents watched the complex, but took no action.

William Slattery, executive associate commissioner for INS field operations,
said that while agents saw trucks delivering and picking up garments, scraps and
pieces of clothing, "no evidence was obtained to support the initial anonymous
information that people were being held against their will, or that aliens were
involved."

State Sen. Richard Mountjoy, R-Arcadia, assailed the INS' handling of the
matter, saying it ignored clear signs that something was amiss.

"It's astounding to me that you had this information and you ignored it,"
Mountjoy said.

State Sen. Tom Hayden, D-Los Angeles, was equally incredulous that the INS
failed to put the pieces together.

"It wouldn't have been the corporate headquarters of a Fortune 500 company,
would it?" he asked Slattery of the residential complex that appeared to have no
residents.

Slattery defended the INS' conduct, saying the U.S. Attorney's Office declined
to give it the warrant it needed to investigate further.

The federal prosecutors said they needed more evidence before issuing a search
warrant, Slattery said.

Representatives for retailers said they cannot assume the liability for how
their clothes are produced.

"Turning retail merchandisers into INS agents and labor inspectors is neither an
appropriate nor effective solution to the problem," said Robert Hall, vice
president of the National Retail Foundation.

He and another retail representative said the state should spend more to
investigate work conditions, and that the public must not assume retailers
condone or encourage sweatshops because they inadvertently sell clothes made in
them.

City officials said Friday they inspected the fortress-like compound in El Monte
twice in early and late 1993, following complaints about an iron fence and a
report that a business was being conducted in the residentially zoned property.

James Mussenden, code enforcement supervisor for El Monte, said the inspections
revealed nothing out of the ordinary.

Hayden asked why the inspections failed to explain why a rental unit was both
devoid of visible tenants and surrounded by barbed wire.

"The apartment did not appear to be a compound," Mussenden said. He admitted
that city officials did not enter the property on one inspection tour, opting to
examine the unit from the street.

An El Monte sewing plant was raided on Aug. 3 and 72 Thai immigrants were found,
apparently kept against their will and forced to work up to 17 hours a day.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              153 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  August 27, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VIETNAMESE, FILIPINOS HERE TAKE DIFFERENT CAREER PATHS IMMIGRANT JOB MACHINE AS
VALLEY'S TECH FORTUNES SHIFT, FILIPINOS AND VIETNAMESE SEEK NEW CAREERS

BYLINE: THERESA C. VILORIA AND ERIC LAI, Mercury News Staff Writers

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 2085 words


AS SILICON Valley continues its slow but inexorable shift from a manufacturing
region into a center of high-tech research and design, two Asian ethnic
communities - the Filipino and Vietnamese - are adapting differently to the
post-industrial economy.

More than any other groups except possibly Hispanics, Filipinos and later the
Vietnamese made up Silicon Valley's blue-collar workforce that made the chips
and built the computers for cheap wages - contributions ignored by the Silicon
Valley mythology that glorifies its buccaneers and inventors.

"The way this industry arose was on the backs, hands and strained eyesight of
these immigrant women," said Karen Hossfeld, a sociologist at San Francisco
State University.

For both groups, Silicon Valley's economic transformation has been painful,
pushing many of them either into new careers or into lower-paying jobs,
according to experts who track employment trends.

The boom in high-tech manufacturing and assembly jobs during the late 1960s
lured many Filipino immigrants and, in the late 1970s, Vietnamese refugees. Many
of these new settlers had never worked in the high-tech industry; but for a huge
percentage, these entry-level high-tech jobs were the ladders that led them into
the middle class.

But since the major chip manufacturers like Intel Corp. and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. began to shift their factories out of state or overseas to cut
costs, the workers in these two groups have had to find new options. Filipinos
are tending to leave the high-tech industry, according to Hossfeld. Many
Filipino women have left assembly jobs to become nurses or hotel workers, for
instance.

By contrast, many older Vietnamese continue to
work in high-tech assembly jobs. But with large corporations cutting their
manufacturing positions, the workers are heading to smaller, ethnic-owned firms
that pay less, offer fewer benefits and little job security.

Meanwhile, younger Vietnamese are moving into higher positions - such as
engineering or as owners of their own businesses - which had been inaccessible
to their parents.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that small Vietnamese-owned software, design and
manufacturing firms are popping up in the anonymous high-tech business parks all
over the valley. But the Filipino populace doesn't seem to be following the same
trend into higher-paying technology jobs - despite a more than 15-year head
start.

"The second generation of Vietnamese are by and large doing much better than the
Filipinos," said Edward Park, a University of Southern California sociologist.

Beginning in the late 1960s, Asian immigrants came to Santa Clara County for one
simple reason: jobs.

When Carolina Urbi arrived in San Francisco in 1956 armed with a teaching degree
from a university in her native Philippines, she, like other unemployed and
frustrated Filipinos under the economically stagnant Marcos regime, hoped to
leverage her college education into a professional job.

But finding that her college degree carried little weight among American
employers and forced by economic circumstance ("I had seven children and I
didn't have time to go back to school"), Urbi took a job putting together
computer boards for an electronics company.

Forty-seven percent of the assemblers and 42 percent of the laborers in Santa
Clara County factories in the 1980s were Asian women, most of them Vietnamese or
Filipinos like Urbi, according to Lenny Siegel, director of the Pacific Studies
Center in Mountain View, who analyzed data from the 1990 U.S. Census.

These workers provided a cheap and plentiful labor source that Hossfeld argues
was as important to Silicon Valley's rise as its proximity to think tanks like
Stanford University and Xerox PARC.

"I don't think the industry would have progressed so rapidly and resulted in so
much money without a workforce like this," Hossfeld said.

Whole assembly lines at companies like Amdahl Corp. and Intel had rows upon rows
of Filipino and Vietnamese women. They worked long hours in repetitive and
sometimes - because of workplace injuries and toxic chemicals - dangerous jobs.

Employers preferred to hire Asians through family networks, with women much more
in demand than men.

The first in her clan to land an electronics assembly job, Urbi, now 65,
eventually brought her daughter, sister and niece into the company.

Her niece, Jane Urbi, worked for 15 years at five electronics companies,
advancing from assembly line and manufacturing jobs to finally an engineering
coordinator at Lam Research Corp. in San Jose.

"One Silicon Valley employer told me that in hiring you looked for small,
foreign and female," said Hossfeld, who is writing a book about immigrant women
who toiled in the early assembly lines titled "Small, Foreign and Female."

"He said if you do those three things right it takes care of itself, because
they are not people we see as wanting to organize" a labor union.

Filipino and Vietnamese women working in electronics and high-tech jobs earned
the lowest salaries in the valley, averaging less than $22,000 per year, about
$3,000 to $5,000 less than their male counterparts, who were generally employed
in slightly higher positions like machine operators, according to 1990 U.S.
Census data.

By contrast, the average white man in the electronics industry earned more than
$54,000 per year. Japanese, Chinese and Indian men earned incomes nearly as high
as white men, said Siegel, but their educational and class backgrounds tended to
be much higher.

Nevertheless, most felt that the jobs were a godsend. Margarite Tran, a
Vietnamese who came to the Bay Area in 1981, supported eight children through
her job as a computer technician.

While Filipinos tended to arrive in the Bay Area directly from the Philippines,
the Vietnamese - who had been scattered all over the United States as part of
the government's resettlement program - heard about the high-tech job
opportunities and made migrated to San Jose.

Kim Phan's husband, a former South Vietnamese soldier, moved from Kentucky to
San Jose in 1979 to work as a machine operator. Phan, now 47, came with her
three children a year later. She started working at Amdahl back in 1982 at the
urging of a Caucasian female friend. "Why you stay home? You need two incomes!
Help your husband!" the woman told Phan.

But as the economy stalled and manufacturing costs mounted, Silicon Valley firms
began to shift their production facilities out of state or overseas. Phan, who
had earned $14 an hour soldering components to a motherboard, became one of the
casualties, when she was laid off from Amdahl in 1994.

The Mercury News reported that by 1987, chip makers had only one-third of their
wafer fabrication facilities left in Silicon Valley.

In the last two years, Silicon Valley has started to boom again and the Filipino
and Vietnamese communities - 62,000 and 54,000 strong, respectively, according
to the 1990 census, - are scrambling to hold onto their positions or make the
leap into this new economy.

Many Vietnamese are choosing to remain in technology, though they are being
forced to accept lower-paying and less-stable jobs. Margarite Tran, a former
technician at an electronics company, recently returned to work as an assembler
for a medical devices company.

After being laid off from Amdahl, Phan bounced around among several companies
before finding her current job assembling phones.

Many older Vietnamese are trying to remain competitive in the job market by
retraining. About 60 percent of the students studying chip design or computer
repair at the Institute of Business and Technology in Santa Clara are
Vietnamese, said Tony McCormick, placement officer.

Graduating chip design students can get jobs starting around $35,000 to $40,000
per year, not including benefits, McCormick said.

But many older Vietnamese, because of poor English skills, have few options.
Consequently, they are forced to take jobs with smaller, ethnic-owned factories.
Of the pure chip-manufacturing companies remaining in Silicon Valley, many are
"foundries," hired guns that make chips on a contractual basis for other
semiconductor firms.

Local foundries, to compete with factories in Malaysia or Thailand, often pay
minimum or below-minimum wages to recent or undocumented immigrants, whose poor
language skills or immigration status prevent them from getting a better job,
according to Hossfeld. Women like Phan with a lot of assembly experience look
down on Vietnamese-owned factories.

By contrast, many Filipinos have opted to leave the high-tech industry
altogether, according to USC's Park, who has studied Asian workers in Silicon
Valley. A high percentage of Filipino women, for instance, are going into the
medical field.

Patria Aguilar, Carolina Urbi's daughter, was laid off after years at National
Semiconductor Corp. She now earns $7 an hour as a certified nurse's aide.

Jane Urbi also plans to leave the high-tech industry soon and is studying
accounting at San Jose State University.

Because their new jobs tend to pay a fraction of their old assembly line jobs,
many Filipinos are working two or even three jobs, said Ben Menor, a local San
Jose historian and Filipino community leader.

Some Filipinos have certainly made their mark in the high-tech industry. Dado
Banatao heads S3 Inc. in Santa Clara, a leading manufacturer of graphics chips.
S3's products were recently endorsed by Microsoft Corp. for use in the new
Windows 95 software.

Ray Ocampo, 42, is the top lawyer and a vice president for Oracle Corp. in
Redwood City. Ocampo and other high-ranking Filipino executives and
entrepreneurs insist that Filipinos are successful, but just less conspicuous.

"There are many Filipinos in the high-tech business. We're just invisible," said
Mary Lou Nonaka, vice president of HNL, a small electronics parts manufacturer
in Santa Clara. "We have Spanish surnames, and we blend in because of our
appearance." Nonaka, who is three-quarters Filipino and one-quarter Caucasian
runs HNL with her Japanese-American husband.

But Hossfeld claims that most of these successful Filipinos came after the fall
of the Marcos regime in 1986 and tend to be very wealthy and well-educated.

And it still remains that only 16, or 2 percent, of the 695 Filipino-owned
businesses responding to a 1994 survey by the Silicon Valley Filipino Chamber of
Commerce were technology-related. More than half were nursing-related.

"There are not that many Filipinos in leadership positions in high tech" because
of a lack of role models and a historically weak Filipino business network, said
Ben Bongolan, 26, a software engineer at Intel. He says most of the Filipinos he
encounters at Intel are still low-level assembly-line workers.

Meanwhile, the Vietnamese, most of whom arrived here as penniless refugees, are
opening up small design firms and factories in the anonymous business parks
dotting the valley. But like the Filipinos, these entrepreneurs - like Hao
Nguyen of Fremont - tend to come from elite backgrounds. The son of a French
professor in Vietnam, Nguyen, 37, arrived in the United States in 1975 and
currently is the owner of Jovian Corp., a Fremont designer and maker of video
cards.

"I raised most of my money from my relatives, not venture capitalists," Nguyen
said.

Among the second generation that was reared in the States, the Vietnamese seem
to be adapting better to the needs of the changing economy. Eighty percent of
the Vietnamese students at UC-Santa Barbara in the early 1990s majored in
engineering or computer science, according to Hien Do, a social sciences
professor at San Jose State University.

Four of Margarite Tran's eight children are working as salespeople or engineers
for high-tech firms.

Meanwhile, about 65 percent of the Filipino students at the state's larger
universities drop out, Menor said.

Older Filipino-Americans, soured by their inability to turn their college
degrees into professional jobs, may be failing to ingrain the value of education
into their children.

"The long term is not necessarily in their plans," said Menor. "There's no
investment for the future."

For the Vietnamese, their economic aspirations, for better or worse, seem to be
displaced onto the next generation.

"My husband and me came to America late, and that's why we're blue collar," Phan
said. "We only hope for them (children) a better life than us."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Entrepreneur Hao Nguyen is the owner of Jovian Corp. in Fremont. His company
does research and development on the technology that converts video images into
digital format.
[950827 BU 4D 1]
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
Carolina Urbi, 65, was among the first Filipino immigrants to work in Silicon
Valley in the 1960s. Her daughter, Patria Aguilar, worked for National
Semiconductor for years and now works as a nurse's aide.
[950827 BU 1D 1; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              154 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 August 29, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION REPORT UNCOVERS A MYTH NO 'UNDERCLASS' SEEN AS NUMBERS SOAR

BYLINE: Angie Cannon, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 843 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Nearly one in 11 U.S. residents was foreign-born last year, the highest
percentage since World War II and nearly double the 1970 level of 4.8 percent,
according to a new Census Bureau report.

The study, which counted both legal and illegal immigrants, challenges some
stereotypes:

Compared with native-born Americans, new immigrants are more likely to be poor
and on welfare. But more settled immigrants - those who came here before 1970 -
are less likely than native-born Americans to suffer those economic conditions.

"Economic integration takes place faster than the current political debate seems
to acknowledge," said Michael Fix, an immigration expert at the Urban Institute.

Among the Census Bureau's findings:

* Of the 22.6 million foreign-born people living in the United States in 1994,
one in five arrived in the past five years. During the 1980s, 8.3 million
immigrated to the United States, and 9.8 million came before 1980.

* Immigrants are concentrated in several states. A third, or 7.7 million, live
in California, where immigrants make up a quarter of the population. New York
has 2.9 million immigrants, and Florida ranks third with 2.1 million. Texas,
Illinois and New Jersey have more than 1 million immigrants each.

Mexico tops list

* The biggest group of immigrants came from Mexico - 6.2 million. The next
largest group - 1 million - came from the Philippines.

* Of the 4.5 million most recent immigrants, more than a quarter came from
Mexico and 243,000 came from Russia. Other countries with large numbers of
recent immigrants include Vietnam, the Dominican Republic, the Philippines,
India and El Salvador.

Early this century, the percent of foreign-born was far higher than now -
reaching a record high of 14.7 percent in 1910 - after 50 years of sustained
immigration. But the flow declined sharply after Congress in 1924 enacted a
system of racial and ethnic quotas. By 1970, the percent of foreign-born dropped
to 4.8 percent of the population.

The current wave of immigration began in 1965 when Congress overhauled
immigration laws to do away with racial quotas. Congress passed another
immigration reform measure in 1990 that substantially increased levels of legal
immigration.

Political issue

The sharp rise in foreign-born population since 1970 has become a major
political issue because of allegations that immigrants are making excessive use
of public benefits and are taking job opportunities from natives.

California voters overwhelmingly approved Proposition 187, a ballot initiative
designed to prevent illegal immigrants from receiving various state services and
benefits. However, federal and state courts halted implementation of the
initiative pending trials on its constitutionality.

In March, the House enacted and the Senate is now considering measures that
would cut off major federal welfare benefits to legal immigrants who are not
citizens. In addition, Congress is set to consider and President Clinton has
endorsed proposals to greatly reduce levels of legal immigration.

Reynolds Farley, a University of Michigan sociology professor, said that
previous studies support the finding that the newest immigrants are worse off
economically than comparable natives. But after about 15 years of living in the
United States, they are about as well off as comparable natives, he said.

"There is no evidence from the 1990 census that immigrants will create a larger
underclass," Farley said.

The Census Bureau study found other differences between recent immigrants and
their more established predecessors. For example:

* Immigrants who arrived here after 1990 are more likely to receive welfare than
native-born Americans - 5.7 percent vs. 2.9 percent. But only 1.4 percent of
foreign-born Americans who came here before 1970 are on welfare.

Poverty rates studied

* The foreign-born are more likely to live in poverty than natives - 22.9 vs.
14.4 percent. And recent immigrants are twice as likely to be in poverty as
natives - 37.1 percent. But those who came before 1970 are less likely than
natives to be in poverty - 10.8 percent.

* Immigrants had a lower median income in 1993 than natives - $12,179 vs.
$15,876. But people who immigrated during the 1970s have similar median incomes
to natives. Recent immigrants have the lowest median income ($8,393).

* Educational status is a paradox. Immigrants are both more and less educated
than natives. About 36 percent of immigrants don't have high school degrees,
compared with 17.1 percent of natives. At the same time, 11.5 percent of recent
immigrants have a graduate degree, and only 7.5 percent of natives and previous
immigrants have such advanced degrees.

"When you look at all these different characteristics, you get a sense that the
foreign-born people who stay here and become citizens seem to become like
native-born Americans," said Bob Warren, a demographer with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. "You see a picture of an immigrant population that after
some time fits in."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Washington Post contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              155 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 1, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS EXPECTS FLOOD OF WOULD-BE CITIZENS 1 MILLION FARMWORKERS ELIGIBLE FOR
CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 610 words


More than a million farmworkers who obtained legal residence in the United
States in the late '80s or early '90s become eligible today to apply for U.S.
citizenship, including almost 600,000 in California.

Federal officials are bracing for the press of citizenship applications at the
already overburdened offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which announced Thursday a $22 million plan to beef up and streamline the
process of turning immigrants into citizens.

The program aims to clear a backlog of cases and reduce processing delays to six
months starting next summer, INS Commissioner Doris Meissner said at a Los
Angeles naturalization ceremony.

While the newly eligible farmworkers are not expected to apply for citizenship
all at once, people who are involved in efforts to encourage immigrants to
become U.S. citizens expect as many as 500,000 new residents to seek their
citizenship in the next 12 months.

"This is probably the single day in which the largest number of people become
eligible," said immigration attorney Mark Silverman, with San Francisco's
Immigrant Legal Resource Center.

Local offices of the INS already are straining under the weight of a mammoth
backlog of citizenship applications as long as 18 months. A huge new pool of
would-be citizens has the potential to drag out INS processing delays even
longer, Meissner said.

The number of applicants has grown from about 384,000 in 1992 to nearly 1
million this year, Meissner said.

More than 1 million additional agricultural laborers who obtained their
temporary residence status from 1988 to 1990 became permanent residents Nov. 30,
1990. Immigration law permits people to submit their naturalization applications
three months before they have accumulated five years of legal residency.

Meissner said the so-called Citizenship USA program will involve quadrupling the
naturalization staff in the Los Angeles District - the nation's busiest - to 135
by January; increasing overtime; obtaining new computers and software; and
increasing the use of community organizations to handle the interview process.

The program will be expanded in the next few months to New York, Miami, Chicago
and San Francisco, which together with Los Angeles are responsible for more than
75 percent of citizenship applications, Meissner said. South Bay INS operations
are funded by resources distributed to the San Francisco office.

The huge growth in citizenship applications stems in part from the effects of
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 - which gave amnesty to roughly 3
million illegal immigrants - and in part from increased interest in citizenship
among perceived targets of legislation aimed at limiting the rights of illegal
and legal immigrants.

"I call it part of the Wilson-Gingrich citizenship promotion campaign of 1995,"
Silverman said, alluding in part to Gov. Pete Wilson's backing of Proposition
187, which would deny a host of government services to illegal immigrants in
California, and to his support while a U.S. senator of provisions in the 1986
act that permitted foreign agricultural workers to obtain U.S. citizenship.

Silverman's Immigrant Legal Resource Center is holding a news conference today
to encourage eligible residents to seek U.S. citizenship. The center has been
hosting a series of Spanish-language forums to help people who are interested in
becoming citizens learn about the eligibility requirements and fill out the
necessary paperwork.

Other Bay Area organizations are involved in similar efforts, including Catholic
Charities, the Center for Employment Training and La Raza Centro Legal.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Associated Press contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Seven thousand people are sworn in as U.S. citizens Thursday at the Los Angeles
Convention Center as part of the new Citizenship USA program.
[950901 CA 3B 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              156 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 3, 1995 Sunday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

CAREER IS CUT SHORT BY SHOT HOME ATTACK: BRILLIANT IMMIGRANT IS KILLED IN AN
ATTEMPTED ROBBERY

BYLINE: KATHERINE CORCORAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 770 words


He was a Silicon Valley paradigm, a young, rapidly rising computer programmer
who drove an Acura with vanity plates but had a Jim Carrey poster in his office.

He was brilliant, according to colleagues, who say a bullet that pierced his
brain in an attempted robbery destroyed a work of art.

"There are so few people like him in the world," said co-worker Vadim Rosenberg.
"And now there is one less."

Ilya Sogolov, a project leader at Redwood City's Fourth Dimension Software, died
Aug. 22 at the age of 23 in the stairwell of his Park Merced apartment building
near San Francisco State University. A 24-year-old colleague, Sogolov's
childhood friend, was shot in the throat and lies in a Bay Area hospital. His
prognosis is "touch and go," said San Francisco homicide inspector Napolean
Hendrix. The wounded man's family does not want his name released.

Police have made no arrests but are investigating reports that two young men,
possibly teen-agers, were seen running from the area.

Meantime, the shooting has devastated Fourth Dimension, a software development
company of 25 employees founded by Russian immigrants 14 years ago.

"People talk to each other whether they're president or secretary . . . We eat
in the same lunchroom, design software together," said company founder Jacob
Gluz. "No one could work the week that it happened."

The shooting also killed what in just a few years had become an immigrant
success story.

"These were two very young guys with incredible lives ahead of them. It was
limitless what these two could do," said Ilya Pavolotsky, the company's
executive vice president. "Now one is dead, and one is presumably disabled. They
came to this country looking for a great life. The dream was never fulfilled."

From the Ukraine

Sogolov came to the United States from the Ukraine four years ago, after winning
national computer science contests in his homeland, and took a job with Fourth
Dimension. Though he was only college age, his work far exceeded college level.

"He reached a level of knowledge and professionalism that could be expected of a
much older and more experienced person," said Rosenberg, a senior systems
analyst. "He took things very fast, read books in a couple hours, even technical
books."

The company, which develops software for international banking and international
travel reservations, operates like a sports team, according to one vice
president, with young, ambitious computer scientists in a friendly competition
to see who could advance the quickest and drive the best car. Outside work, they
enjoyed movies, music and parties together.

Sogolov "was right at top of the competition, the brightest we've ever had,"
Vice President Alex Zhornist said.

Married last Thanksgiving

Sogolov, who just married last Thanksgiving, was the one who kept up on the
news, trivia and pop culture of his new homeland for his compatriots. He
designed a mock vanity license plate for Zhornist: IH8G8S2. ("I hate Gates,
too.")

"He was not able to stand still," said Zhornist. "He was always asking for more
things to do."

But Sogolov suffered tragedy along with his success. At age 17 he lost his
mother to cancer. Three years later, after arriving in the United States, his
father succumbed to the same disease. Sogolov became the guardian to his
16-year-old sister, Svetlana, who attends high school in San Francisco.

Late on a Tuesday night, Sogolov was leaving his apartment to pick up his wife,
Marianna, from her job at Ghirardelli Square. Hendrix said he and his friend
were surprised and trapped in the stairwell by the gunmen. There was no sign of
a struggle. Sogolov was pronounced dead at the scene.

Sister the priority

The priority now is to look after Svetlana, Pavolotsky said. Fourth Dimension
has set up an education fund for the girl, who is living with her aunt and
cousin in San Francisco. The cousin, Sonya Dyakova, said the two families were
close. Sogolov was always around and helped Dyakova with her math homework.

"He was just a nice guy. I couldn't imagine anything like this happening to him.
He wouldn't do anything bad to anyone else," Dyakova said, adding that her
younger cousin "is taking it pretty well for a girl her age."

Sogolov's friends and co-workers are left to try to resume their normal lives.

"You cannot replace a person, especially one you don't see often in this world.
The availability of guns, that's the most depressing issue from our standpoint,"
Pavolotsky said.

"This is the land of opportunity and Russia is not," Gluz added. "Unfortunately
it's also a land of a lot of crime."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
A Svetlana Sogolov Fund has been established at Jewish Family and Children's
Services, 1600 Scott St., San Francisco, 94115.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Sogolov
[950903 LO 1B P 4]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              157 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEXAS GOVERNOR DOESN'T COTTON TO 'IMMIGRANT BASHING'

BYLINE: JAMES E. GARCIA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Texas


TEXAS GOV. George W. Bush has drawn a line in the sand.

As California Gov. Pete Wilson and other Republicans draw the ire of advocates
for immigrants for backing measures that would cut social services and public
education for illegal immigrants, Bush has set himself apart. The governor told
reporters in El Paso recently that he won't stand for any "immigrant bashing" by
presidential candidates visiting Texas in the coming months, no matter what
their party affiliation.

The governor made his statement while Dallas billionaire Ross Perot was playing
host to all but one of the Republican candidates for president at the United We
Stand conference of independent voters last month.

In a recent interview, Bush said his comments were not meant to upstage his
fellow Republicans or pick a fight. He said he was just answering a reporter's
question.

Furthermore, said Bush, he meant what he said.

Leaning back in his chair, his feet propped up on a coffee table in his Capitol
office, Bush suddenly sat straight up and interjected, "I believe it in my
heart!"

And that's that. No ulterior political motive. Nothing calculated about it. He
just doesn't think immigrants, especially Mexican immigrants - many of whom
cross the Texas-Mexico border and have borne the brunt of the attacks - are
simply wrong.

Mexico, he said, should be treated as a friend and an "ally of Texas." And you
can't expect to keep them as friends if you're blaming the citizens of that
country for everything that's wrong with the United States, he said. To do so,
Bush said, might force Mexico back into its shell and plunge it into another era
of isolationism.

Though far from perfect, Mexico has started to open its economy and reform the
political process. Bush said Americans need to nurture that, not stifle it.

Seems reasonable enough.

But the governor notes, accurately, that his "good neighbor" attitude toward
Mexico is not part of some recent conversion.

In July, the governor urged Republican leaders in Congress not to pull the plug
on a $20 billion loan package for Mexico designed to stabilize its economy in
the aftermath of the catastrophic peso devaluation in December. He asked Senate
Majority Leader Bob Dole, the front-runner in the race for the Republican
nomination for president, to fight attacks on U.S. aid to Mexico.

"This country, more than ever, should be standing by Mexico," Bush told a
gathering of the Texas Association of Mexican-American Chambers of Commerce in
Dallas in July.

In addition, Bush has met with Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo three times
since Zedillo took office in October. He attended the Mexican president's
inauguration. Noticeably absent from that event was Gov. Wilson.

During his last meeting with Zedillo, Bush repeated his vow to oppose efforts to
deny the right to a public education to children of Mexican descent in the
United States, whether they are here legally or not.

Other states have debated that and related immigration issues. In California,
voters approved a measure in November - Proposition 187 - which calls for the
elimination of most public services to illegal immigrants and their children. It
is tied up in the courts as lawyers debate its constitutionality.

Campaigning last fall, Bush said that he would not support anything vaguely like
the California measure. And he has reaffirmed that stance.

While there's no reason to doubt Bush's sincerity when he says that bashing
immigrants is wrong, the governor's position does have its political and
economic benefits.

Politically, immigration simply is not a hot-button issue here. An Associated
Press poll last year showed fewer than 5 percent of Texas voters thought it was
a top issue.

Economically, and this Bush knows well, Texas has the most to gain by remaining
friends with Mexico. The state is the top U.S. exporter to Mexico - about $19
billion in 1994 compared with California's $6 billion. And Texas is the most
popular transport route for U.S. merchandise crossing into Mexico. Now that
Mexican products are cheap - due to the peso devaluation - and more goods are
heading north than south, Texas has remained the primary commerce route.

Still, the governor makes no qualms about supporting tougher enforcement along
the border to keep illegal immigrants from crossing. He's told Zedillo that.

"We have to enforce our laws. That's why we have laws," Bush said.

Yet, Bush believes, "(Immigrants) come to Texas to provide for their families.
They come for love."

Gov. Wilson?

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Commentary
James E. Garcia is an Austin, Tex., American-Statesman staff writer and former
Latin America correspondent for Cox Newspapers.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Texas George W. Bush said Mexico should be treated as a friend and an
'ally of Texas.' And you can't expect to keep them as friends, he said, if
you're blaming the citizens of that country for everything that's wrong with the
United States.
[950904 ED 7B 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 4, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLINTON: I'VE BEEN GOOD TO CALIFORNIA INTERVIEW: EN ROUTE HERE, HE DISCUSSES
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, IMMIGRATION, HIGH-TECH EXPORTS, THE NEXT ELECTION AND
WILSON.

BYLINE: PHILIP J. TROUNSTINE, Mercury News Political Editor

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1233 words


President Clinton on Sunday questioned the impact of a California ballot measure
aimed at ending race and gender preferences, in his most extensive comments to
date on the sharpest issue facing the state on which his re-election hinges.

In an interview with the Mercury News from aboard Air Force One on his way to
Moffett Field in Mountain View, Clinton called the proposed California Civil
Rights Initiative (CCRI) a "deftly worded amendment" that would have uncertain
impact on efforts to redress racial and sexual discrimination.

The president, who stopped short of taking a stand on the ballot measure, also:

* Called for modest reductions of legal immigration and substantial further cuts
in illegal immigration.

* Pledged to lift more export controls on high-technology products and to sign
legislation to drastically reduce so-called frivolous stockholder lawsuits.

* Predicted that California voters would re-elect him because he has delivered
on his campaign promises to voters here.

Clinton arrived at Moffett Field on Sunday night for a Labor Day visit to
California State University, Monterey Bay and the Alameda County Labor Day
Picnic in Pleasanton. Tuesday, he will speak in Fresno, before returning to
Washington.

On his way to California on Sunday evening, Clinton was asked about the CCRI,
the measure aimed at the November 1996 ballot, that would ban government
entities from using race or gender as criteria for discriminating against or
granting preferential treatment to individuals in education, employment and
contracting.

"What does it mean? Does it mean there can be no race conscious effort?" he
asked. "I support affirmative action programs that I would call race conscious -
but not race preference," he said.

"It's a very deftly worded amendment, and it has a lot of appeal," Clinton said.
But he asked: "What does it include, what does it exclude?"

While he did not explain the difference between racial preference and "race
conscious," Clinton said: "I think it's important, in areas where minorities
have been systematically excluded or where women have been systematically
excluded, to make a conscious effort to give qualified people a chance to
serve."

He pointed to the U.S. Army, the Small Business Administration and large
corporations as models for successful, "race conscious" affirmative action.

The issue is critical for the president, who acknowledged that "it would be
difficult for me to win without California," which he called "the linchpin" of
his 1992 victory.

The last time the president weighed in on a big California issue - opposing
Proposition 187, the 1994 anti-illegal immigration measure - he had his head
handed to him as voters approved the measure 59 percent to 41 percent.

Today, California polls show that the same moderate, educated, suburban voters -
whose support Clinton needs - support the CCRI about 2-1.

Many experts, such as CNN analyst Bill Schneider, doubt that those numbers will
hold or that the measure will sail through next November. "But if it does,"
Schneider warned, "Clinton is finished. He loses California, loses the election
- end of story."

Clinton, however, predicted that he would carry California.

"I believe that I will carry California because I've done exactly what I said I
would do when I ran for president. I have worked very, very hard for the state."

He pointed to defense conversion funding for decommissioned military bases,
removal of export controls on high-technology products and federal disaster aid
for the Northridge earthquake, fires and other calamities.

In a riff that sounded as though it were lifted from one of Gov. Pete Wilson's
stump speeches, Clinton also said "a lot of people talk about" illegal
immigration, affirmative action and welfare reform. "We've actually done
something about it."

Clinton said he believed that "illegal immigration should be decreased
substantially" and that "you can make a good case for a modest reduction of the
quota on legal immigration."

But, he said, even illegal immigrants should continue to receive medical care
"to preserve the health of the entire community."

"I do believe that we should restrict public assistance to illegal immigrants to
the maximum extent possible, consistent with the health and welfare of our
country and the needs of children who may be here through no decision of their
own."

Keenly aware of the role Silicon Valley executives played in bestowing their
imprimatur on the would-be president in 1992, Clinton said he had made good on
his pledge to expand trade, lift export controls, push for increased funds for
research and development and provide relief from frivolous shareholder lawsuits.

On export controls, he said, "I want to lift some more." And he warned that "the
Republicans are trying to cut our investment in R&D by one-third at the time the
Japanese are doubling it."

He said he would "gladly sign" a bill to "drastically reduce" shareholder
lawsuits. But he will not sign versions of legislation under consideration by
the House and Senate that "basically say that it's OK for people to lie to their
investors."

Asked about Wilson's contention that he is the GOP contender Clinton fears most,
the president replied with a laugh:

"The truth is, I can't figure out which one is likely to run the best. I don't
think you can tell now. . . . I know he's from California but I believe I've
done a better job for the people of California than his policies would do for
the people of California."

While the statewide Field Poll shows just 37 percent of voters inclined to
re-elect him, Clinton is, ironically, lucky to have Wilson running for
president. With Wilson in the race, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, Sen. Phil
Gramm of Texas and other GOP candidates have been reluctant to spend much time
and money in California. Hence, Californians have heard a lot less
Clinton-bashing than have their counterparts in Iowa, New Hampshire, New York
and Florida.

Today, Clinton will praise the new-age California State University, Monterey Bay
as a national model for military base conversion and announce a $14 million
grant to fix Fort Ord's crumbling facilities for academic use.

Later, joined by AFL-CIO President Tom Donahue, he will rally the working-class
faithful at the Alameda County Labor Day picnic in Pleasanton, aligning himself
with the 16.7-million-member union movement that has seen its share of the
workforce dwindle to 15.5 percent last year.

Tuesday, he will slip over to Fresno County - where 13 percent of the workforce
is unemployed - to talk education and agriculture to voters who have grown
harshly skeptical of even moderate Democrats such as U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein.

Monterey, where he beat George Bush 47 percent to 31 percent, is the model of a
coastal California county with this twist: With 9.3 percent unemployment, it's a
place where Clinton's investment of $40.3 million to ease the pain of closing
Fort Ord can reap important political dividends.

On the other hand, Alameda County, along with San Francisco, is the bosom of
California liberalism - the counterweight to Orange County. Voters there gave
Clinton 63 percent of the vote in 1992 and followed in 1994 - the year of the
great Republican sweep of Congress - by re-electing ultraliberal Democratic Rep.
Ron Dellums with 72 percent of the vote.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: EUGENE LOUIE - MERCURY NEWS
President Clinton works the crowd after arriving at Moffett.
[950904 FR 24A 3]
PHOTO: Clinton
[950904 FR 1A 3; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              159 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 September 8, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIPS TO SPOT CULTURAL NUANCES

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON MERCURY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 545 words


Don't smile around Russian patients. They'll think you're stupid.

Reassure Vietnamese immigrants that medicine will not disturb their physical
harmony.

Stop chewing out ill Mexicans for seeing their curanderos (faith healers).

Those were just a few tips picked up by about 70 Bay Area health professionals
Thursday at the first "Wellness Through Diversity" conference, sponsored by
Santa Clara County's health department.

The nurses, doctors and hospital personnel learned cultural nuances that could
get in the way of effective treatments for Vietnamese, Cambodian, Russian and
Hispanic patients.

"A lot of doctors and nurses have a hard time with this because it's something
that they haven't spent much time studying," said Teresa Chagoya, a health
department employee who helped organize the conference. "The need is tremendous,
especially in this county, where so many of the patients are recent immigrants."

Language and cultural barriers often keep immigrants from receiving proper
medical treatment, Chagoya said. She said the attitude of many doctors is to
dismiss their patients' culture.

"They just gloss over it, like it's not there," Chagoya said.

But Kathy Woo, a pediatric nurse at Mount Zion Medical Center in San Francisco,
said doctors' lack of cultural knowledge often creates fear and mistrust among
patients.

Woo came to the conference, she said, because in 30 years as a nurse, she has
received little training about how different cultures view medical care.

"I'm dealing with a lot of Russian and Latino people, and I do not know enough
about them," she said. "It would help me to know how I can treat them better."

She recalled the case of a Hispanic mother whose child was removed from the home
because she refused to give the boy antibiotics for an ear infection. The mother
insisted instead on treating him with herbs and potions bought at a botanica, a
Latino herbal shop, Woo said.

"It's ridiculous that it had to go that far," Woo said. "If we had known more
about her culture, I think the doctor could have helped her understand why it
was important to treat the boy with traditional medicine."

Dr. Thuy Hoang, a Vietnamese immigrant who works for the Santa Clara Valley
Health and Hospital System, advised conference participants to have patience
with Vietnamese clients. She said many Vietnamese are distrustful of government
and public services and believe their families and friends are more trustworthy
when it comes to health advice.

Consequently, Aunt Nguyen's suggestion that pinching the forehead relieves
chronic dizziness is much more respected than a prescription from Dr. Smith,
Hoang said.

She said that many times, Vietnamese patients will stop taking medicines at the
slightest sign of a side effect.

"They believe it is disrupting their inner balance," Hoang said. "All they tell
their doctors is that it made them feel hot."

Many nurses and doctors said they left Thursday's workshop feeling better
prepared to treat immigrant patients. The Santa Clara Valley Health and Hospital
System hopes to sponsor similar workshops every six months. The next one,
planned for the spring, is expected to focus on Koreans and Middle Easterners,
county health organizer Alfredo Benavides said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              160 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 12, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WELCOME TO LA NUEVA AMERICA

BYLINE: RICHARD RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 875 words


WE ARE facing in the United States a moment as epic as that in 1492 when the
Indian spied the European galleons on the horizon. In this new pageant of
history, the blond becomes the new Native American; the Indian plays the part of
the conquistador, the stranger.

Last week, the Census Bureau reported that the nation's foreign-born population
is at its highest level since World War II. In California, the state with the
greatest number of immigrants, 25 percent of the population is foreign-born.

On the other hand, the United States is the pre-eminent world power, undisputed
cultural force, the inventor, the tongue, the glamour of the world. Should we
not expect to be the world's destination? Los Angeles has become the capital of
the world, the crossroads city. Rome. Alexandria. London.

Today's new Native Americans, the whites, the blonds, do not want anything to do
with such a destiny. Polls indicate that a majority of Americans think there are
already too many immigrants. Regarding illegal immigrants, particularly, there
is even less sympathy.

Today, the new Native Americans in the United States seem only afraid of the
future. They fuss, complain. A Mexican-American border patrolman in San Ysidro
whose job it is to protect our sovereign border from the feet of trespassing
adolescents, this man complains to me about Mexico - its dust, corruption,
poverty. His grandfather fled the Mexican Revolution; now Mexico keeps inching
northward.

But the patrolman should understand that borders are two-way affairs. For every
incursion by Mexico, the United States has moved southward, transforming the
politics of Mexico, the entertainment of Mexico, sending evangelical
missionaries, exporting pop despair.

Blacks in Watts will tell you that the new immigrants are taking their jobs,
raising rents in the neighborhood, transforming Watts from black to brown. The
hard truth is that foreign-born blacks from Miami to New York are out-performing
the native-born.

Peter Brimelow, an Englishman who became a Canadian, then an American, thinks
that there are too many immigrants in the United States. And he is more than
frank. In his recent book, "Alien Nation," Brimelow insists that America is
European in its culture and character and must remain so. Asians, meanwhile, are
becoming the predominant population at the nine campuses of the University of
California.

In New York and Washington, newspapers and networks still speak of a black and
white America, the old chessboard. A few blocks from where I live in San
Francisco, the Richmond district has filled with Russian and Chinese immigrants.
What is the nature of this Sino-Russian meeting?

Polls report that some percentage of black Americans thinks O.J. is innocent
while some other percentage of whites . . .

Meanwhile, at my neighborhood laundry, Korean owners work alongside their
Mexican workers. What sorts of tensions and new understandings are taking place
in the new America?

In the new America, Guatemalans are singing Lutheran hymns. Blond Native
Americans are retiring to Sedona, Arizona, to commune with pre-Columbian
spirits.

My barber jets off on a weekend tourist package to Costa Rica. Middle-class
tourism makes the once remote world accessible. Business people sit in front of
the plane headed for Jeddah or Djakarta. We Americans scorn the doddering
Chinese leaders who resist fax machines and cyberspace, clinging to the Great
Wall.

Ex-Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, meanwhile, in Washington heads a commission on
immigration. She promises reform. She assumes we will control the border. But
all over the world peasants are on the move - just like middle-class tourists
and the business class. Do we imagine that we can keep all the peasants of the
world under control?

Thai peasants labor in sweat shops in the very center of Los Angeles. It should
not surprise us. What was apparent on the TV screen during the 1992 riots was
that L.A. had become a Third World city. It looked like brown and black Panama
City on the screen. If that is shocking to you, then reform the world. Do not
expect to live in a world capital isolated from the world.

Yes, every day there are signs of breakdown. Separate cafeteria tables at the
local high school - skins, gays, surfers, Chicanos. Californians blame Chinese
immigrants for importing tuberculosis. Skinheads abandon California for Idaho -
the new reservation. We are in each other's face; we are on each other's mind.

But everywhere, too, there are signs of a new world forming. Children are being
born in Los Angeles (of two, three, four races) who look exactly like none of
their grandparents. They are beautiful children.

By the 18th century, the mixed-race Mexican, the mestizo, had become the
predominant population of Mexico, outnumbering the "pure" Indian or European.
Mexico, in that way, became the prophetic nation of the Americas.

It was Jose Vasconcelos, the Mexican philosopher, who celebrated Mexicans as "la
raza cosmica," the prophetic achievement of the Americas. In California now it
is happening. Africa is meeting Asia. America is discovering the Americas.
Indians are trespassing borders. The new Native Americans - blond, black, brown
- ponder the future.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Richard Rodriguez, author of "Days of Obligation," is a Pacific News Service
editor.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: ILLUSTRATION BY TIM BRINTON

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              161 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 24, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BILINGUALISM AND INSECURITY MAKING ENGLISH THE OFFICIAL LANGUAGE IS LARGELY AN
ISSUE OF POLITICS, NOT EDUCATION

BYLINE: Steven Thomma and Angie Cannon, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WHEN SENATE Majority Leader Bob Dole recently joined the call to make English
the country's official language, he tapped into a resurgent vein of insecurity
about immigrants that has troubled the country since its founding.
From before the American Revolution until today, Americans have periodically
worried that immigrants would maintain their own languages and split the United
States into a Babel-like collection of tribes.

That fear has manifested itself in periodic backlashes, from Benjamin Franklin's
warning that immigrants would never learn English, to World War I-era attempts
to ban the teaching of German.

Now comes the latest move, to make English the country's official language, to
require the government to print most of its documents in English and, in the
language war's biggest battleground, to ban bilingual education.

Though popular - three out of five Americans support the official-language idea
- the movement so far appears largely symbolic, a political salve.

Consider:

* Federal measures pending in Congress would prohibit foreign languages in
government documents but would not prohibit multilingual education.

* Many of the state laws or constitutional amendments are toothless. Florida,
for instance, amended its constitution in 1988 to make English the official
state language, but its Legislature has never followed up with the laws needed
to enforce it.

* Dole himself sends mixed signals, saying he wants to end multilingual
education, while also saying schools should continue programs to help immigrants
learn English. Education experts say that is precisely what bilingual education
does.

"This is an issue for politicians, but I don't think these laws will affect
anything," said Christine Rossell, a political-science professor at Boston
University who is writing a book on the language wars.

Not true, said Rep. Toby Roth, R-Wis., author of one of the English-language
proposals pending in Congress.

While his proposal would allow local school districts to continue bilingual
education, he said it would prohibit federal financing of bilingual education.
It also would require that all government forms, including ballots, be printed
only in English. It would not affect private businesses or private use of other
languages.

For Roth and others, the English-first movement is critical to the future of the
country.

For generations, he said, immigrants by choice or necessity learned English and
turned the United States into a "melting pot." Now, he worries that too many
immigrants can continue to speak their native languages in school, in stores and
in relations with the government.

"We want to keep our nation one nation, one people," he said. "We need to keep
our commonality, our common glue. We're losing that today, and we're losing it
quickly."

But many others say the English-only crusade is much ado about nothing.

Historian Arthur Schlesinger, who agrees that English is necessary to keep the
country united, disagrees that it is in trouble.

"More people in the world speak English today than ever before," he said. "The
notion that it's so on the defensive in the U.S. that it requires statutory
reinforcement seems ridiculous."

Rossell said the marketplace already has made English the official language.
Census figures show that 97 percent of Americans speak English "well" or "very
well."

In researching her book, Rossell found that Hispanic immigrants want to become
assimilated just like earlier waves of immigrants. She cited a Rand Corp. study
that showed most speak English by the third generation.

To those who question the need for bilingual education by arguing that previous
generations of immigrants didn't have such help, advocates say that few
immigrants in previous generations stayed in school very long - a high school
diploma was rare and wasn't necessary to find a job, said Laurie Olsen of
California Tomorrow, a non-profit group concerned about California's future as a
multicultural state.

Moreover, Lyons said previous generations did experience multilingual education,
at least until World War I.

"World War I and nativism killed off bilingual education," he said. "State after
state repealed their laws. Some states made it a crime for some teachers to
teach in a language other than English."

CHART: KNIGHT-RIDDER NEWS SERVICE
English spoken here
Sources: Census Bureau, Education Department, U.S. English
[950924 FR 29A 1; h. bar chart]

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              162 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                September 29, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SHAKING IMMIGRANTS OUT OF FEDERAL SAFETY NET A MEASURE IN SENATE WOULD BAR
NATURALIZED CITIZENS FROM BENEFIT PROGRAMS UNTIL THEY HAVE PAID TAXES FOR 10
YEARS

BYLINE: DE TRAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1297 words


Adolfo Bustos has always held a job during his seven years as a permanent
resident of the United States, either as a farm laborer or a machinist.

Through all the years, the 50-year-old Argentine immigrant has paid thousands of
dollars in taxes and Social Security.

But as he seeks to become a citizen next year, Bustos and thousands like him
could lose their eligibility for a variety of federal programs their taxes help
pay for. Immigrant-rights advocates say the restrictions would be unprecedented.

Under a little-noticed provision in the Immigrant Control and Financial
Responsibility Act, naturalized citizens would have to pay taxes for 10 years
before becoming eligible for 60 programs such as food stamps and Supplemental
Security Income. The bill has passed the Senate Judiciary Committee's
Subcommittee on Immigration and goes before the full committee next month.

Last week, the Senate passed a welfare reform bill that would deny a range of
federal benefits to naturalized citizens who haven't worked long enough to
qualify for Social Security - generally 10 years. Fewer benefits would be
curtailed, and the bill would apply only to immigrants arriving after its
passage. Still, President Clinton has indicated that he may sign the measure.

The proposals illustrate the ever-widening scope of Washington legislation to
control and restrict immigrants. First, Congress targeted government services to
illegal immigrants. Then, the House of Representatives took aim at permanent
residents, voting to deny them access to 60 programs, from welfare to
immunizations to school lunches. Now, the Senate is scrutinizing naturalized
citizens - immigrants who have lived here for at least five years, have
renounced their prior citizenship and have taken an oath to defend the U.S.
Constitution.

In an attempt to go even further, Rep. Elton Gallegly, R-Oxnard, has proposed a
constitutional revision directed at some native-born citizens. His proposal
would bar the children of illegal immigrants from obtaining U.S. citizenship,
something currently guaranteed under the Constitution's 14th Amendment.

The trend worries some immigrant advocates and public officials, who believe it
could devastate local government. Santa Clara County Supervisor Mike Honda said
immigrant-related cutbacks in the welfare bill could cost the county dearly.
"This is a prescription for disaster," he said.

Although the immigration proposal has attracted less attention than the welfare
reform initiatives, its impact would be far more sweeping.

If the federal government no longer provides naturalized citizens access to such
programs as Medicaid and Aid to Families with Dependent Children, state and
local governments will inherit huge new financial burdens. And though the
politics of immigration reform originated with California's Proposition 187,
this state would suffer the greatest cutbacks because one in three immigrants
lives here.

According to the Congressional Budget Office, the bill would cut about $11
billion from the federal budget in the next five years - half in California
alone. Nearly one in four state residents was foreign-born last year, more than
twice the national average.

Called deficit trimmer

The bill's sponsor, Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., touts his measure as a way to
reduce the federal budget deficit. He argues that immigration should not be an
automatic passport to U.S. entitlement programs, and says immigrants should pay
into the system before they reap its benefits.

"This approach is designed to follow on our long-held tradition that newcomers
to our country should be self-supporting," Simpson has said.

Supporters point out that naturalized citizens are already treated differently
than native-born citizens. They cannot occupy the Oval Office, for example, and
their citizenship can be taken away if they are found to have lied on their
application.

But the proposal would divide people not only on the basis of citizenship, but
also income. Single wage-earners who make less than $6,250 generally aren't
required to pay federal income taxes, so an immigrant could work decades at low
wages and still not qualify for federal benefits.

Immigration experts said it's too early to predict whether the bill will become
law. Simpson was the architect of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act,
and his new proposal emerged from the subcommittee on a 4-2 vote with the
backing of all three panel Republicans plus Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.
However, a Feinstein spokeswoman said the senator will attempt to remove the
provision next month. Feinstein was unsuccessful in her effort to similarly
amend the welfare reform bill. There is no similar measure in the House.

President Clinton has not commented specifically on the Simpson proposal,
although he has criticized the scapegoating of immigrants. But Attorney General
Janet Reno, testifying before a Senate subcommittee in June, raised concerns
about the consti tutionality of the proposals.

Janet Reno's concern

"I think it would be a mistake to begin to relegate naturalized citizens to kind
of another status," she said. "I had the opportunity . . . to stand at Ellis
Island, where my father had entered in 1912, and I wouldn't like him to have
been treated different."

Critics not only say the proposals are discriminatory and unconstitutional, but
they also worry that they would encourage social separatism.

"Not since the days when we abolished slavery have we had two classes of
citizens," said Christopher Ryan, an aide to Sen. Paul Simon, who voted against
the Simpson bill. "It violates the spirit of citizenship."

Opponents say the proposals remind them of previous chapters in U.S. history
when ethnic citizens were made scapegoats: the internment of German-, Italian-
and Japanese-Americans during World War II and the deportation of native-born
Mexican-Americans during the Great Depression.

"I can't see any positive from it whatsoever. . . . It divides our society,"
said Lina Avidan of the Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights and Services
in San Francisco. "It highlights our differences rather than our commonality."

To Norman Matloff, however, the proposals are an attempt to close a loophole
that immigrants have been using to mooch off the system.

Matloff, the son of a Lithuanian immigrant, lived in a Latino Los Angeles
neighborhood as a youth, speaks Mandarin and Cantonese, is married to a Hong
Kong immigrant and considers himself a liberal Democrat.

Yet the University of California, Davis computer science professor thinks
current immigration levels are hurting the United States. Two years ago, he
produced a study that showed despite their "model minority" image and political
conservatism, 55 percent of elderly Chinese were on welfare, mostly Supplemental
Security Income. Among elderly Vietnamese immigrants, the figure was 74 percent,
compared to 21 percent of Mexican immigrants and 9 percent of native-born
elderly.

Persuasive testimony

Matloff's May testimony to Congress was instrumental in persuading the House to
ban most welfare benefits to non-citizens.

"We've got immigrants in Palo Alto at the top 5 percent of family income, and
they've got their parents on welfare, on SSI," Matloff said. "At the same time,
we have welfare reform bills pending that are going to push illiterate black
single mothers out into the street . . . It offends my sense of equity."

To K.C. McAlpin, deputy director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, the proposals simply make good on the "contract the immigrants made with
the United States."

"It enforces a promise made by them when they entered the country that they will
not become a burden on the United States," McAlpin said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: BENEFITS UNDER FIRE
Under S 269, naturalized citizens would be barred from access to many federal
programs unless they've paid taxes for 10 years. Among the programs affected
are:
* Aid to Families with Dependent Children
* Child care, job training and loans for college students
* Food stamps
* Immunizations
* Medicaid
* School lunches
* Supplemental Security IncomeMercury News Staff Writer Steve Johnson
contributed to this article.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN - MERCURY NEWS
Santa Clara machinist Adolfo Bustos would be affected by the bill working its
way through the Senate.
[950929 FR 10A ]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 5, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POPE STRESSES TOLERANCE FOR POOR, IMMIGRANTS 5-DAY U.S. VISIT BEGINS WITH
CLINTON GREETING

BYLINE: Angie Cannon, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, N.J.


Under gray skies and light rain, Pope John Paul II arrived in the United States
on Wednesday for a five-day visit and said America must not turn its back on
immigrants and the poor.

At Newark International Airport, the 75-year-old pontiff, wearing white robes, a
skullcap and a gold cross, was greeted by President Clinton, first lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton and a congregation of political and religious dignitaries.

At a time when immigration and programs for the poor are under fire, the pope
said the United States had been a haven for new arrivals for generations.

"Men, women and children have streamed here from every corner of the globe,
building new lives and forming a society of rich ethnic and racial diversity
based on commitment to a shared vision of your dignity and freedom," said the
pontiff, who is making his fourth trip to the United States.

"It is my prayerful hope that America will persevere in its own best traditions
of openness and opportunity. It would indeed be sad if the United States were to
turn away from that enterprising spirit which has always showed the most
practical and responsible ways of continuing to share with others the blessings
God has richly bestowed here."

The pope said the American spirit of generosity would help meet the needs of the
poor, who he said have an important role to play in building society.

"The poor have needs which are not only material and economic, but also involve
liberating their potential to work out their own destiny and to provide for the
well-being of their families and communities," he said forcefully in his thick
Polish accent.

"America will continue to be a land of promise as long as it remains a land of
freedom and justice for all."

Clinton's greeting at the airport also had political overtones as he called for
public policies that support families - at a time when conservative
congressional Republicans are slowing down spending on welfare, education and
funds for the elderly.

"If we value our families, we must let them know the dignity of work with decent
wages," said Clinton. "If we value our families, we must care for them across
the generations from the oldest to the youngest."

At the airport, nearly 2,000 Catholic schoolchildren waved yellow-and-white
papal flags to welcome the pontiff.

"It's basically a once-in-a-lifetime experience," declared eighth-grader Caitlin
Pantos, 13. "A lot of people I know would die to see the pope."

After the arrival ceremony, which included a band playing the Vatican anthem and
"The Star-Spangled Banner," Clinton and the pope went to the home of Archbishop
Theodore McCarrick at Sacred Heart Cathedral in a poor section of Newark for a
private meeting.

During their 30-minute talk, which White House aides later described as "very
cordial," the president and the pope discussed issues of mutual concern,
primarily the Bosnian war. "We have to make peace there," the pope told Clinton.

After the one-on-one meeting, Hillary Clinton joined the president and the pope
and the Clintons attended the vespers evening prayer service inside the
cathedral, which was filled with about 2,500 people, including many beaming
cloistered nuns.

The pope, who is scheduled to give a major address at the United Nations today
on its 50th anniversary, said the ideals that launched the worldwide
organization were "more indispensable than ever in a world searching for
purpose."

During his visit, John Paul also will preside over public Masses at Giants
Stadium in New Jersey, Central Park in New York and Camden Yards baseball
stadium in Baltimore.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Political and religious dignitaries witnessed the arrival Wednesday of Pope John
Paul II at Newark International Airport in New Jersey.
[951005 FR 9A 1]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 8, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TIGHTEN THE LIMITS ON LEGAL IMMIGRATION

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6F

LENGTH: 345 words


Joanne Jacobs, in a strange column on Sept. 21, says "legal immigration isn't
broken" but then describes two ways to fix it: end the immigration priority for
siblings of citizens and legal residents, and hold sponsors of immigrants
legally liable for providing the support they promise.

Her column clearly shows that legal immigration is broken. Unfortunately, Jacobs
avoids mentioning the even more important broken parts of our immigration
policy. Our current policy, which in recent years has allowed close to a million
legal immigrants per year, has increased welfare costs substantially, put
tremendous pressure on the working poor and caused major increases in population
(with attendant increase in environmental problems).

In 1970, 6.7 percent of all welfare cash payments went to immigrants. By 1990,
13.1 percent. In 1990, 36.7 percent of the legal immigrants had not finished
high school, compared to 14.7 percent of citizens. This means that the least
educated among us now have fierce competition for the limited number of
available jobs. No wonder the despair in our poorest neighborhoods increases.

Millions of citizens, concerned about the environment and over-population, have
limited their family size. Instead of the country achieving close to a stable
population size, the vast numbers of legal immigrants have made the United
States the fastest growing industrialized country on earth. Not only have
millions of immigrants come to the United States in the last two decades, but on
average, immigrants have larger families than native citizens. Immigrants since
1970 and their descendants account for a population growth of about 30 million
people.

At the time of the last big wave of immigration - during the first decade of
this century - the country's population was less than 100 million, now it is
over 260 million. From 1820 to 1965 the number of legal immigrants averaged less
than 300,000 annually. Our country is much more crowded now, it is time to limit
legal immigration to 200,000 per year.

- John Mitchem
San Jose

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: GEORGE REBH
[951008 ED 6F 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              165 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 10, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CUBA CONTACT MORE EXPOSURE TO THE WEST WILL UNDERMINE CASTRO'S REGIME

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 384 words


ACCORDING to modern political and economic calculus, the best way to convince
Cuban President Fidel Castro to accelerate political and economic change would
be for the United States to drop its 34-year-old embargo on trade with Cuba.
With a presidential election on the horizon, no politician has the courage to
follow the new political math.

President Clinton, for one, isn't ready to drop the trade embargo. He's going to
enforce it more vigorously. But unlike Republicans, he is promoting more human
contacts. Clinton will allow U.S. news media to open bureaus in Cuba and more
Americans to travel to Cuba for "educational, religious and human rights
purposes."

Clinton's trying to head off Republicans from Congress who want to tighten
restrictions on both trade and travel. Instead, the president is implementing
part of the proven model for breaking down totalitarian regimes. The model holds
that increasing the flow of information and people across a closed border tends
to undermine authoritarianism. It worked in Eastern Europe. It probably will
work in Cuba.

Republicans are trying to impress voters in Florida and New Jersey,
where most Cuban-Americans live. Clinton, more sensibly, is trying to impress
businesses eager to taste the rich opportunities they see in Cuba, which
companies from other countries are lapping up. He's already done the right thing
on immigration, expanding opportunities for Cubans to immigrate legally while
stanching last year's frantic immigration-by-flotilla.

Imagine the effect of more U.S. citizens in Cuba. Maybe Cubans won't be
impressed that the average American has running water, heat, a car, cheap gas,
plus a McDonald's or K-Mart nearby. Maybe Cubans who hear more about the United
States will nevertheless salute Castro, smile as they scrounge the black market
for medicine, and quit grumbling about crowded public buses and expensive gas.

Maybe, but probably not.

Castro, proving he can spot a Trojan horse, hasn't yet agreed to let news
bureaus in. He did accept a visit by nearly 50 U.S. business executives.

Cuba's economy is recovering, thanks to two years of limited free-market
reforms. Castro's reluctance to open his economy and society any further only
proves that Clinton's political and economic calculus is correct.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIALS

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 12, 1995 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GOP IMMIGRATION BILL EASILY SURVIVES ATTACK

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 120 words


Republicans easily defeated Democratic attempts Wednesday to dramatically weaken
a GOP-backed bill that would trim legal immigration by up to 25 percent. The
vote in the House Judiciary Committee to strip most restrictions on legal
immigration from a bill designed to get tough with illegal immigrants failed on
a largely party-line vote, 20-14.

"The issue of legal immigration is vastly different than illegal immigration and
trying to rush through a complete revamping of these laws could come back to
haunt us," said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose, who supported the defeated plan.
The bill would reduce the number of legal immigrants from the 800,000 who came
to the United States in 1994 to 595,000 by 2001.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                October 14, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TEEN AVOIDS BEING DEPORTED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 481 words

DATELINE: FRESNO


A teen-ager facing deportation to his native Africa returned to an all-American
life Friday after public outcry led to his release from a Los Angeles jail.

Omotayo Daniel's plight began last week when his foster family said they could
no longer afford to raise the 16-year-old Atwater High sophomore.

When social workers discovered Omotayo was an illegal immigrant, they turned him
over to U.S. Border Patrol agents. He spent nearly a week in a Los Angeles
immigration cell and was beaten by other juvenile inmates.

'I felt helpless'

"I felt helpless because my life was in the hands of people who didn't even know
me," Omotayo said in a telephone interview while driving back from Los Angeles
to the San Joaquin Valley. "I think they just handled it like it was a normal
case."

But his case is anything but normal. The soft-spoken Nigerian teen-ager was
brought to New York by his mother when he was 6. She returned to Nigeria and has
not been heard from since.

The threat of being deported terrified Omotayo, who speaks only English and
remembers little about his native land.

"I don't have anybody there," he said. "I don't know anything about that place.
They might as well just put me in Japan. It would be the same thing. How could I
survive?"

Just doing their job

Immigration officials said they were just doing their job when they detained
him. But they admitted Omotayo's case is different.

"This juvenile is not at all a danger to society," Border Patrol Assistant Chief
Alan Dwelley said. "He's obviously not an undesirable type at all."

After he was taken into custody, Omotayo was taken first to Fresno and then to
Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters in Los Angeles. He had to
wear a gray jumpsuit and was handcuffed outside his cell.

While in his cell, he was beaten by fellow inmates when he told them he had not
committed any crimes. But Omotayo was not allowed to leave because he could not
afford his $2,000 bail.

Sacramento attorney Glenn Peterson, who read Omotayo's story in a newspaper
Wednesday, was outraged.

"What a huge miscarriage of justice that only $2,000 stands between this kid and
his freedom," Peterson said.

It took Peterson two days to arrange Omotayo's release, which Rep. Gary Condit,
D-Ceres, helped secure after receiving calls from outraged Atwater High students
and other Californians.

Hopes to study medicine

Peterson drove 380 miles from Sacramento to Los Angeles on Thursday to pick up
Omotayo, a straight-A student who listens to classical music and hopes to study
medicine in college.

Omotayo was released on his own recognizance and must appear at an INS hearing
in San Francisco Dec. 4 to determine whether he will be deported.

Meanwhile, he will stay with a foster parent in Atwater. He was looking forward
to returning to school and attending a football game and dance.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 16, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BATTLE OVER BILINGUALISM IN NATION DOMINATED BY ENGLISH, OTHER TONGUES BRING
PRIDE, SCORN

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1211 words


Watching the zany antics of television cartoons, Thanh Phan Duong shrieked and
clapped even though she couldn't understand a word that was being said.

At age 2, Thanh knows only Vietnamese because her parents, who speak fluent
English, have decided to use exclusively Vietnamese at home.

It's a choice linguistics experts say growing numbers of immigrant families are
making out of zeal to preserve their heritage at a time when the push to declare
English the official national language is gaining momentum in Congress and among
Republican presidential hopefuls.

Such critics argue that parents should teach their children the one language
that will help them succeed in the United States - English. They cite studies
showing that teaching children a language other than English first may stunt
their English literacy.

But local immigrant parents who teach their children in a foreign tongue seem to
disagree. Whether it is Spanish, Laotian or Chinese, they say speaking their
native language improves communication in their homes and builds pride in
minority cultures.

The two sides claim to have the same goal: what's good for the kids. However,
this goal often is lost in a debate as fiery as those over immigration and race.

The long-standing battle over language intensified in August when a Texas
district judge told a Mexican-American mother that speaking only Spanish at home
constituted abuse to her 5-year-old daughter. The judge later apologized after
being severely criticized by Hispanic groups, but the incident left many
immigrant parents stinging.

Then, Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole called for recognition of
English as the official language of the United States.

And later this month, Congress is expected to open hearings on a bill mandating
that most federal government services and documents be in English.

In Santa Clara County, where 1990 census figures show that 32 percent of
residents speak a foreign language at home, the latest controversies have left
some immigrant families feeling attacked.

2 are better than 1

"It's silly to say that it's wrong for a child to speak two languages," said
Rosa Mercado, 32, a Mexican immigrant who taught her three children Spanish
before English. "My children are going to go further in life because they can
speak two languages. Besides, how else are they going to speak to their parents
and grandparents?"

Adults who speak two languages often are presented with more employment and
social opportunities than people who speak only English. But many bilingual
children are teased mercilessly in school for being unable to speak English
well.

A six-year nationwide study of 2,000 bilingual children published in 1992 by the
U.S. Department of Education found that such children also may experience
problems with literacy in early grades, according to the study's author,
researcher David Ramirez, a professor at California State University, Long
Beach.

His study showed that bilingual children bound for English-only classrooms did
indeed fall behind their English-only counterparts in reading and math skills.
Conversely, those who were taught in both English and another language had
English-literacy levels and math skills equal to or higher than children who
spoke English only, Ramirez said.

"If you want your kids to develop English literacy, the best way to do that is
to really develop their primary language skills," argued Ramirez, who directs
the Center for Language Minority Education and Research. "Once you learn to read
in your primary language, it's much easier to learn to read in another
language."

Of more than 1.2 million students in California schools with limited English
proficiency - about 23.6 percent of the state's students - roughly half are in
bilingual programs that teach the core curriculum in English and the child's
native language, said Edda Caraballo, a bilingual education consultant for the
state Department of Education.

But another 50 percent of children with limited English proficiency are expected
to "sink or swim" in English-only classes that may cause them to fall behind in
their studies, she said.

Faltering in school

"The result is kids who have good social English but who can't compete
academically," Caraballo said.

Groups that want to make English the nation's official language agree that
bilingual students often suffer, but, they say, it's for all the opposite
reasons. They say U.S. schools should teach English only.

"Immigrant children sitting in failed bilingual education programs are costing
this country its future," said Jim Boulet Jr., executive director of English
First, a lobbying group in Virginia that wants to put an end to bilingual
education and make English the official language. "English is the language of
this country. It opens the doors of opportunity. And it needs to be emphasized
in school."

San Jose Unified School District - in which the number of students with limited
English proficiency has shot from 4,045 to 7,625 in the past 10 years as overall
enrollment has remained constant - does not encourage immigrants to teach their
children English at home, said Catalina B. Milligan, the district's parent
liaison.

When Milligan, 42, daughter of Mexican immigrants, went to San Jose schools in
the '60s, her mother was encouraged to speak English at home after years of
speaking Spanish exclusively.

"Luckily, my mother did not follow that advice," said Milligan, who speaks
Spanish. "As a bilingual child, you understand the world of your parents. You
understand your culture. That enriches your person. It makes you much more of a
whole person. You're able to use those skills to contribute to society more
fully."

And yet Milligan, who was placed in English-only classrooms, concedes that it
took her until sixth grade to catch up to her English-only classmates in
literacy. And many of her bilingual friends gave up on school altogether.

'Definite obstacles'

"There are definite obstacles to overcome," she said. "If you are weak, you are
going to have a tough time."

Some of those difficulties come in the form of teasing from English-speaking
classmates who taunt bilingual children endlessly, Caraballo said.

"Their self-esteem has been dismantled because their language of expression is
something other than English," she said. "There is always a stigma placed on
them. The primary language is hardly ever seen as an asset. It takes years to
overcome the damage done by that."

Angie Markolefas, 35, a Greek-American from San Jose, is attempting to soothe
her 8-year-old son's embarrassment about speaking Greek by building pride in his
culture. She has enrolled Filip in two-hour weekly Greek classes, and the boy is
part of a Greek dancing troupe.

The results have been mixed, she said. While he is far ahead of his classmates
in English literacy and math skills, he has stopped speaking Greek at home. She
continues speaking Greek exclusively at home and hopes Filip's avoidance of it
is a passing phase.

"It's something that happened with me, too, when I was young," Markolefas said.
"I felt like a minority if I spoke back to my mom in Greek. By the time I was 13
or 14, it didn't bother me to speak Greek anymore. I was proud."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAT WEST - MERCURY NEWS
Anh Phan, right, with Thanh, 2, who speaks only Vietnamese.
[951016 FR 1A 3; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  October 20, 1995 Friday PENINSULA/AM EDITION

INS ARRESTS 58 WORKERS IN RAID TWO-MONTH PROBE: A HALF MOON BAY NURSERY IS
TARGETED IN AN INVESTIGATION OF THE USE OF FORGED WORK PERMITS.

BYLINE: ALAN GATHRIGHT, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 603 words


Immigration agents raided one of Half Moon Bay's largest nurseries Thursday,
arresting 58 workers as part of an investigation into forged work documents.

The arrests of the men and women, most of whom were Mexican nationals,
culminated a two-month investigation of employees using fraudulent work permits
at Nurseryman's Exchange Inc., said Thomas J. Schiltgen, director of the U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

About 80 INS and Border Patrol agents entered four nursery sites, including one
with 50 acres of greenhouses and Quonset huts. Residents reported seeing INS
vans with tinted windows rolling down Highway 1 as California Highway Patrol
officers assisted.

Employees answering the phone at Nurseryman's Exchange refused any comment.

Schiltgen said those arrested were being processed at an undisclosed location.
Individuals who voluntarily return to their native country could be bused home
as early as today. Those seeking immigration hearings will be taken to Alameda
County's Santa Rita Jail in Pleasanton.

Schiltgen said the investigation is continuing and would not speculate about
whether fines may be levied against Nurseryman's Exchange, 2651 N. Cabrillo
Highway. Employers can be fined $1,000 for each unauthorized worker for failing
to verify their identity and employment eligibility, and sanctions can climb to
$10,000 for each worker if the employer is convicted of repeated and willful
violations.

Forged work documents are a widespread problem, according to the INS, which
Thursday announced a contract for $275 million worth of counterfeit-proof work
permits, green cards and other documents.

Employers are in a bind when it comes to checking work documents, according to
Jack Olson of the San Mateo County Farm Bureau. Questioning employees too
closely opens growers to discrimination complaints. But they face penalties if
their employees are caught with forged documents, he said.

In the year ending Sept. 30, 1995, the San Francisco INS office issued fines
against 31 Northern California employers. The highest fine was $15,300 against a
large home improvement store.

The raid Thursday was a rare one in San Mateo County's $165 million nursery
industry, and it hit Nurseryman's Exchange with a dire labor shortage just as
growers are readying plants for the big holiday season.

"Most of the greenhouse operations hire workers year-round, and they don't use
very many seasonal workers like some agricultural operations," said Ann King,
the local farm adviser at University of California Cooperative Extension. "So
losing any of their labor is going to impact them. Nursery crops are perishable,
just like food crops, so if it's not harvested and sold when it's matured
they're going to lose it."

There are about 3,200 farmworkers in San Mateo County, according to the 1992
agricultural census by the U.S. Department of Commerce. And flower-nursery crops
account for 77 percent of the county's $214 million in agricultural sales.

But the raid's impact rippled beyond dollars and cents.

At Half Moon Bay schools, officials were allowed to check a list of those
arrested to ensure that the parents of kindergartners weren't being held.

"Kindergartners get out earlier in the day, and we didn't want any children sent
home if there wasn't going to be a parent there," said Jane Martin,
superintendent of the Cabrillo Unified School District.

The only incident that may have been raid-related was at a middle school, where
about six children left early from classes. Aside from that, Martin said, "There
was nothing unusual."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 20, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS PLANS HIGH-SECURITY CARDS TO DETER FORGERY OF WORK AND RESIDENCY PERMITS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 206 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Federal officials are fighting the counterfeiting of immigration documents with
a new technology that should make it harder to crank out fake work permits,
green cards and other papers.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday signed a three-year
contract valued at up to $275 million with a Virginia company that will
implement a new automated system to produce immigration documents.

The new credit-card-sized documents, made of hard plastic that cannot be peeled
back to allow for alteration, will have holograms, high-resolution photographs,
fingerprints and other security devices to deter counterfeiters from forging
papers.

"This contract is vital to our efforts to combat the widespread use of
fraudulent documents," said INS Deputy Commissioner Chris Sale.

Under the new system developed by Information Spectrum Inc. of Annandale, Va.,
INS early next year will begin production of new employment-authorization
documents.

If the first cards prove successful, within two years the INS should begin using
the same process to issue resident registration documents, known as green cards,
as well as border-crossing cards used by Canadians and Mexicans who cross
frequently into the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 October 22, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MELTING POT HIGH SCHOOL WIDE ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN A SACRAMENTO SUBURB 200 RECENT
ARRIVALS LEARN U.S. SCHOOL LIFE

BYLINE: Ann Bancroft, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 393 words

DATELINE: NORTH HIGHLANDS


In teacher Vladimir Gavrilov's math class, 23 high school students from 10
countries worked to learn fractions.

Gavrilov, a physicist who taught graduate students in Latvia before coming to
the United States two years ago, explained his chalkboard calculations in
heavily accented English.

When one student asked a question in Russian, he responded in that language,
switching back to English to admonish a noisy Armenian boy to "sit down. Your
discipline is bad."

Meanwhile, two girls from Mien tribes in Laos helped a newcomer from Vietnam,
and a Panamanian boy chatted in rapid Spanish to his seat mates from Mexico.

Amid the tract houses of suburban Sacramento, this school has students from 30
countries speaking a total of 24 languages.

The formal name is Highlands High School. But you could call it Melting Pot
High.

Highlands High, where the mascot is the Scot, has 1,407 students, including
immigrants from Russia, Ukraine, Laos, Vietnam, Thailand, Romania, Japan, the
Middle East, Panama, Samoa, Moldova, Mexico, India and the Philippines.

About 200 recent arrivals to the United States are taught with the help of aides
and fellow Highlands students to deal with the academic and social rigors of
high school.

The diversity at Highlands High is unusual, said Norm Gold, manager for
bilingual compliance for the state Department of Education, because in most
schools, one or two foreign languages predominate.

The fast-growing Sacramento area became popular with immigrants because of its
mild climate and lower cost of living compared with the Los Angeles and San
Francisco areas, said Minh Pham, bilingual counselor at the school.

"Many of these students have suffered a great deal, and for most, coming here is
a super shock," said Jerry Soto, chairman of the school's English as a Second
Language Department.

"Mien students come from a culture with no written language, no educational
background whatsoever, and are thrown into high school," Soto said.

"Russian students come with a very different concept of freedom than what we're
used to," he said, "and they test and challenge authority."

Parents from some cultures, he said, expect school authorities to provide more
discipline than is legally or customarily practiced.

The school sponsors a multicultural club and performances of native dances and
music.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO:
At left, Cheng Saechao, a junior at Highlands High, studies an English-language
magazine in class.
[951022 CA 3B 1]
PHOTO: Below, Charles and Ruby Smith demonstrate Philippine dancing at a
lunch-hour cultural event.
[951022 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 4, 1995 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SURVEY REVEALS THAT IMMIGRANTS LEARN AND EARN

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 420 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Immigrants to Southern California quickly learn English and do not constitute an
economic burden, according to a study released Friday.

Contrary to recent claims by anti-immigration advocates, foreigners who move
here "do not remain unassimilated and unchanged. Indeed, the speed of
immigrants' upward mobility is striking - reflecting their rapid incorporation
into the American economy and society," said study author Dowell Myers, a
demographer at the University of Southern California.

The yearlong survey tracked immigrants representing more than 5 percent of
Southern California's population. According to Myers, it is the most
comprehensive study ever completed in California.

Using 1980 and 1990 census data, Myers tracked the progress of immigrants who
arrived in the 1970s from Asia, Mexico, Europe and the Middle East.

Key findings among men ages 25 to 34 in 1980:

* English-speaking ability rose from 62 percent in 1980 to 80 percent in 1990
among European and Middle Eastern immigrants. U.S. citizenship rates climbed
from 10 percent to 51 percent. Poverty rates dropped from 19 percent to 6
percent.

* Among Asians, English-speakers grew from 39 percent in 1980 to 53 percent a
decade later. The percentage who became American citizens ballooned from 15
percent to 67 percent. The number in poverty - 17 percent to 6 percent.

* Hispanics: English proficiency increased from 13 percent in 1980 to 21 percent
in 1990. U.S. citizenship rose from 9 percent to 21 percent. The poverty rate
dropped from 21 percent in 1980 to 18 percent in 1990.

Younger immigrants had better chances for personal and economic improvement, the
study showed.

For example, only about one-third of Southern California Hispanic immigrants
between the ages of 5 and 14 spoke English proficiently in 1980. But by 1990,
when that group was 10 years older, nearly 70 percent had mastered the language.
Another finding showed that almost one-third of Asian men in their late teens
and early 20s were living in poverty in 1980. Ten years later, their poverty
levels had fallen to about 6 percent.

The results contrast with recent California efforts to limit public services to
immigrants, who activists claim drain vital resources while creating disparate,
non-English speaking communities.

The study describes assimilation as "adjustment, integration and advancement
over time."

Myers noted that Hispanic immigrants tend to arrive poorer and with less
schooling, hence their lag behind other ethnic groups.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 10, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OFFICIALS SEEK KINDER, GENTLER INS IMMIGRATION AGENCY GOES TO THE PEOPLE

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 670 words


The Portuguese flags, statue of the Virgin of Fatima and 3-D picture of the pope
were hardly what you'd expect from the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But on Thursday, INS citizenship examiners set up shop among the religious and
cultural artifacts at Newark's Portuguese American Cultural Center as part of an
ongoing project to show a kinder, gentler side of the often-dreaded agency.

This was the third time since October that naturalization officers have left the
long lines and drab surroundings of INS's San Francisco district headquarters to
conduct citizenship interviews in the home turf of their applicants.

The pilot project - which also is being tested in Chicago and Los Angeles -
probably will not come to San Jose because there aren't sufficient local
resources to do it, said Tim Murray of San Jose's INS office. But San
Francisco's office - which handles applicants for most of the Peninsula and East
Bay - has gotten rave reviews from community groups and INS employees and plans
to expand its program in the coming months.

"People don't feel as anxious," said INS examiner Linda Fernandez, who used her
lunch hour to visit a Portuguese store down the block from the cultural center.
"It's a nice change for us, and I think people appreciate it."

The price of greater intimacy is that examiners process only half as many
applications as they would normally handle at INS offices. David Still,
naturalizations director for the San Francisco INS, said the good will
engendered by the program makes up for the slower pace.

For the INS, the public relations gesture couldn't come at a better time.
Community groups complained earlier this year that INS offices were not prepared
for the stampede of citizenship applications they've been receiving. Nationwide,
the number of applications doubled in some offices, due in part to the mandatory
renewal of most residency cards and to a wave of government proposals aimed at
restricting the rights of legal and illegal immigrants.

In September, the INS increased funding for those offices experiencing mammoth
caseloads of citizenship applications. The San Francisco office doubled its
staff of citizenship examiners to 20, using some of the additional personnel to
reach out to community groups helping immigrants become citizens.

The applicants processed Thursday were aided by Bernadine and Lionel Goularte,
retired teachers whose volunteerism has helped more than 1,000 immigrants become
citizens.

When many of the 50 people who were interviewed Thursday arrived for their
appointments, they were greeted with hugs from the Goulartes.

"Ready to be a citizen?" Lionel Goularte chirped, taking Oscar and Lydia
Rivera's application and directing them to the INS examiner's office. "No reason
to be nervous. It will just take a few minutes."

The Goulartes, who direct the cultural center's citizenship project, said they
were thrilled that the INS wanted to come to their offices.

"A lot of people get intimidated by going to the INS office," said Lionel
Goularte, 70, of Fremont. "It's crowded, and they feel like a number. But here,
people feel much more at ease. They're still nervous, but at least they are in a
familiar, friendly setting."

Still, the outreach surprises some applicants. One Fremont woman said she first
drove to San Francisco on Thursday because she couldn't believe that examiners
would come to the nearby cultural center.

"It's hard for people to get it in their heads that the INS is reaching out to
them," Lionel Goularte said.

Maria De Sousa, 65, of San Leandro, said the new program proved to her that the
INS was trying to convert its image as a cold-hearted government agency.

She said having the large statue of the Virgin of Fatima, the patron saint of
Portugal, in the same building where she was taking her test gave her added
confidence.

"I felt like she was watching over me," said De Sousa, an immigrant from the
Azores Islands who passed her 10-question citizenship test.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: RON BURDA - MERCURY NEWS
INS examiner Linda Fernandez works with citizen-to-be Carlos Ulloa.
[951110 LO 1B 3]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 12, 1995 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

VIOLENCE LEADS MANY ISRAELIS TO RE-EXAMINE IMMIGRATION MILITANTS: BUT ATTEMPTS
TO KEEP OUT EXTREMISTS COULD CLASH WITH 'LAW OF RETURN.'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Yitzhak Rabin's assassination has caused debate over a question many Israelis
have resisted facing: Should the Jewish state restrict immigration?

Proponents of limiting Jewish immigration to Israel note that some of those
encouraging violence against Rabin and his government came to Israel from
abroad, especially the United States.

A high-ranking Israeli security official, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said Saturday that the two countries plan to cooperate in closer surveillance of
Jewish extremists in the wake of the prime minister's murder.

Rabin's confessed assassin, 25-year-old Yigal Amir, is an Israeli who insists he
acted alone. He said he was acting on orders from God because Rabin was trading
land for peace.

Conspiracy alleged

Police believe he was part of a right-wing conspiracy and have linked some of
his alleged accomplices to groups that follow the anti-Arab teachings of Rabbi
Meir Kahane, the Brooklyn-born founder of the militant Jewish Defense League who
was murdered in New York in 1990.

The security official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Kahane followers
and other militants had been operating military training camps in the United
States.

They have also bought weapons and other military equipment - including silencers
- that would be difficult to purchase on the open market in Israel, the official
said.

Many Israeli politicians say Jewish political extremists also raise funds in the
United States. The Israeli consul general in New York, Colette Avital, disclosed
Thursday that right-wing Jewish groups in the United States were raising money
for Amir.

On the other hand, representatives of several major American Jewish
organizations emphasized that only a small number of American Jews involved in
politics in Israel are extremists. They expressed concern that the accusations
of extremism tend to unfairly tar Americans Jews engaged in legitimate dissent.

Environment Minister Yossi Sarid said Saturday that Israel should keep lists of
militants and refuse them entry, even if it conflicts with the "Law of Return"
under which all Jews can immigrate and are entitled to immediate citizenship.

"If the Law of Return is meant to force the state of Israel to accept these
awful people, then the law must be changed," Sarid was quoted as saying by
Israel army radio. "They must never set foot on the soil of Israel."

Bar extremists

Uri Gordon, head of the immigration department of the semi-official Jewish
Agency, also proposed that Jews with extremist views be barred from the country,
Israel radio said.

Gordon said Kahane's Jewish Defense League was the forerunner of the Israeli
extremist groups Kach and Kahane Chai. Several of the suspects held in Rabin's
assassination are members of a Kach offshoot, Eyal.

"We have to examine whether the Law of Return is really suitable for the reality
of today," Gordon said.

Changing the law would be a sensitive undertaking, opening up a debate on the
definition of who is a Jew. One of Israel's main purposes since its founding has
been the drawing together of Jews.

Immigrant Absorption Minister Yair Tzaban said Saturday there was no need to
amend the law, noting that it contained a clause empowering the government to
reject a potential immigrant if he or she posed a threat to public safety.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Washington Post contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                November 21, 1995 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLASSES CATER TO IMMIGRANTS;
RESTAURATEUR FROM TAIWAN TELLS WOMEN WHAT SHE HAS LEARNED

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 512 words


Before becoming a successful San Jose restaurateur, Daisy Chu was like many
women who have immigrated here from Taiwan.

A homemaker unable to speak English, she spent her days in the kitchen or in
front of the TV, wondering what more there was to life here, as her husband
trooped off to his job each day.

But her eyes were opened after she enrolled in English classes, worked as an
accountant, then opened the Ocean Harbor Chinese Restaurant with her husband,
Kansen. Now, Chu wants to make it easier for women like herself to make their
way in a new culture.

Last year, she started the Chinese American Woman's Workshop, a volunteer
organization that holds seminars every other week to teach Chinese immigrant
women everything from car maintenance to basic computer skills to the best ways
to give a compliment.

"Most of these women don't speak English," said Chu, 45, who left Taiwan in
1977. "Most have very successful husbands, so they don't have to work. They just
stay home all day. I hope they can get more involved in the community through
this and see more of the outside world."

A quarter of the foreign-born Chinese in Santa Clara County are from Taiwan,
according to a 1992 survey. So far, the fledgling all-volunteer group, whose
members pay $10 a year, has attracted about 40 women to its meetings.

The workshops, given in Mandarin, are usually held at the restaurant on South
Winchester Boulevard or at the Chinese American Cultural Center in Sunnyvale.
Upcoming topics include flower arranging on Jan. 5; plumbing on Jan. 19;
relationships between Asian men and women on Feb. 2; Medicare information on
Feb. 16; beauty tips on March 1; and a cooking class on March 15.

The group also plans to conduct a food drive during Chinese New Year for the
Second Harvest Food Bank. Last year, members raised 24 tons of food in 20 days,
Chu said.

Tina Chang, 46, of Cupertino, who came from Taiwan three years ago with her
doctor husband, admits she didn't know how to turn on a computer before
attending the workshops. But now, she can toss around the term "CD ROM" in
conversations and remind her children to save what's on their screen before they
leave their computer.

She said her husband is thrilled about her participation because she can pass on
what she learns to him.

"Coming here is so meaningful," Chang said. "I get new knowledge and new
friends."

Linda Hu, 47, of Los Altos, a former accountant who came here from Taiwan 20
years ago, said the workshops are particularly helpful because they teach skills
that women may never have had to learn in their homeland.

For instance, she said, women there typically never deal with finances or car
maintenance, leaving those tasks to their parents, husbands or relatives. In
Taiwan, people also pay for their purchases in cash. Here, they learn how to use
credit cards and personal checks - safer alternatives than carrying cash around.

"You learn a lot of basic things about society here," she said. "The workshops
teach us to be more independent and to help each other."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
For more information on the Chinese American Woman's Workshop, which usually
meets every other week from 10 a.m. to noon, call Daisy Chu at (408) 243-3366.
For information in Mandarin, call Elaine Hom at (408) 252-7070.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: MERI SIMON - MERCURY NEWS
Daisy Chu helps women become familiar with their new culture.
[951121 LO 1B 4; color]

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 27, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS USING HOT LINES MORE OFTEN;
CRISIS SERVICES ADAPT TO NEEDS OF MANY CULTURES, LANGUAGES

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1052 words


When the phone rings at a Bay Area suicide and crisis hot line these days, the
odds are increasing that the desperate voice at the other end will be speaking
with a foreign accent or in another language.

Although hot lines don't track the ethnicity of callers, volunteers who staff
the phones have noticed a slight but steady increase in this group of callers in
the past few years. They believe the numbers should be much higher, though,
given that one-third of the country's immigrants live in California and many
fled their homeland under tremendous upheaval.

Immigrants historically have been among the most hesitant of callers, second
only to the elderly, hot line directors said. In many cultures, particularly
Asian and Hispanic ones, it is considered shameful or disrespectful to air
personal problems outside the family.

Bay Area suicide hot lines, the oldest in the country, are trying to accommodate
immigrant needs. With meager budgets, many have managed to offer multilingual
services, advertise in ethnic newspapers and become more sensitive to cultural
differences.

In January, San Francisco will go a step further, establishing a separate
Spanish-language suicide line, Linea Nocturna, believed to be the only one of
its kind in Northern California.

"People don't immigrate for the fun of it," said Eve Meyer, executive director
of San Francisco Suicide Prevention, the oldest such hot line in the country,
which started 33 years ago. "They do it usually because there's political
turmoil, a war or a death. And they leave behind their degree, their job, their
language, who they were."

Many hot lines have tried to reach out more because far more people kill
themselves than are killed at the hands of others. Indeed, there are 31,000
suicides annually in the United States, compared with 24,000 homicides, Meyer
said.

Around the Bay Area, calls from people for whom English is a second language
constitute 10 percent of the 90 calls a day received by Santa Clara County's
Suicide and Crisis Service and roughly 9 percent of the San Francisco hot line's
225 calls a day. Although barely 1 percent of the 85 daily calls to the Crisis
Center of San Mateo County come from this group, volunteers say even that's a
slight increase.

The number of callers contemplating suicide varies widely from hot line to hot
line, comprising anywhere from 10 to 75 percent of all calls. Most call about
domestic abuse, workplace harassment, the need for emergency food and shelter or
out of sheer loneliness. While calls to all hot lines peak after the holidays
during the first week of January, Santa Clara County's hot line also experiences
a surge in calls from Vietnamese immigrants during Tet, the lunar new year that
falls between Jan. 19 and Feb. 20.

"So many Vietnamese immigrants have such stressful experiences in their past,"
said Ruth White, licensed clinical social worker and head of the hot line. "Tet
brings up all the people, all the memories, left behind."

At the Santa Clara County hot line, a young man from Taiwan who is here for
school calls from his apartment bathroom, whispering that he wants to kill
himself, but can't bring himself to do it because it would dishonor his family.

A list of worries

He is struggling in school and argues constantly with his roommate; his
girlfriend wants to break up with him, and now his visa has run out. He fears he
has become a failure to his parents in Taiwan.

The hot line volunteer calmed the young man and helped him realize he must call
the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service to apply for a new visa.

Another phone rings. It is a Middle Eastern woman distraught over harassment by
a Hispanic man who is her study-group partner in school. She refused to go out
with him because dating is not accepted in her culture. Miffed, he began
spreading rumors that they had a sexual relationship. She was so humiliated she
didn't want to go back to class.

The hot line volunteer advised her to talk to the school dean about the problem,
and to confide in her sister, who has lived in the United States much longer, so
that she won't feel so alone.

Another tearful call comes from a 16-year-old Guatemalan boy. Angry at his
girlfriend, he kicked a dent in the family car. Now, he is afraid that his
father, who has been abusive in the past, will beat him when he sees the damage.

The hot line volunteer advised the teen how to talk to his father. The volunteer
also helped him realize that his brother-in-law, who fixed cars, could repair
the dent in exchange for chores.

When the teen calls back a few days later, he tells the volunteer his father was
furious about the car, but did not hit him. Instead, the father was willing to
have the car repaired and was happy to have his son "think around things and not
lie about it."

Cultural sensitivity

Calls like these tend to take longer than others because it takes more time to
get most immigrants to open up, hot line directors said. In particular, women
from Asian cultures tend to speak more obliquely about problems, volunteers say.
Hot line volunteers also said that when dealing with Asian and Hispanic
immigrants, they take extra care to be supportive of the person's family, even
if they are the cause of the problem, because family is so important in these
cultures.

Most hot lines rely on bilingual volunteers, who speak languages such as
Spanish, Vietnamese, Tagalog and Farsi. Santa Clara County also contracts with
the AT&T Language Line, an 800 number that allows for a three-way conference
call with a translator in any one of 140 languages.

San Francisco is now recruiting volunteers for its new Spanish-language suicide
and crisis line. The service is an outgrowth of a Spanish-language
AIDS-information hot line that has averaged 50 calls a month since it began
three years ago. Hot line workers said it only makes sense to offer dedicated
language lines in such a diverse community.

"When you express alarm, hate and love, it's always in your first language," San
Francisco's Meyer explained. "There are words that just don't translate very
well sometimes. And even if they do, it's difficult to think of them at such a
moment. We hope to give everybody access to help in their first language. To us,
this is just a beginning."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: SUICIDE AND CRISIS HOT LINES
All are anonymous. Most operate 24 hours a day, except for San Francisco's new
Linea Nocturna, which will operate from 8 p.m. to midnight. All volunteers
receive extensive training - anywhere from four days to 90 hours. Bilingual
volunteers are needed.
* Santa Clara County's Suicide and Crisis Service: The hot line can be reached
at (408) 279-3312 in San Jose; (415) 494-8420 in the North County area; and
(408) 683-2482 in the South County area. To volunteer, call (408) 885-6229.
* Crisis Center of San Mateo County: The hot line can be reached at (415)
692-6655 in the north county; (415) 368-6655 from the south county; (415)
726-6655 from the coast area. To volunteer, call (415) 692-6662.
* Crisis Support Services of Alameda County: The hot line for Oakland and
Berkeley can be reached at (510) 849-2212; for Hayward and Castro Valley at
(510) 889-1333; for Fremont and Union City at (510) 794-5211; for the Livermore
Valley at (510) 449-5566. To volunteer, call (510) 848-1515.
* Suicide Prevention Service of Santa Cruz County: The hot line can be reached
at (408) 458-5300. To volunteer, call (408) 462-6831.
* San Francisco Suicide Prevention: The hot line can be reached at (415)
781-0500. To volunteer, call (415) 984-1900.
* San Francisco's Spanish-only hot line, Linea Nocturna, will start in early
January. The hot line can be reached at (415) 989-5212. To volunteer, call (415)
984-1900.
Mercury News Reporting

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 27, 1995 Monday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

CITIZENSHIP DRIVE GATHERS STEAM RESPONSE: 300 SIGN UP FOR A WORKSHOP ORGANIZED
IN SAN BENITO COUNTY.

BYLINE: DALE RODEBAUGH, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 521 words


A six-month effort to help immigrants in San Benito County become citizens is
gaining momentum, said Margaret Rebecchi, who organized the drive.

"It's a very intimidating process for many people, so we're taking them by the
hand and saying, 'It's not difficult to become a citizen,' " Rebecchi said.

As evidence, Rebecchi noted the nearly 300 immigrants who signed up for a
workshop last week to review citizenship applications and have their photographs
and fingerprints taken.

The workshop was the first conducted in Northern California by the National
Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, Rebecchi said.

Residents of Gilroy as well as San Benito, Monterey and Santa Cruz counties were
among those who enrolled, Rebecchi said. While the majority were
Mexican-Americans, the sign-up sheet included names of immigrants from Portugal,
the Philippines, Iran and Italy.

Beginning next month, mock interviews will be conducted to prepare applicants
for their face-to-face quizzing by Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials, Rebecchi said.

The culmination will occur at a ceremony July 3 in Hollister to swear in new
citizens, Rebecchi said. It will mark the first time that a swearing-in ceremony
has been held in the county.

When she learned from a survey in June that 400 parishioners of Hollister's
Sacred Heart Church were interested in becoming citizens, Rebecchi, 45, a
daughter of Mexican farmworkers, knew what she had to do.

Taking a six-month leave from her teaching job, Rebecchi persuaded the San
Jose-based Center for Employment Training to offer classes in U.S. history and
government at Sacred Heart Church. The agency also agreed to administer the
final test in Hollister, saving students the drive to San Jose.

Rebecchi then began to get out word about what she called the San Benito County
Citizenship Project. She recorded radio spots, spoke to church and senior
citizen groups, distributed fliers to businesses and visited farm labor camps.

Ten to 15 regular volunteers helped by showing the immigrants how to fill out
applications.

"The controversy over Proposition 187 and the Simpson bill in Congress that
would deny benefits to aliens legally in the country had a lot to do with people
getting interested in becoming citizens," Rebecchi said.

In addition to preparing immigrants for their interview with the INS, the
training program beginning in December will include English and a course on the
voting process, Rebecchi said.

"I've learned that new citizens - and even natural-born citizens - don't vote
because they're intimidated by the process. They don't know how to fill out a
registration form, ask for an absentee ballot or find a polling place," Rebecchi
said.

While the employment training program focuses on non-citizens, Rebecchi in
February will offer non-voting citizens a class on the voting process.

"There is so much apathy because people have given up on politicians and are
unhappy with government. I want justice for all citizens. But they have to
participate, they have to exercise their right to vote," Rebecchi said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 November 28, 1995 Tuesday STOCK FINAL EDITION

U.S. CRITICAL OF EXIT FEES CHARGED BY CUBA

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The State Department says hundreds of Cubans who have received U.S. immigrant
visas have been unable to emigrate because the fees charged by the Cuban
government are excessive.

"We believe these fees should be reduced," said spokesman Nicholas Burns.

He commented Monday as U.S. and Cuban officials opened two days of talks on
migration issues in New York.

Before departing for the United States, each Cuban migrant is required to pay a
combined total of $750 for a medical exam, a passport and an exit visa. With a
minimum of 20,000 Cubans guaranteed U.S. residence visas annually under an
agreement reached last year, Cuba makes about $15 million in hard currency from
these transactions.

Cuba says the services provided are expensive and that the fees are down 15
percent from their previous level.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 25, 1995 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WAY OFF TARGET ON IMMIGRANTS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 483 words


I was dismayed by the insert I found in the Mercury News for the Thanksgiving
Day edition. Target stores were advertising free survival kits containing prizes
to the first 1,000 customers reporting to their store on Friday morning.

The infuriating part was that in order to win you had to prove legal U.S.
residency. I've never seen Target personnel worried about the legal status of
the customer as they approach cash registers. The concern is with how much of
the green stuff is coming in, not whether the customer is legal or illegal.
Since when has Target become a part of the INS? Their self-righteousness is a
real turn off and their ignorance is astounding.

Are Target stores willing to risk the billions of dollars that minority
communities spend to jump on the ugly hate campaign against immigrants?

Let's remember that it was this kind of thinking that got six million Jews
killed and thousands of Japanese Americans put in camps during the Second World
War. Once again hate has become fashionable and atrocities are starting to take
place all over the country. We can always rely on people who don't want to look
beyond their prejudices and deal with the real problems of society.

- Esther Medina
Executive Director
Mexican American Community
Services Agency, San Jose
GOV. WILSON IGNORES ROOT OF WELFARE PROBLEM
Gov. Pete Wilson ignores the real reason for the rise in welfare dependency in
his analysis of the problem (Commentary, Dec. 21).

. The real reason is that it is impossible to earn a living on the minimum wage.
The rise of welfare dependency can be directly correlated with the declining
value of a minimum wage job. Since it is far easier to take welfare than to work
hard for less buying power, any rational person without valuable skills will opt
for government dependency. Of course the fact that the government allows
companies to dump their employees and move their operations offshore without a
tariff penalty also impacts the plight of the poor by removing any chance for a
good wage in manual labor.

- Gerard Moshofsky
Palo Alto
MEDITATION HELPS THE IMMUNE SYSTEM
This is regarding the December 6 news article on meditation's effect on
physiological functions.

Research in the related field of psychoneuroimmunology (PNI), has shown that
what you think about, can affect your immune system's functioning. Considering
that the immune system is the most powerful cancer-fighting system known, it is
surprising that PNI is not popular among oncologists. Most standard methods of
cancer treatment have the side-effect of suppressing the immune system.

Even if PNI is no better than the standard methods in curing the disease, it
costs next to nothing and has no side -effects. At a time when healthcare costs
have gone under the microscope, it may prove useful to take a serious look at
such alternatives.

- A. P. Vinayagam
Saratoga

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Letters to the editor

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 29, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. POLICIES DRIVE MANY IMMIGRANTS TO AMERICA

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 124 words


The anti-immigrant people seem to forget that many, if not most, immigrants,
legal and illegal, are in the United States because of the actions of our
government - our foreign policy, our wars, our economic policies.

The economic war on developing countries continues to the present time. The
World Bank gives money to the elite, leaving the average working person the
choice of emigrating or starving.

It seems to me that the role of the media should be to provide the public
information on how and why people came to the United States, what our
obligations are to people to whom we held out promises in exchange for their
support, and what our heritage is. Most of us are the descendants of immigrants.

- Margot Smith
Berkeley

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 December 29, 1995 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LET'S KEEP AMERICA'S GATES OPEN

BYLINE: A.M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 635 words


TAKE IN the stranger, care for him. The major religions of the world all teach
that. At the time of holidays - holy days - that might be worth thinking about.

The above paragraph is a blatant attempt to use religion, the holiday season,
emotion, compassion and sentiment in the cause of a generous American
immigration policy.

Yes, and it is an unashamed effort to call down the words of Jehovah, Jesus,
Allah, Krishna, Buddha and the great Sikh gurus to smite and warn American
politicians who fight to keep narrowing the opening in the gates of America.

They struggle, with all their sour passions, to treat legal immigrants as a
special caste to be deprived of rights and privileges for the offense of being
foreign-born.

But when the stranger sets immediately to build cities, take in crops and
strengthen the country with his skills, culture and genius, we get that lovely
combination - virtue and responsibility coming together to promote our
self-interest. That is what generous immigration gives us, a thought that might
move Americans who sit by, not noticing its approaching demise.

As a holiday gift, I give you three particularly useful recent writings on
immigration.

Julian L. Simon, a professor of business at the University of Maryland, has put
the essence of his noted immigration studies into 51 pages - "Immigration: the
Demographic and Economic Facts."

Here's a taste, backed by statistics, to answer the charges made by the
gate-narrowers en route to their goal of gate-closing:

Despite the propaganda about America being overwhelmed with immigrants, the rate
of immigration is about one-third what it was at the beginning of the century.
Immigrants do not increase the rate of unemployment among native-born Americans.
Total per capita government expenditures on immigrants are much lower than those
for the native-born. The education levels of immigrants have been increasing
every decade. Natural resources and the environment are not at risk from
immigration - in fact, they are helped by the technical knowledge it brings.

You can get this report from the Cato Institute, a conservative think tank, at
1000 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20001. It is excellent for
smiting.

But the immigration issue is not just about statistics. Without immigration,
America would not have long existed. Now, without immigration it cannot exist as
a world power. Immigration helped create the weaponry and technology, from the
atom bomb to the cruise missiles of the gulf war that empowered America
militarily.

Today, immigrants of genius are essential to American industry and to high
standards of American life. One-third of all American Nobel winners are
foreign-born and, judging by mathematical doctorates, science degrees, patents,
prizes and publications, one-third of American geniuses are foreign-born.

Those conclusions come from "Geniuses from Abroad" in the Wall Street Journal of
Dec. 18, by George Gilder, a fellow of the Discovery Institute in Seattle.

It would be handy if the United States could just pick up geniuses full blown,
rejecting all others at the gate. But geniuses have a way of arriving in America
disguised as little kids. Or they come from the wombs of non-genius immigrant
mothers. That's the way it works.

But when an immigrant or immigrant-family genius does flower, he turns out to be
thousands of times more productive economically than ordinary people - a reality
ignored by too many economists.

Then, for an idea how gate closers are endangering immigration and perverting
the Constitution, read the analysis of the anti-immigration measures now pending
in Congress. Get it from National Immigration Forum, 220 I St. N.E., Suite 220,
Washington D.C. 20002-4362. Then have a chat with your local Congress member.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
A.M. Rosenthal is a New York Times columnist.

                     Copyright 1995 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 4, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CLARA GERACI, EXTRAORDINARY IMMIGRANT ENTERED CANADA IN RUCKSACK

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 579 words


When the 20th century was just a teen-ager in the orchard-filled Valley of the
Heart's Delight, and Clara Martha DeGanck was just a teen-ager too, she was
certainly not the only youngster already hard at work in the canneries. Most
immigrant children were.

But Clara DeGanck surely was the only Santa Clara Valley teen to have been
smuggled into North America in a rucksack over her father's shoulder. As an
8-year-old, she had contracted measles while sailing steerage across the
Atlantic from her native Belgium, and her parents feared Canada would have
turned her, and them, away.

And Clara DeGanck was probably the only 14-year-old cannery worker who had
struggled for a year to stay warm and alive in a covered wagon carrying her
family across the continent. The DeGancks stopped their migration for a time
with relatives who lived on a ranch in Saskatchewan. "She had a lot of stories
about living in the snow," said her daughter, Marie. "She wrapped her legs in
newspapers to walk through the snow to school."

But eventually when Clara DeGanck saw the Santa Clara Valley, a place with her
name on it, "she prayed to stay," said Marie Lawrence.

She did, although her family returned to Belgium. At the California Packing
Corp., which would become Del Monte, Clara DeGanck met Rose Geraci and then she
met Rose's brother, Louis. It was a Belgian-Italian love affair that lasted 61
years.

Clara Geraci moved from packing to working in the office where one of her jobs
was handing out pay to the women and children on the line. "They all spoke
Italian, and she didn't," said her daughter, "so she memorized all their names
and numbers. She was all ready when they came."

The Geracis saved - Louis had worked in the canneries from the age of 10 - and
in 1938 bought their first fruit ranch on Wright Avenue in Cupertino. He was a
night foreman at CPC Plant 3 on Auzerais Avenue for years, and during the day
worked his own orchards.

As Louis Geraci rose to assistant superintendent and finally superintendent,
Clara reared their daughter and son, Peter, who was killed in an accident.

She also learned to cook Italian, said her grandson Kerry Lawrence, and then she
taught others to cook Italian, even her Italian sister-in-law, Rose Geraci
Mosso. "My mother's raviolis just floated off your plate," said Marie Lawrence.
"That was her specialty."

The Geracis moved to another ranch at McClellan and Saratoga-Sunnyvale roads in
1945 and finally to South Blaney Avenue in 1957.

The couple launched a new career after Louis Geraci was forced to retire at 65.
He knew the operation of the canneries so well that he was hired as a consultant
to set up new Del Monte plants on foreign soil, his daughter said.

A South Africa installation was the only solo trip. "Unless Mama goes," he said
afterward, "I don't go." Clara Geraci accompanied her husband to Panama, Mexico,
Italy, Australia and the Bahamas.

Louis H. Geraci died in 1979 at age 82.

White-haired Clara Geraci mothered her two grandsons and her five
great-grandchildren and all the other children in the area, and she stayed alert
despite failing health and congestive heart failure, said Kerry Lawrence.

She sat and watched the television show, "Jeopardy," and supplied answers. "And
she never lost a thing," said her grandson, "to the very last day." She died
Dec. 26 at age 95 in the home of her daughter, a teacher who substituted in the
Saratoga elementary district for 30 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: * Born: Nov. 27, 1900, Belgium.
* Died: Dec. 26, 1995, Saratoga, Calif.
* Survived by: Daughter and son-in-law, Marie and Frank Lawrence of Saratoga;
grandsons and wives, Kerry and Rhonda Lawrence of Saratoga, Jerry and Cynthia
Lawrence of San Jose; great-grandchildren, Benjamin, Matthew, Michael, Sean and
Meghan.
* Services: Have been held.
* Memorial: Donations may be made to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Box
3704, Memphis, Tenn. 38173; the American Heart Association, 1 Almaden Blvd., San
Jose, Calif. 95113; American Lung Association of Santa Clara-San Benito
Counties, 1469 Park Ave., San Jose, Calif., 95126.OBITUARIES

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JANUARY 5, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLITICAL-ASYLUM REFORM PRAISED

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 76 words


A year-old effort to reform the U.S. political-asylum system and minimize fraud
has achieved "dramatic success," reducing new asylum claims filed with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service by 57 percent, INS Commissioner Doris
Meissner said Thursday. However, the agency still has a backlog of 460,000
pending asylum cases, up 13,000 from a year ago, and efforts to accelerate the
reduction of that case load depend on more congressional funding.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 12, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICAN BORDER CONTROL STRATEGY CHANGES TODAY

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 86 words


Fearing that Mexico's continued economic slide may be driving more people north,
U.S. authorities will unveil a comprehensive immigration-control strategy today
calling for new assistance from the U.S. military and local police along the
Southwest border.

In a novel approach that quickly drew criticism, as many as 135 police officers
and sheriff's deputies will ride with Border Patrol agents in San Diego County,
transport prisoners and provide "support and security" at immigration-detention
facilities.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 15, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION LIMITS CUT OUT THE HEART OF AMERICA

BYLINE: REKHA BASU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 545 words


Of all the things I owe to my big sister, the one I've probably taken the most
for granted is my immigrant status in America.
She didn't bring me here; our parents did that. In the service of an
international organization based in New York, they ended up living for decades,
and raising their children, in America. But my sister alone, by circumstance of
birth, had U.S. citizenship, and thus the power to make all of us permanent
residents. So when the rest of us would have had to go back to India - I was
already into adulthood and my parents into retirement - it fell to my sister to
sponsor us to stay.

It worked the same with many other families I knew growing up - families who'd
lived here most of their lives on temporary, job-related visas. But for an
American child or sibling, they may have had to return to countries with which,
in many cases, they'd long since severed ties.

As a sibling-sponsored visa applicant, I fell into what's known as the Fourth
Preference category, the lowest in the system of ranking prospective immigrants.
Fourth had the longest wait - in my case two years, but these days, on average,
10.

My temporary status was long ago made permanent. My own case is academic now.
But included in congressional legislation to sharply curb both legal and illegal
immigration is a plan to do away with the Fourth Preference - the very one under
which I stayed.

In fact, under the guise of cutting back on "illegal" immigration, Congress is
attacking at the very heart of an American legacy, by which successive groups of
immigrants have arrived, worked hard to save money and sent for relatives. It's
lumping reforms to the legal immigration system together with attacks on the
illegal one.

Legislation being considered in both houses would punch huge gashes in the three
ways newcomers settle in America - to be united with family; through employment
because of their special skills; or as refugees fleeing persecution. The latter
two fly in the face of economic or humanitarian interests. But the cuts to the
family category - the immigrants who may not yield immediate economic payoffs,
and who aren't in danger at home eat at the soul of this country's heritage.

The legislation would impose a new, class-based restriction, under which any
sponsor, even of an underage child or a spouse, would have to show a personal
income of at least 200 percent of the poverty level - $35,000 a year. All of
which flies in the face of what are euphemistically called "family values."

In the patchwork of shops dotting Chicago's Devon Avenue on the far north side
unfolds a classic story of immigration, America-style. There you find the
remnants of successive cultures layered upon other cultures, Thai upon Russian,
Indian upon Chinese, Croatian upon ethnic Jewish. Like so many other enclaves
around the country, it tells a quintessentially American epic.

When I think of the most unique, most endearing aspects of America, the ones
that no other country can lay claim to in quite the same degree, it's this image
that I always come back to: the America dotted with ethnic neighborhoods, and
stories of struggle and success. The America that always makes room for the
newcomer. An America whose future is now at risk.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: COMMENTARY
Rekha Basu is a columnist at the Des Moines Register.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 21, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CASTRO OKS LOWER FEES FOR SOME EMIGRANTS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 71 words


President Fidel Castro of Cuba has agreed to lower the fees some poor Cubans are
charged for immigrating to the United States under bilateral immigration
accords, U.S. Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., said Saturday. Richardson said the
agreement to lower fees for 1,000 cases immediately and then for another 1,000
cases each year was reached in a six-hour meeting with Castro that lasted into
the early hours of Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: World News in Brief

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Richardson
[960121 FR 8A 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 22, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT WOMEN STILL JAILED AFTER 3 YEARS CATCH-22: CHINESE SHIPWRECK SURVIVORS
SAY THEY FLED BIRTH CONTROL EDICTS, BUT THE INS SAYS THAT ALONE ISN'T GROUNDS
FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM.

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA


Nearly three years after the Golden Venture freighter beached itself off the
shores of New York with a cargo of Chinese immigrants, eight women from the
desperate venture languish in a California jail.

With their appeals nearly exhausted, at least one of the women is threatening
suicide if forced to return to China, the Orange County Register reported Jan.
14.

The women, supported by a coalition of Chinese-American groups and anti-abortion
organizations, are seeking political asylum, contending they've been persecuted
by China's policies on population control.

Tim Yin, past president of the Chinese-American Association of Kern County,
visits the women frequently at their lockup in Bakersfield. He said there's
nothing to be gained by continuing their incarceration.

"They've paid their dues," he said.

Luan Ying Wang, one of the women who recently participated in a hunger strike,
said through an interpreter, "If they try to send me back to China, I'll kill
myself at the airport."

Because the Golden Venture immigrants were rounded up on the beach, they
technically failed to enter the United States. The legal distinction meant that
under exclusion proceedings they weren't eligible for bail even if they
contested their deportation.

Wang, 40, insists she fled China not to get higher-paying work in the United
States, but because the government classified her an "excess-birth guerrilla,"
someone who had too many children under Chinese law.

On June 6, 1993, nearly 300 Chinese nationals who paid up to $3,000 apiece for
their passage jumped overboard from the beached freighter Golden Venture off the
shore of New York.

At least six of them drowned. Five escaped and the rest were rounded up.

More than 100 men from the Golden Venture remain in custody, most of them in
Pennsylvania.

The Clinton administration allocated $6 million in emergency funding to return
smuggled immigrants to their native countries.

The eight women held at the Lerdo Detention Facility in Bakersfield contested
their exclusion. An immigration judge has already ruled against them, saying
China's birth-control policies by themselves don't provide grounds for asylum.

A group of lawmakers, including Reps. Robert K. Dornan and Dana Rohrabacher -
both Orange County Republicans - have legislation pending that would reverse
that ruling.

Prompted by their indefinite incarceration, some of the women held at Lerdo
began a hunger strike in November that persisted in various stages for about 50
days.

A spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington,
D.C., said the immigrants have created their own dilemma.

"These women have chosen to go through complete due process," said INS
spokeswoman Elaine Komis. "They aren't being held any longer than anyone else
who chooses to do that."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JANUARY 28, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MAN ON A MISSION - HELPING PEOPLE

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 977 words


He has piloted fighter jets at twice the speed of sound across Iranian deserts.
He even taught the late shah's sons how to fly.

Reza Odabaee still moves at lightning speed - but in a much different capacity
these days. His cockpit is now a bustling office at Catholic Charities in San
Jose. And his mission is helping Vietnamese, Bosnian and Cuban newcomers settle
into apartments, learn English, obtain medical care and find jobs.

For four years, this case manager in immigration and refugee services has been
an all-around problem-solver for the agency's mostly Catholic immigrants - even
though he is Muslim. With a calming strength, he has been there for them at
midnight, on weekends, even when they have come out of surgery.

"It doesn't matter what religion, what country, what background you have," said
Odabaee, 56, who is fluent in English, Persian and French, and has picked up a
few words of Serbo-Croatian and Spanish along the way. "You serve everyone here.
I wanted to help people because I had just gone through the phase these people
are going through."

A dozen years ago, Odabaee fled Iran to protect his sons from being thrust into
a deadly war. Six years ago, he and his family made their way to the United
States. From his work at Catholic Charities, his abilities have become so
well-known in ethnic communities that he's become the person many immigrants now
reach out to in a crisis.

"He's an amazing person," said Sister Marilyn Lacey, director of the agency's
immigration and refugee services. "He sees solutions; he doesn't see problems.
And he will get it done before you turn around."

His goal is to help each of the 800 refugees the program resettles annually to
support themselves. After going on to start their own businesses, some of
Odabaee's successes have even come back to Catholic Charities to hire other
newcomers.

Last year, Elena Troussova, a young Russian woman studying at San Jose State
University, barely survived a horrible car crash. Her left leg was broken so
badly that it had to be amputated. With no medical insurance and mounting bills,
she found herself facing a monthlong hospital stay.

Somehow, her sister found out about Odabaee. After she called, he got in touch
with volunteer organizations and O'Connor Hospital employees, who made it
possible for the young woman to get the prosthesis and physical therapy needed.

Although Odabaee and Troussova had never met, fate intervened one day. Months
later, while he was visiting a friend, he noticed a man helping a young woman
get into a car. Something about her just seemed familiar, Odabaee said.

He went up to her and said, "Elena?" She nodded. "I told her, 'I'm Reza,' and
she just went crazy," Odabaee recalled with joy. Troussova now plans to do
volunteer work at Catholic Charities.

In a typical non-stop day last week, Odabaee loaded up a van full of mattresses,
lamps and food to furnish apartments for eight Cuban rafters arriving that night
from detention camps in Cuba.

With the help of a Spanish translator, he also taught a class for a dozen more
Cuban refugees, instructing them on how to find a job in this country.

"When you get a job here, you have a supervisor who tells you what to do," he
told them. "You must listen to your supervisor. Ask questions. In America, it's
no problem. Don't be shy. Watch what others do."

As an immigrant, Odabaee settled here with a few advantages most refugees do not
have, including a familiarity with this country and the ability to speak
English. A member of the Iranian military, he was sent to the United States in
1962 where he graduated from a special U.S. Air Force pilot training program.

He was drawn to flying because of the excitement and the sense of freedom. As a
little boy, he made kites and had 100 pet canaries. As a starry-eyed 9-year-old
in his hometown of Mashad, in northeastern Iran, Odabaee would spend hours at
the small airport, where - if he was lucky - two planes would land or take off
each week.

He grew up to fly F-5 and F-4 fighter jets, then went on to be a training
instructor for 15 years. Among his more-famous pupils were the two sons of the
late shah, whom he taught to fly small propeller planes.

Still, Odabaee considers his former occupation no big deal.

"They say that a fighter pilot has the most dangerous job in the world," he
said. "But I feel safer doing that than driving in traffic in a big city."

Fled with family to Luxembourg

After the Iranian revolution ended and the air force was scaled down, Odabaee
was forced to retire after 25 years of service. When war later erupted between
Iraq and Iran, Odabaee feared his two sons, then 16 and 14, would end up being
drawn into battle and killed. As a result, he and his family fled to Luxembourg,
before making their way to Cupertino.

Odabaee tried to get a job as a flight instructor here, but found he could not
support himself at it. And at his age, commercial airlines didn't leap to hire
him. Although he used to fly planes for fun at Reid-Hillview Airport in San
Jose, he stopped when it grew too expensive.

It's been two years now since he last sat in a pilot's seat, although he
sometimes drives to nearby San Jose International Airport and parks by the
runway to watch.

More satisfaction in helping people

But as much as he loves flying, he says he couldn't give up a job where there is
so much satisfaction in helping lives get better.

Many refugees are grateful for his choice. Even though it's been two years since
Kwot and Nygare Gilo left Sudan, the two brothers still remember the care
Odabaee took to get them jobs and to show them around San Jose.

"Even now, every week, even if we don't call Reza, he calls us to make sure we
are OK," said Kwot Gilo, 24, an electronics assembler. "He became a very good
friend. We will not forget him."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Anyone interested in helping Reza Odabaee in his work can volunteer by calling
Catholic Charities at (408) 944-0282, ext. 159. Donations may be sent to
Catholic Charities Refugee Resettlement Program, 2625 Zanker Road, Suite 201,
San Jose, Calif. 95134-2107.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Odabaee
[960128 LO 2B]
PHOTO: RICK E. MARTIN - MERCURY NEWS
Reza Odabaee, with the help of a Spanish translator, teaches a class for Cuban
refugees on how to find a job.
[960128 LO 1B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                JANUARY 31, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEADLINE TODAY FOR SALVADORANS TO SEEK ASYLUM

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 178 words


Thousands of Salvadoran refugees in the South Bay have until today to file for
political asylum or risk becoming undocumented.

The deadline stems from a class-action suit charging that the federal
Immigration and Naturalization Service unfairly denied asylum to political
refugees from Central America.

A 1990 court settlement forced the INS to reconsider asylum claims filed by
Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees since 1980. Because asylum will not
automatically be granted to all applicants, some Salvadorans have been hesitant
to apply for fear of being deported.

More than 500,000 Salvadorans came to the United States during the 1980s, the
INS said.

Many were deported, obtained permanent residency under amnesty programs,
successfully applied for asylum earlier or returned to El Salvador after the
civil war.

But about 150,000 to 200,000 who arrived in the United States before 1990 are
still here and are eligible for political asylum.

The 1990 census found about 26,000 Salvadorans living in Alameda, Santa Clara
and San Mateo counties.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 14, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHINESE FATHER FIGHTING DEPORTATION IMMIGRATION: U.S. NO LONGER ACCEPTS
ONE-CHILD POLICY AS GROUNDS FOR ASYLUM.

BYLINE: De Tran - Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 598 words


De You Chen's life in limbo went before the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on
Tuesday, with a three-judge panel to decide whether to uphold a government
decision to deport the Chinese citizen or to grant him political asylum.

The 33-year-old construction worker is seeking to stay in the United States on
grounds that he would be persecuted if forced to go back to China, where Chen
believes he will be forcibly sterilized under that nation's stringent
one-child-family population-control policy.

Chen's appeal of this Clinton administration policy is the first before the 9th
Circuit and is likely to establish precedent for hundreds of similar cases in
California and eight other Western states. Chen has been held in an Immigration
and Naturalization Service detention center in Bakersfield since his boat, the
Peaceful Golden Dragon, ran aground near San Diego in May 1993.

If other districts' decisions are any indication, Chen's chances of staying in
the United States are not promising. Although rulings by other circuit courts
are not binding in the 9th Circuit, Chen's lawyer, Helen Morris, acknowledged
that the 2nd, 4th and 5th circuit courts have ruled against Chinese immigrants
seeking similar asylum.

Chen and his wife fled their village in the Fujian province after the government
accused the couple of violating the one-child-family policy by having a third
child. The couple fled their home, Morris said, because Chinese officials were
about to force his wife to abort her pregnancy, then in its eighth month.

De You fled to the United States. His wife and children remained in China, and
she subsequently gave birth to a boy. De You's lawyer said he hoped to send for
his wife and children after he arrived in the United States.

As punishment for his defiance, Morris said, Chinese officials destroyed Chen's
home, fined him many times his annual income and barred his children from
school.

"If Mr. Chen were deported, he would be re-educated in a prison camp," Morris
said following her argument before the court. "He would be required to pay
fines. . . . He would be forcibly sterilized."

At heart of the case is whether the appeals court would buy Chen's contention
that he would face persecution if deported or whether it was Chen's desire to
have a son that prompted to him to defy the one-child policy.

Justice Department attorney David McConnell said Chen had failed to show
credible proof that he would be persecuted if returned.

Chinese nationals who arrived illegally have often claimed that China's coercive
family-planning policy constitutes political persecution.

Current immigration law, however, is weighted against them. A 1989 ruling by the
federal Board of Immigration Appeals rejected political asylum claims based
solely on China's family planning practices. Immigration experts say refugees
must prove they face forced abortions and sterilizations because of their
political opinion, not merely because of their Chinese citizenship.

Under President Bush, and in the wake of the Tiananmen Square crackdown, U.S.
courts almost always granted asylum on this basis, but that policy prompted many
Chinese to try to gain illegal access to the United States.

To curb that trend, which at its height in 1993 saw more than 100,000 Chinese
try to enter the country illegally, President Clinton decided in August 1994 to
adopt a tougher approach. The Clinton administration omitted fear of coercive
family planning as a basis for asylum; special exceptions would be granted only
to the worst cases of abuse and suffering.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                FEBRUARY 15, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PROP. 187 FOLLOW-UP RUNS OUT OF TIME SAVE OUR STATE II: SIGNATURES NOT TURNED IN

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 617 words


One of the sons of Proposition 187 is dead.

Save Our State II, billed by author Ron Prince as the spiritual sequel to the
November 1994 initiative, died Valentine's Day from apparent lack of interest
from the grass-roots groups that put 187 on the ballot.

Petitions containing 433,269 valid signatures were due at county registrar
offices by 5 p.m. Wednesday, but registrars in Los Angeles, Orange, Santa Diego
and Santa Clara counties said they received none as of the deadline.

Proposition 187, aimed at denying public benefits to illegal immigrants, has
been in legal limbo since a federal judge eviscerated the measure in November.
Its sequel was a wide-ranging, complicated measure aimed at using the initiative
process to amend the U.S. Constitution.

SOS II's most controversial provision would have tried to deny automatic
citizenship to the children of undocumented mothers. It would have needed
approval from 37 other state legislatures.

Prince, the head of the Save Our State Committee in Orange County, wasn't in
town Wednesday, and a man who answered the phone at the group's headquarters
declined to give a number where Prince could be reached.

"It's kind of strange, isn't it?" asked Harold Ezell, a former Immigration and
Naturalization Service regional commissioner who helped give birth to the first
Save Our State measure in his Newport Beach office. "All that hullabaloo and
then . . . nothing."

Opponents of 187 rejoiced at the news.

"These people who started this movement in Orange County are basically
hate-mongers and have been rejected by the public," said Mohinder Mann, chairman
of Coalition 2000, the multiethnic Santa Clara County group that organized local
opposition to 187.

Robert Rubin of the San Francisco-based Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights said
the measure "threatened to turn maternity wards into immigration checkpoints."

But most 187 proponents said that the initiative died simply because people
didn't want to gather signatures for an essentially advisory measure. Many said
the efforts of the immigration reform movement should be focused on tough
immigration legislation in Congress sponsored by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, and
Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyoming.

"The Simpson and Smith bills are the real sons of 187," said Rick Oltman, who
ran the 187 campaign in Northern California. "SOS II was a stepson. It was a
stupid idea."

Now that SOS II has been buried, Oltman said, he thinks more people in
grass-roots immigration reform groups will be inclined to support the so-called
RSVP initiative.

The Residency Status Verification Petition, which faces a May 6 deadline, would
require the state Department of Motor Vehicles to issue "fraud-proof" identity
cards that would be necessary to obtain most public benefits.

Barbara Coe, a SOS II supporter from Huntington Beach, said she thought one of
the reasons the measure faltered was that too many people had been committed to
gathering signatures for the California Civil Rights Initiative, the
anti-affirmative-action measure.

"It just made it more difficult when you're out there with the two of them," Coe
said. "Some of them were discouraged by what happened to 187 - the judge
slam-dunked them."

A few weeks ago, CCRI also looked as if it was on its deathbed. Of late,
however, organizers have been more sanguine.

"I believe we'll qualify" before the Feb. 21 deadline, said Ward Connerly, the
campaign chairman.

The CCRI campaign has 800,000 signatures - it needs 693,230 valid ones - "and
the signatures are coming in at a clip of 20,000 a day," he said. "I'm
projecting that if the volunteers keep their foot to the metal, we'll qualify at
2:46 p.m. Feb. 17."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Hallye Jordan of the Sacramento Bureau
contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 18, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. PAYS DEARLY IF FOREIGN-WORKER CUTBACKS SUCCEED

BYLINE: James J. Mitchell, Mercury News Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1028 words


SILICON Valley executives are engaged in an intense battle in Congress to retain
the ability to hire and, in some cases, bring to this country some of the
world's best scientists and engineers.

Both houses are working on laws covering legal and illegal immigration. Tucked
within the hundreds of pages of legalese are provisions that would make it much
more difficult - and at times impossible - for high-tech companies to hire top
university researchers or transfer key employees to the United States.

The number of people who would be affected is relatively small. For example, if
the Senate bill had been in effect in 1994, it would have covered about 300
employees Hewlett-Packard hired or moved that year, when H-P's U.S. workforce
totaled 58,000 people.

But the impact would be tremendous because these individuals bring crucial
skills that bolster U.S. companies' competitiveness.

The immigration bills would be especially burdensome to small companies, which
depend heavily on a few highly skilled people.

"'If our foreign competitors had conspired to contrive a scheme to slow us down,
I doubt that they could have come up with a better way to do that than the
immigration law revision that is in the works today,"' says Andrew S. Grove,
chief executive of Intel.

Under these provisions, Grove, a Hungarian refugee, would have had a tougher
time getting a job after receiving his doctorate from UC-Berkeley. Vinod Khosla
and Andreas Bechtolsheim, two of the four ex-Stanford and UC-Berkeley students
who started Sun Microsystems, might have been forced to form their corporation
overseas. And many less famous but still important contributors would have ended
up working overseas, either for a U.S. company or a competitor.

Because of the passions aroused by the topic of immigration, it's likely a bill
on the issue will pass Congress this year and be signed into law by President
Clinton.

High-tech companies are trying to persuade Congress to split the bills into two,
one addressing legal immigration and the other illegal immigration. That way
legislators could vote against drastic changes in the rules that affect highly
skilled, legal immigrants while voting in favor of limits on illegal
immigration. Such a split also would help keep some lawmakers from being
unfairly branded as favoring illegal immigrants over American workers.

So far, the effort to split the bills has failed. Among its key opponents is
California Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who voted with the majority when the Senate
Subcommittee on Immigration decided, 4-3, to combine what had been separate
bills. The full Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote Feb. 29 on the
subcommittee's decision. Feinstein's office didn't respond to questions about
her position on this issue.

Bills in both houses would reduce the number of visas granted to foreigners who
seek work here and make it more difficult to qualify for such visas. The Senate
bill, sponsored by Alan Simpson, D-Wyo., is the more onerous.

It would limit the stay of employees that companies transfer to the United
States to three years, compared with seven years today. That would hurt both
U.S. and foreign companies with operations here.

Take Chip Express, a fast-growing maker of a laser-based machine used to make
custom semiconductors. The company, which has 110 employees, was founded in
Israel but has 77 of its workers, including 38 U.S. citizens, in Santa Clara.

Sharone Zehavi, director of production, transferred to Santa Clara from the
company's R&D lab in Israel in 1993. He invented and continues to improve the
company's key service, which helps companies make small batches of advanced
chips economically. If Zehavi were to leave after three years, Chip Express'
efforts to upgrade the process would be delayed for a year or more. "'Taking the
head off, you still have the body, but it's not the same,"' a spokeswoman says.

The Senate bill would require foreign workers to have at least three years of
work experience in the United States before applying for permanent work visas.
Because temporary visas would be limited to three years, such people would have
to leave the country before they could apply for permanent visas. This would
affect foreign students who currently join high-tech companies upon graduation.

Many foreign students would seek jobs overseas instead, which would hit U.S.
companies with a double whammy.

First, many of them would wind up with competitors. Second, U.S. companies
couldn't fill their openings.

Even now, with foreign students in the pool, there aren't enough students
specializing in the sciences, software programming and computer science to
satisfy industry needs.

The number of Americans in U.S. science and engineering graduate programs has
declined to 60 percent of those getting doctorates and 70 percent of those
receiving master's degrees.

The Senate bill also includes disincentives for hiring foreigners. It would
require companies to pay "'permanent immigrant employees"' 5 percent more than
U.S. workers - not the best way to promote company harmony - and a minimum
$10,000 fee to the federal government for each such worker they hire. (That fee
would be earmarked for a training fund for U.S. workers.)

The main assumption behind these bills is that U.S. companies hire foreign
workers instead of Americans because they're less expensive. That's not true in
the high-tech industry.

In fact, hiring foreign workers is more expensive. The law requires that wages
be comparable to what U.S. workers are paid. Companies must also spend $5,000 to
$10,000 on a "'labor certification process"' to show the Department of Labor
that no qualified U.S. worker is available. Sometimes there's the expense of
moving a worker and his or her family from overseas.

But companies are willing to pay more because they need the skills. Without
these people, U.S. companies will lose their technological edge, which means
they'll grow more slowly or even shrink.

That would be a disaster for high tech and the U.S. economy.

Obviously that's not Congress' intent. Unfortunately, it's the result that
counts.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Write James J. Mitchell at the Mercury News, 750 Ridder Park Drive, San
Jose, Calif. 95190; phone (408) 920-5544; fax (408) 920-5917; or w e-mail to
JMitch(atsign)aol.com .

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 18, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

POLL: AMERICANS BACK IMMIGRATION LIMITS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 134 words


Nearly eight in 10 Americans believe immigration rates should be dramatically
scaled back - and one-fifth want a halt to all immigration, legal or not, a new
poll suggests.

The Roper poll, commissioned by a small non-profit group that advocates a
substantially decreased U.S. population, comes as Congress is poised to tackle
bills seeking to thwart illegal immigration and make a dent in legal entries.

Seventy-nine percent of those polled for Negative Population Growth Inc. said
the United States should allow 600,000 or fewer immigrants entry annually. Of
that 79 percent, about half endorsed rates of 100,000 or fewer.

In 1994, the United States granted legal residency, asylum or refugee status to
804,416 foreigners. At least 300,000 people are believed to enter unlawfully
each year.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 23, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BUCHANAN, ALEXANDER SPAR ON IMMIGRATION, FOREIGN-TRADE POLICY

BYLINE: Dan Sewell, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz.


A defiant Pat Buchanan bragged in a freewheeling Republican debate Thursday that
the Japanese government was nervous he would win the presidency and demand
fairer trade rules. He vowed, if elected, to "unilaterally" end Japan's trade
surplus if necessary.

Before a noisy auditorium crowd at Arizona State University, Buchanan also
described his plan to build a security fence on the U.S-Mexico border to "stop
the illegal immigration along the southern border of this country cold."

Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, combining a critique of Buchanan's trade
and immigration views, suggested his rival was a defeatist who wanted to "build
two walls around America."

Buchanan, the New Hampshire primary winner, was the center of attention - and
attacks - throughout a crackling 90-minute televised event five days before
Arizona's hotly contested GOP presidential primary.

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole took a few barbs early for being absent, but
then was all but forgotten as Buchanan, Alexander and publishing heir Steve
Forbes clashed pointedly over trade, tax reform, immigration, and, more broadly,
the future direction of the Republican Party. California Rep. Robert Dornan also
participated, often acting more like a referee than a candidate himself.

Points of accord

Not that there weren't areas of agreement.

All four pledged to shift control of welfare to the states and said local
control over national parks and other lands now controlled by Washington was a
good idea, too. In a state where 13 percent of the population is 65 or older,
all four said current Social Security recipients needed to be protected while
reforms to the retirement system are discussed.

But disagreements dominated.

Throughout the evening, Alexander said "Buchananism" would hurt the economy by
"building a wall around the country" with protectionist trade views.

He also used Buchanan's opposition to the gulf war as evidence Buchanan would
have the United States retreat from world affairs, which Alexander said was ill
advised.

But Buchanan was unbowed.

Citing the giant Japanese trade surplus with the United States, Buchanan said
his message to Tokyo would be: "You're going to work out this problem, or I'm
going to work it out unilaterally."

He said he was all for free trade with England and Canada and other countries
that played fair. But he said his message to China would be this: "We're not
treating you the same way we treat a democratic republic because you're a brutal
dictatorship."

Facing the Japanese

And when Alexander promised to be tough in trade talks with the Japanese,
Buchanan shook his head in disbelief.

Buchanan turned to Alexander and said Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto
"is a lot more concerned if Pat Buchanan is going to be sitting in that Oval
Office than if you're going to sit there."

Forbes sided with Alexander in the trade debate, warning against the dangers of
economic and diplomatic isolationism. "Protectionism always fails," Forbes said.
"It gave us the Great Depression."

Even as he criticized Buchanan, Alexander was careful to make clear he shared
some of his rival's goals, if not his approaches.

Alexander, for example, promised to be tough with U.S. trading partners while
promoting open trade. And he said a wall wasn't the answer to stopping illegal
immigration, calling for a new branch of the armed forces to patrol the borders
instead.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Republican presidential hopeful Pat Buchanan stares at Lamar Alexander before
the start of a candidates' forum Thursday in Phoenix.
[960223 FR 8A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 FEBRUARY 26, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

GROUP IS WELL-KNOWN FOR AUDACIOUS TACTICS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 384 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


In today's Miami, few Cuban-American exiles are more audacious in their
anti-Fidel Castro efforts than those who call themselves Brothers to the Rescue.

The group got its start five years ago by patrolling the Florida Strait in small
private planes, dropping food and fresh water to Cubans who had risked their
lives in rafts to escape Castro's island. The fliers reported the rafts'
locations to the U.S. Coast Guard, which then arranged pickups.

When U.S.-Cuban relations thawed last year, the Clinton administration said
would-be immigrants would be sent back to Cuba. But Brothers to the Rescue found
a new way to pull Castro's chain - its members flew directly over Havana and
leafleted the city with anti-Castro tracts.

If they were trying to provoke an international incident, as some have assumed,
they got more than they bargained for. Four of their members may have been added
to the long list of Cubans who died for the anti-Castro cause when a Cuban air
force MiG-29 blew two of their single-engine Cessnas out of the sky Saturday.

Jose Basulto, 55, the Bay of Pigs veteran and Miami home-builder who co-founded
Brothers to the Rescue, has become a high-profile, outspoken member of Miami's
Cuban community. A fiery speaker in both English and Spanish, Basulto is often
invited to address anti-Castro rallies.

Basulto was flying the only Brothers plane that survived the encounter with the
Cuban air force. Whether or not the three planes had penetrated Cuban airspace,
Basulto has flown directly over Havana on previous occasions, and the Federal
Aviation Administration has begun an investigation.

Among the four men missing and presumed dead was Armando Alejandre Jr., 45, a
construction manager. Also missing was Mario de la Pena, 24, a native of New
Jersey who had never set foot in his parents' homeland. He piloted Alejandre's
plane.

In the second plane was pilot Carlos Costa, 29, who had buzzed Havana in July
when a Cuban gunboat rammed an exile yacht offshore. With him was Pablo Morales,
28, who came to the United States in 1992 after he was spotted on a raft in the
middle of the Gulf Stream by a Brothers plane.

Before Saturday's incident, Brothers to the Rescue had 15 pilots, five
twin-engine planes and hundreds of volunteers who served as spotters.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story [page 1A]

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Oswaldo Pla, left, Jorge Lares, and Lares' wife, Jackie, weep at Opa-Locka,
Fla., airport.
[960226 FR 6A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 28, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS KEY TO CALIFORNIA COMEBACK

BYLINE: SCOTT THURM, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 643 words


Small, technology-intensive companies and a large reservoir of immigrants have
led California out of the economic wilderness and positioned the state for a
bright future, according to a regional think tank.

In a report being issued today, the Center for the New West concludes that
California has emerged from its recession with a different economy, focused less
on defense contracting and aerospace and more on technology, entertainment and
trade.

The resoundingly optimistic evaluation is but the latest in a string of reports
hailing the great California comeback. Whereas three years ago it was hard to go
a week without reading California's obituary, hardly a day now passes without an
economist or commentator singing the state's praises.

Like many of the others, this entry comes with caveats: California must reform
and streamline its government, and resume investing in schools, highways and
other public works.

Written by new-age Democrat Joel Kotkin - now a senior fellow at the Pepperdine
University Institute for Public Policy - the report is resolutely even-handed in
its prescriptions. It urges both loosening of restrictions on contracting out
government services, typically favored by Republicans, and additional spending,
frequently sought by Democrats.

"Government has to earn back the people's trust," Kotkin said in an interview.

His report is familiar in many respects, but it offers two distinctive
perspectives: Other states suffered equally in the recession of the early 1990s,
and California rebounded more quickly; and immigrants are central to the state's
past, present and future success.

"I don't know how you could look at San Jose or Los Angeles or San Francisco and
say we'd be better off without immigrants," Kotkin said.

According to the report, one-third of the engineers in Silicon Valley are of
Asian descent; Hispanics in Los Angeles are creating businesses three times
faster than their numbers are growing; and six of the 15 largest industrial
companies in conservative Orange County are run by people born outside the
United States.

Those conclusions arrive amid a fierce debate about national identity that has
convulsed California for the last three years. Gov. Pete Wilson has led national
efforts to eliminate illegal immigration - including the Proposition 187
campaign to deny public services to illegals - and has endorsed proposals to
make legal immigrants ineligible for many government programs as well.

But Kotkin insists that the report's conclusions were not aimed as a shot at the
governor, and a top Wilson aide said they were not received that way.

"Gov. Wilson has without exception celebrated the diversity of California and
the contribution of immigrants," said Trade and Commerce Secretary Julie Meier
Wright, who will speak at the conference formally unveiling the report this
morning.

The report puts the California recession in perspective by comparing it to New
York, which lost an even greater percentage of its jobs and has recovered much
more slowly. While California has already exceeded its pre-recession job total
by some measures, New York is still lagging behind that standard and showing new
signs of stalling.

Moreover, the report claims that California is poised for even faster growth
because of its tremendous concentration of small, inter-connected companies that
rely heavily on brain power and technology.

California is home to almost one-fifth of the nation's high-tech workers, a
share that has been growing steadily since the 1970s, with a slight hiccup for
the recession. In new industries, the concentration is even greater: Roughly
half the Americans who work in biotechnology and multimedia are in California.

"In some advancing technologies, the only competing area for Northern California
is Southern California," Kotkin said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

               FEBRUARY 28, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 88 words


Defense Secretary William Perry ordered an investigation into charges of
increasing harassment and "witch hunts" by the U.S. military against gays in
uniform.
* Democrats, Republicans, business, labor and social service groups attacked a
bill that would cut the number of foreigners allowed to immigrate to the United
States. Opponents promised to lobby the Senate Judiciary Committee to split the
bill in two, separating new restrictions on legal immigration from popular
measures that get tough with illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 7, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

'RAGS' TO REALITY YOUNG ACTORS LEARN STORIES OF THEIR OWN FAMILIES AS THEY
RESEARCH PLAY ON IMMIGRATION STUDENTS DEPICT STORY OF RUSSIAN JEWS IN N.Y.

BYLINE: PHUONG LE, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 554 words


The school play opens with hope and anticipation: New York, circa early 1900s.

The actors - Saratoga High School students - play European immigrants who eye
Ellis Island from their ship's deck and dream of possibilities in America,
unaware of the struggles ahead.

For many of these teen-age thespians, rehearsing Joseph Stein's "Rags" - a
musical about immigration at the turn of the century - has become more than a
theatrical venture. Many are realizing that it's the story of their own
families.

To get into their roles, the students interviewed several recent immigrants to
the U.S. and watched documentaries about sweatshop conditions for immigrant
women in the early years of this century.

Sonya Slutsker, who came here in 1989 from the Ukraine, shared her story with
the cast and crew at a recent all-day retreat. Slutsker, who has since become a
U.S. citizen, is studying English at Jewish Family Service in Los Gatos.

Helen Shmolovsky, an immigrant from Moldavia who came here in 1990, also talked
to the students about her experience with past and current political
persecution.

"I think it brings it to life, being able to not only hear the story from the
lips of the people who lived those stories but ask questions," said Roberta
Bernstein, a Saratoga High parent who arranged for Slutsker and Shmolovsky to
talk with the students.

Two other immigrants, from Canada and England, were also part of the panel
discussion that drama director Danielle Igra arranged to prepare the student
cast and crew.

The students also watched a documentary on the "Triangle Shirt Factory Fire"
where young women, most of them immigrants, were trapped and burned alive in a
textile factory.

Though born in the U.S., 10th-grader Mandy Monousos said she connects with
moments in the musical - such as when an immigration official changes one
character's last name from "Hershkowitz" to "Harris" to make it easier to
pronounce. During rehearsals, she said, she discovered from her father that
their family name had been changed when her grandfather came through Ellis
Island from Crete.

"I didn't really think about my history until we started doing this," said
Mandy, 16, who plays a middle-aged widow.

"Rags" tells the story of Russian Jews who settle on the Lower East Side of New
York and how they adjust to living in a new world. Among them are young women
who find low-paying jobs in the sweatshops.

"You have to think about how to portray to the audience the seriousness of it,"
Mandy said, "and make them see how tough life was for these immigrants."

Tenth-grader Avik Maitra appreciates the historical lessons of "Rags." He plays
an affluent job recruiter who bribes, harasses and taunts immigrant workers,
particularly the women in the sweatshops.

"I hadn't realized that people were so cruel to these immigrants," said Avik,
14. "People think America is this great land without problems. And they come
here and it's a slap in the face. There's poverty, discrimination, a hard life
in the sweatshops."

Avik, whose parents came from India to study at Stanford University in the
1970s, said the musical has made him think more about how America became such a
"mixing pot."

"I don't think they got the same opportunity they expected, but that was the
price they paid for freedom," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Show dates are March 21-23 and 29-30 at 8 p.m. at Los Gatos High School's
Prentiss Brown Auditorium. Reserved seats are $8. Contact Janice Torczyner at
(408) 867-1280 or call Saratoga High School at (408) 867-3411 extension 203.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: PAT WEST - MERCURY NEWS
Saratoga High students Keri Klayko, Ari Rossen and Mandy Kemp rehearse at Los
Gatos High's auditorium; the play runs March 21-23, 29-30.
[960307 LO 1B 2; color]
PHOTO: PAT WEST - MERCURY NEWS
Students rehearse a scene of immigrants arriving at New York.
[960307 LO 1B 3; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MARCH 8, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION
                              Correction Appended

DRAMATIC GAINS BY LATINOS, ASIANS IN VOTER REGISTRATION

BYLINE: KEN MCLAUGHLIN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 815 words

"Motor voter." Proposition 187. Anti-immigrant legislation. Bilingual voter
outreach efforts.

Everyone has a theory to explain it, but one thing is clear: Voter registration
by Latino and Asian immigrants in Santa Clara County has surged in the past
year.

The number of Mexican-born voters skyrocketed 22.5 percent between February 1995
and January, according to the registrar's office. Voters from other
Spanish-speaking countries increased 11.4 percent.

For Vietnamese immigrants, the figure was 14.9 percent; for immigrants from
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, 11.6 percent.

The figures are particularly dramatic in the face of other statistics showing
that voter registration statewide has remained fairly flat. From April 1994
until January, according to the secretary of state's office, the rolls have
increased by only 67,154 voters, to 14.1 million. In Santa Clara County, the
overall increase is only 3.3 percent - and most of that is attributable to the
increase in foreign-born voters.

"There's a very simple reason for this," said Nguyen Duc Lam of San Jose, a
Vietnamese immigrant who has been involved in get-out-the-vote drives for years.
"Immigrants have been getting the message about the importance of voting."

Lam said his work has been made easier by legislation now moving through
Congress that would cut off welfare to legal immigrants and make it impossible
for many to bring their adult children and brothers and sisters to this country.
The proposals have encouraged immigrants to become U.S. citizens and voters as
soon as possible, he said.

Feeling threatened

"With anti-immigrant initiatives such as Proposition 187 (which would have
denied benefits to illegal immigrants) and attacks on affirmative action, people
are starting to feel threatened," agreed Alfredo Cruz of the Southwest Voter
Registration Education Project, which has launched a campaign to add 100,000
Latino voters to the rolls by November's presidential election.

Latino voter registration "has been building over the last 20 years, with the
trend exploding in the last year," Cruz said.

With the notable exception of the additional Vietnamese voters, who in the past
have overwhelmingly voted Republican, the registrar's statistics are great news
for Democrats, local political analysts say.

Doug Winslow, president of American Data Management in Mountain View, said that
Latinos register as Democrats three times as often as they register Republican.
The number of Asian-American Republicans and Democrats is about equal, he said.

Effect of 'motor voter' law

Winslow said that the federal "motor voter" law requiring that registration
forms be distributed in Department of Motor Vehicle offices and social service
agencies is beginning to have a dramatic effect on minority voter registration.

"I think this is an exciting byproduct of forcing Pete Wilson to enact motor
voter," Winslow said, alluding to the governor's unsuccessful legal attempt to
fight the legislation.

Even with the significant increase in foreign-born registered voters, they still
make up only 7.1 percent of the countywide total, up from 6.4 percent in
February 1995.

But many of the immigrants are concentrated in certain neighborhoods, where they
can become a powerful political force. More than half of the Vietnamese emigre
voters - 12,388 - live in the congressional district of Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San
Jose, Lam pointed out.

Bilingual campaign

Officials at the registrar's office would like to think that the county's
aggressive campaign to reach bilingual voters is the main reason for the jump in
immigrant registration.

Arguably the most comprehensive in the state, the 2-year-old effort involved
hiring three full-time bilingual workers - one Vietnamese, one Chinese and one
Latino. In addition, registrar employees now attend Immigration and
Naturalization Service swearing-in ceremonies.

Every voter in the county gets an English-Vietnamese or an English-Spanish
sample ballot, said Registrar Dwight Beattie.

"But our outreach program is only part of it," added Beattie, who noted that
ethnic organizations have made the registrar's efforts easier.

Registrar offices in Alameda, San Mateo and Santa Cruz counties say their
numbers for Latino and Asian immigrant voters couldn't be easily compiled. San
Mateo County, for example, designates foreign-born voters simply as "F's" in its
data bases.

In Alameda County, laws requiring the county to print voting material in Chinese
and Spanish prompted the office to create specialized voter outreach programs
for those communities. The county does not, however, have a system that can
quickly determine the programs' results.

CHART: CARL NEIBURGER - MERCURY NEWS
Registration gains
Source: Santa Clara County registrar's office
[960308 FR 22A 5; h. bar chart; color]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writer Theresa C. Viloria contributed to this report.

CORRECTION-DATE: MARCH 9, 1996

CORRECTION: SETTING THE RECORD STRAIGHT (publ. 3/9/96, pg. 2A)
A headline on Page 1A of Friday's Mercury News on an article reporting on voter
registration among Latinos and Asians was incorrect. Voter registration has
increased among Latino and Asian immigrants, not necessarily all Latinos and
Asians.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MARCH 8, 1996 Friday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

THE PLAY'S THE THING FOR IMMIGRANTS STUDENTS LEARN IT'S THEIR STORY

BYLINE: PHUONG LE, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 561 words


The school play opens with hope and anticipation: New York, circa early 1900s.

The actors - Saratoga High School students - play European immigrants who eye
Ellis Island from their ship's deck and dream of possibilities in America,
unaware of the struggles ahead.

For many of these teen-age thespians, rehearsing Joseph Stein's "Rags" - a
musical about immigration at the turn of the century - has become more than a
theatrical venture. Many are realizing that it's the story of their own
families.

To get into their roles, the students interviewed several recent immigrants to
the U.S. and watched documentaries about sweatshop conditions for immigrant
women in the early years of this century.

Sonya Slutsker, who came here in 1989 from the Ukraine, shared her story with
the cast and crew at a recent all-day retreat. Slutsker, who has since become a
U.S. citizen, is studying English at Jewish Family Service in Los Gatos.

Helen Shmolovsky, an immigrant from Moldavia who came here in 1990, also talked
to the students about her experience with past and current political
persecution.

"I think it brings it to life, being able to not only hear the story from the
lips of the people who lived those stories but ask questions," said Roberta
Bernstein, a Saratoga High parent who arranged for Slutsker and Shmolovsky to
talk with the students.

Panel offers insight

Two other immigrants, from Canada and England, were also part of the panel
discussion that drama director Danielle Igra arranged to prepare the student
cast and crew.

The students also watched a documentary on the "Triangle Shirt Factory Fire"
where young women, most of them immigrants, were trapped and burned alive in a
textile factory.

Though born in the U.S., 10th-grader Mandy Monousos said she connects with
moments in the musical - such as when an immigration official changes one
character's last name from "Hershkowitz" to "Harris" to make it easier to
pronounce. During rehearsals, she said, she discovered from her father that
their family name had been changed when her grandfather came through Ellis
Island from Crete.

"I didn't really think about my history until we started doing this," said
Mandy, 16, who plays a middle-aged widow.

"Rags" tells the story of Russian Jews who settle on the Lower East Side of New
York and how they adjust to living in a new world. Among them are young women
who find low-paying jobs in the sweatshops.

"You have to think about how to portray to the audience the seriousness of it,"
Mandy said, "and make them see how tough life was for these immigrants."

Historical lessons

Tenth-grader Avik Maitra appreciates the historical lessons of "Rags." He plays
an affluent job recruiter who bribes, harasses and taunts immigrant workers,
particularly the women in the sweatshops.

"I hadn't realized that people were so cruel to these immigrants," said Avik,
14. "People think America is this great land without problems. And they come
here and it's a slap in the face. There's poverty, discrimination, a hard life
in the sweatshops."

Avik, whose parents came from India to study at Stanford University in the
1970s, said the musical has made him think more about how America became such a
"mixing pot."

"I don't think they got the same opportunity they expected, but that was the
price they paid for freedom," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
Show dates are March 21-23 and 29-30 at 8 p.m. at Los Gatos High School's
Prentiss Brown Auditorium. Reserved seats are $8. Contact Janice Torczyner at
(408) 867-1280 or call Saratoga High School at (408) 867-3411 extension 203.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: PAT WEST - MERCURY NEWS
Saratoga High students Keri Klayko, Ari Rossen and Mandy Kemp rehearse at Los
Gatos High's auditorium; the play runs March 21-23, 29-30.
[960308 LO 4B SC]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 12, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRATION DEBATE NEARS BOILING POINT A HOT ISSUE ON SUPER TUESDAY, IT WILL
BURN IN CALIFORNIA

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1092 words

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Texas


As his half-ton Chevy pickup spits out gravel, Jim West makes a sunset tour of
his 1,600-acre piece of west-central Texas and pronounces everything under the
spectacular pastel sky - his wheat, his cattle - to be just fine.

But West, like his pioneering grandfather, makes his main living in the
hardscrabble oil fields nearby. And he's seen this tiny town through enough
boom-and-bust cycles to recognize a gathering economic storm - and wonder if
it's time to seal the border.

"We've got a lot of nice people here and we've got a lot of nice Spanish
people," West says casually. But with jobs in the oil fields declining, "we just
don't need any more."

When West goes to the polls in today's Super Tuesday presidential primary, he'll
have his pick of get-tough remedies. Republican candidates have been talking
about immigration with a forcefulness that resonates even here - hundreds of
miles from America's porous borderlands.

But border politics aren't likely to reach full boil until later this month when
the candidates reach California, where the heated debate promises to echo in
November's general election and in Congress as lawmakers consider the most
restrictive immigration policies in 30 years.

Though front-running Bob Dole is expected in today's contests to make his
nomination all but a formality, analysts say immigration will be amplified as a
campaign issue by the renegade candidacy of Pat Buchanan.

Buchanan's fence

The cable-TV pundit wants to build a fence at the U.S-Mexico border to halt
illegal immigration and shut down most legal immigration for five years. He has
tied the issue to concerns about free trade, declining wages, crime and a
decline in social values.

"Buchanan is going to hang in there until the convention in San Diego and he
will continue to beat the drum on immigration," said Calvin Jillson, chairman of
the political science department at Southern Methodist University.

Dole's need to assuage Buchanan's supporters, experts say, may have dramatic
impact on what he does as both the GOP nominee and as majority leader in the
Senate, where he will have to give his blessing to the immigration bill
Republicans hope to pass.

The pending legislation would establish a pilot verification system in states
with many immigrants, such as California, that would allow employers to check
the legal residency status of potential workers. Opponents say that is a first
step toward a national identification card. The legislation also would curb the
ability of U.S. residents to have their siblings and adult children join them in
this country, and calls for a crackdown on illegal immigration.

"Here's the danger: If a politician can appear more moderate on immigration by
appearing slightly more moderate than those who want to dig ditches at the
border and erect fences, that is going to be counterproductive," said Robert
Rubin, of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area.

"Buchanan can push for the Great Wall of China at our border and then someone
comes along talking about a national ID card or denying due process to
immigrants and they sound tame by comparison."

Here in Texas, where trade with Mexico was a $24 billion business in 1994,
immigration resonates only in pockets - along the border where immigrants are
overwhelming schools, and in the fields of the flagging oil business where
economic anxiety has taken over.

Richard Estrada, a member of the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform, which
has called for reductions in the number of legal immigrants and crackdowns on
illegal immigration, said Texas' longstanding ties to Mexico help distinguish it
from the wrenching debate in California.

"Still, we have reached a saturation point in places like El Paso, where they
have had to raise property taxes to deal with immigration, and people are
resentful about it," said Estrada, a Dallas newspaperman.

Throbbing migraine

If that resentment is an isolated ache in Texas, it is a throbbing migraine in
California, where Gov. Pete Wilson used illegal immigration to propel himself to
a second term in 1994. Voters that year also overwhelmingly approved a ballot
initiative he championed - Proposition 187, which would cut off public
education, social services and non-emergency health benefits to illegal
immigrants.

Wilson, Dole's California chairman, continues to press the immigration issue,
suing the federal government to pay the costs of incarcerating illegal
immigrants who break the law.

"In California, beating up on Latinos is good politics," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group. "I
don't think immigration is going to be a big national issue this year, but it's
going to be a big issue in regions that cannot be ignored - and that means
California."

That means President Clinton is expected to continue to trumpet his moves to
dramatically increase patrols at the border while doubling the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's budget.

It means Dole, who has called for a "modest temporary" reduction in legal
immigration and the elimination of services to illegal immigrants, is expected
to trumpet his endorsement of Proposition 187.

And it means Buchanan, who has warned "illegals are coming by the millions,"
will be in full-throated battle cry as his insurgent campaign moves west.

Support in California

The architects of Prop. 187, most of which has been invalidated in court, say
support for Buchanan's message is powerful in California.

"Pat Buchanan is not simply a little flea on the backside of an elephant," said
Bill Ong Hing, an immigration law expert at Stanford and founder and director of
the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco and East Palo Alto. "He has
a lot more credibility on this issue in California than elsewhere. If Pat
Buchanan wasn't going to be in California, maybe Dole wouldn't have to talk
about immigration, but now he has to."

Some Republicans worry Buchanan's California campaign will have the effect of
frustrating legitimate efforts to control legal and illegal immigration.

"If Pat Buchanan gets to these issues in California before Bob Dole does, he
defines the terms of the debate and it's no longer a debate between illegal
immigration and legal immigration," said Dan Schnur, a Republican strategist and
former Wilson aide.

"It becomes a debate about the cultural differences in our society, and that's a
much more dangerous debate to have and a much more difficult debate to win."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: the candidates' positions
Bill Clinton
Supports modest reductions in legal immigration. Opposes denying social services
to illegal immigrants. Administration has opposed making English the official
language.
Pat Buchanan
Backs five-year moratorium to reduce annual legal immigration to 233,000 from
880,000. Would deny automatic U.S. citizenship to babies born in U.S. to illegal
immigrants, and more than double the border patrol.
Bob Dole
Favors cutting off benefits to illegal immigrants but not legal ones. Pushing
official English. Would slow legal immigration.
Steve Forbes
Faults what he calls divisive GOP attacks on legal immigrants.
Sources: Associated Press, Reuters
MERCURY NEWSElection '96

GRAPHIC: Photos (4);
PHOTO:
Bill Clinton
[960312 FR 9A 1]
PHOTO:
Pat Buchanan
[960312 FR 9A 2]
PHOTO:
Bob Dole
[960312 FR 9A 3]
PHOTO:
[960312 FR 9A 4]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 16, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PARTICIPANTS SOUGHT FOR IMMIGRATION DISCUSSIONS

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff and Wire Reports

SECTION: RELIGION & ETHICS; Pg. 12E

LENGTH: 131 words


The Center for Ethics and Social Responsibility at the Graduate Theological
Union in Berkeley is seeking participants for the Voicing Values Project, a
series of five-hour conversations on immigration and affirmative action. The
discussions, which will begin next Saturday and conclude June 8, will focus on
the role that major institutions - government, family, education, business and
organized religion - play. At the conclusion of the series, conversations will
be analyzed and a report will be made public before the November election.

People interested in getting beyond political rhetoric and being part of a group
seeking workable solutions are invited to participate. The Graduate Theological
Union is at 2400 Ridge Road. For more information, call (510) 649-2560.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELIGION DIGEST

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 20, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT FAMILIES HAVE REVITALIZED THE U.S.

BYLINE: GORDON EUBANKS AND LEONARD LIU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 279 words


CONGRESS is moving too quickly to pass sweeping legislation on immigration that
would significantly damage U.S. economic growth, jobs, competitiveness, and the
cultural foundation on which America was built. In the rush to unfairly blame
immigrants for taking U.S. jobs and for burdening the American economy,
politicians have crafted legislation that targets all immigrants, legal or
illegal.
Legal immigrants have contributed greatly to the growth of this country - both
economically and culturally. Immigrants have rejuvenated economically depressed
neighborhoods in Los Angeles, Oakland, San Jose and Queens, New York, to name a
few examples. And while some immigrants abuse the welfare system, immigrants on
the whole use less in public benefits per person each year than native-born
Americans ($831 vs. $873, according to 1990 Census Bureau data). Moreover,
today's immigrants also play a crucial role in high tech industries.

The history of Silicon Valley is a testament to the contribution of immigrants.
While the transcontinental railroad of the 1860s was built through the
back-breaking work of Chinese coolies, today's information superhighway is being
constructed by a plethora of immigrant talent. Closing the door on this pool of
resources is hardly in the best interest of a country whose global economic
future depends on our high-tech leadership ability.

If the immigration bills pending in Congress get passed into law, we will all
suffer in the areas of business and family values. Illegal immigration should be
addressed in an effective and responsible manner, not by cutting legal
immigration levels which are vital to the economy.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ANOTHER VIEW
Gordon Eubanks, president and CEO of Symantec Corporation, and Leonard Liu,
president and CEO of Walker Interactive Systems, represent the Immigration
Reform Group in San Francisco.

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: GARY REYES - MERCURY NEWS
NEW AMERICANS - Ching-Kuan Liou and Minh Tri Than of San Jose were two of the
more than 1,700 people who became United States citizens during a naturalization
ceremony Monday morning at the San Jose Civic Auditorium. It was the largest
such ceremony ever held in San Jose.
[960320 ED 6B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MARCH 21, 1996 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

DEADLINE TIES INS IN KNOTS BUT IMMIGRANTS CAN STILL APPLY FOR IDENTIFICATION
CARDS

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 485 words


The line at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service offices in downtown
San Jose wrapped around the building for the third consecutive day Wednesday as
hundreds of immigrants tried to meet the deadline to renew their residency
cards.

After two years of extending the cutoff date, the government said enough was
enough. Wednesday was the final deadline - no extensions, no exceptions.

Thousands of immigrants in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Miami and New York waited
for hours on end for their turn at filling out the applications and handing over
their picture, fingerprints and a $75 processing fee to get the new,
"tamper-resistant" cards.

What will happen to as many as 500,000 immigrants nationwide who were expected
not to renew in time? Not much, actually. No fines will be leveled. No one will
be stripped of their residency.

Instead, those with residency cards issued before 1979 will simply face longer
waits re-entering the country after traveling abroad. Employers are being
instructed not to accept the old green-toned cards as proof of legal residency.
And government agencies such as the Social Security Administration and the
Department of Motor Vehicles will no longer consider the outdated cards valid
photo identification.

More than 1 million immigrants nationwide and 28,000 in the San Jose, Salinas
and Watsonville region already have applied for the cards since the renewal
program was announced in November 1993, INS officials said. But many shrugged it
off, conceded Bob Ackerman, head of San Jose's INS office.

"People have been procrastinating," he said. "They figure they can put this off
and we'll just keep extending the deadline."

As recently as two weeks ago, Ackerman sent an INS official to Salinas to renew
people's cards, but only 10 applicants showed up, despite a prominent
advertising campaign.

Applicants who stood in line for hours Wednesday noted various reasons for
waiting until the last minute, including the cost of applying, the time involved
and the perceived lack of urgency.

Several said that they finally took the step when at least one local
Spanish-language radio station incorrectly reported last week that immigrants
without the new cards would not be allowed to re-enter the country after going
abroad.

Upon learning that was untrue, Rosa Rodriguez, 39, a farmworker from
Watsonville, winced.

"You mean to tell me that my feet are getting all swollen for nothing?" she
moaned in Spanish.

People can still apply for the cards after the deadline. But they will probably
face processing times of eight to 10 months.

Applicants who submitted their renewals before the Wednesday deadline will have
to wait as long as six months to receive their new cards.

The INS said the cards - which previously had no expiration dates - will now
have to be renewed every 10 years in order to use the latest anti-fraud
technology.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: New INS card has a detailed eagle and a fingerprint.
[960321 LO 1B 2; color]
PHOTO: INS card as it appeared in 1972.
[960321 LO 1B MO 4]
PHOTO: RICHARD KOCI HERNANDEZ - MERCURY NEWS
People packed the INS office Wednesday in downtown San Jose.
[960321 LO 4B PE]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 21, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE IMMIGRANTS' JOURNEY IS OUR OWN

BYLINE: Joanne Jacobs column

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 849 words


AS Congress debates restricting legal immigration, I've been reading a family
history compiled by my father's cousin, CeCe Cohen Milder Cazanov.

My grandmother was born in the Ukraine in 1900. Her parents moved to Canada when
she was a toddler because her father's sister's family, the Nitikmans, had a
store in Winnipeg.

This "chain migration" - one family member brings over another who brings
another - is one of the prime reasons the bills in Congress bar immigrants from
sponsoring siblings and adult children, who might sponsor more relatives.

Of course, family helps family, making it easier to adjust to the new world:
Mrs. Nitikman set up her greenhorn Greenblatt brother as a peddler selling
needles, thread and fabric to Mennonite farmers around the town of Winkler.

The chain brought the family to the U.S. when my great-grandfather died of
appendicitis, leaving a widow and four children. My great-grandmother's brother
and sister in Omaha arranged a marriage, sight unseen, with a Russian junkman
named Garber, a widower with two young children.

Money was tight in the new household; food was short. After a year of marriage,
there was a knock on the door. It was a young Russian, a son that Garber had
never mentioned for fear of discouraging his new wife. Garber had been saving to
bring him to America.

A year later, there was a knock on the door. There was another young Russian.
Garber admitted he had two sons. The next year there was a knock on the door.
And the year after that. Garber had left four sons in Russia.

Immigrants have too many kids, Americans complain. Garber and my
great-grandmother had three more children; the grand total, including all four
Russians, was 13. But in the next generation, the average was two children per
couple.

Immigrants are uneducated, Americans worry, not counting the foreign-born PhDs.
CeCe's mother, Hannah, got a job as a typist at the age of 13. My grandmother
worked for a photographer. Their brother George was too hungry to finish high
school. "I quit school so that I could get a job and buy food to eat," he told
CeCe.

Yet they all prospered, more or less. Their kids went to college.

Most Americans have the same stories. The first generation struggled. The second
generation made it. Yet most Americans are dubious about the merits of today's
immigrants, often confusing those who come legally to make new lives here with
those who slip over the border.

Certainly, our society has changed since the Eastern European immigrants jumped
into the melting pot.

There are few good jobs for uneducated people. Still, there are many jobs for
people willing to work hard for low wages. Our economy relies on immigrants to
fill these jobs.

There's a welfare system, which means taxpayers may pick up the tab for those 13
children. However, legal immigrants use fewer government benefits overall than
native-born Americans.

I think most Americans would see legal immigrants as the heirs of our
grandparents, if the melting pot were still the dominant idea. Unfortunately,
multiculturalism has raised fears that immigrants no longer come to America to
become Americans, that they want to retain their language and their culture
rather than assimilating to ours.

Some immigrants do live in Spanish-speaking enclaves, which slows their
assimilation, but essentially this is a bum rap. Multiculturalism is a fad
promoted by native-born Americans, not by immigrants.

Bilingual education is pushed by native-born Americans, who tell immigrants it's
the best way for their kids to master English. Whether that's true or not, the
children do learn English.

The first generation doesn't always master English, but this is nothing new. My
great-grandmother learned only enough to follow "Stella Dallas" on the radio.
Her children were bilingual in Yiddish and English. Her grandchildren spoke
English only.

I think U.S. policy could give somewhat more preference to educated, skilled
immigrants, somewhat less to reunifying extended family members. We need to
enforce the sponsor's promise to keep relatives from becoming a public charge.
We need to help immigrants learn our culture and language, so they can
participate fully in our society. That is, after all, why they went to so much
effort to come here.

But today's immigrants are not much different from the immigrants of 1900, the
huddled masses yearning to breathe free, earn a living and duck the czar's
draft.

I'll close with my favorite story from CeCe's account, about my grandmother's
younger sister, Lillian.

Lillian was born in Canada. She let her U.S. citizenship application slide when
she learned the Winkler courthouse had burned down, destroying her birth
certificate. In her 60s, worried about her eligibility for Social Security,
Lillian finally got together the necessary documents. The final step was the
oral exam.

"When was the Louisiana Purchase?" asked the INS examiner.

"Oh! That was a long time ago," said Lillian.

"You are right!" said the examiner.

So Lillian passed, and became an American citizen.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Joanne Jacobs is a member of the Mercury News editorial board.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: Randy Mack Bishop
[960321 ED 9B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              206 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 24, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS, JOBS AND THE UNWELCOME MAT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7F

LENGTH: 895 words


THE recent amendment to the "get tough on immigrants" bill that seeks to bar
education to children of illegal immigrants is another step by America toward
isolationism and protectionism.

What is it that we fear from these immigrants? Are we concerned that they fwill
learn? That they will become productive members of our society? Or are we
concerned over the small expense of educating children who will repay that cost
to society many times over?

At some point, our families all immigrated to America, hoping for a better life
through opportunity, ambition, and hard work - not welfare. The only thing that
we stand to lose from the immigration of many thousands of men and women to this
country each year is the simple loss of our comfortable American complacency.

- Michael Sawka
Los Altos Hills
HEWLETT-PACKARD'S Pete Peterson (Opinion, March 20) justifies importing foreign
workers because companies can't find qualified candidates here.

It's hard to believe, with the best universities in the world and all the
high-tech companies in the Bay Area, that they can't find professionals to fill
these good paying positions.

Corporations should put more effort on training people and stop thinking of
quick fixes for their employment needs. I think with a little effort
Hewlett-Packard can find the 600 people that they need.

- Bob Maraschin
San Jose
HAS Rep. Tom Campbell (Letters, March 21) lost his mind? To say California has
always welcomed immigrants is ludicrous. We welcomed cheap labor. The current
anti-immigration movement is a long standing California tradition. It's
frightening that Campbell either does not know his history or is knowingly
trying to revise it.

- Ken Bushley
Redwood City
LETTER: MUSLIMS' ALLEGIANCE DOESN'T DISHONOR U.S.
AS a Muslim who was born and raised in this country, I identify myself as an
American Muslim (emphasis on Muslim), not a Muslim-American (emphasis on
American). It is from this perspective that I view, and support, Denver Nuggets
basketball player Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf's decision to abstain from honoring the
national anthems of the United States and Canada.

I see his stance from an Islamic perspective that rejects nationalism because of
the false divisions it creates between people. Appeals to nationalism were used
by the early enemies of Islam in their attempt to direct the Muslims'
allegiances toward their previous tribal affiliations and away from their
new-found religious community. It is this same destructive nationalistic spirit,
in modern times, that pits an Iraqi Muslim against a Kuwaiti Muslim in the Gulf
War.

The one billion Muslims of the world need to be united as one community under
the belief that there is only one god and that Muhammad is the prophet of god.
Our fundamental allegiance must be to the Islamic rules and practices that
govern our daily lives, not to the flags or anthems of the countries in which we
find ourselves, either by choice or by circumstance.

Now this same Islamic allegiance expressed by Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf, is viewed by
some Americans as a threat. It should not be. Americans can feel confident in
the citizenship of their Muslim neighbors. In fact, Americans should feel
fortunate to have Muslims as their neighbors, for our religion demands of us the
societal virtues of charity, fidelity, majesty, and sobriety.

Nations, flags, and anthems are ephemeral (reference the former Soviet Union, or
the former Yugoslavia), God is eternal. I will pledge my allegiance to The
Eternal, as Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf has done. And I will do right by my fellow
Americans in the process.

- Abu Nuh Carson
Santa Clara
LETTER: GET INVOLVED WITH SHELTER
YOUR editorial on the Santa Clara County Children's Shelter (Opinion, Feb. 15)
implies that there is no avenue for public scrutiny or open process to address
issues related to the shelter. This is not true. In fact, children's shelter
issues are Social Services Commission and Child Welfare Committee monthly agenda
items. Accordingly, issues of concern are debated by the Social Services
Commission which is comprised of community volunteers. These meetings are open
for public comments and attendance.

As a member of the Social Services Commission, the Child Welfare Committee, and
as a concerned citizen, I hope you will let your readers know that the
Commission provides a public forum to address concerns about the children's
shelter and many other Social Services Agency issues. All Commission meetings
are open to the public and a debate about the issues affecting residents of the
county are welcomed.

- Kathleen E. Lynch
Saratoga
LETTER: GROW A CALIFORNIA NATIVE
THANK you for your coverage of the recent eradication of non-native shrubs on
Mount San Bruno (Peninsula, March 17).

Planting native flowers, shrubs, grasses and trees in one's yard, patio or even
planter boxes - and avoiding the use of invasive non-native plants - is a simple
and extremely effective way for everyone to help California's ecosystems. Plants
that have evolved naturally, rather than those that have been introduced, bode
well for a sustainable system supporting diverse wildlife.

Taken a step further, volunteering through local, county, state and national
parks to work on projects such as the one on Mount San Bruno is both very
helpful and lots of fun.

- Georgia Stigall
La Honda

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: LETTER, ETC

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              207 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 MARCH 28, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ASIANS TOUTED AS KEY TO VALLEY;
STUDY: IMMIGRANTS FUEL HIGH-TECH BOOM

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 725 words


Without the skills, capital and entrepreneurial spirit of Asian immigrants,
Silicon Valley would not be the thriving high-tech mecca it is today, a new
report concluded Wednesday.

At a time when many are urging greater U.S. controls on immigration, "The State
of Asian Pacific America: Reframing the Immigration Debate," reinforces the
reasons why many local employers have fought such restrictions. It notes, for
instance, that an estimated 15,000 Asian immigrants are employed in Silicon
Valley, about a quarter of the region's high-technology workforce.

"It's remarkable the role immigrants have played in Silicon Valley, particularly
Asian immigrants," said Bill Ong Hing, Stanford University associate law
professor and the report's principal investigator, who has fought against
proposed restrictions on legal immigration. "Silicon Valley wouldn't be as
invigorating, as flexible and as creative without them."

The study was commissioned by the Asian American Studies Center at the
University of California, Los Angeles and LEAP, the Asian Pacific American
Public Policy Institute, a non-profit educational organization. Hing and his
fellow researchers said they hope to show policy makers that the benefits of
immigration far outweigh any perceived costs.

The mammoth study offers an analysis of the impact of Asian immigrants on
education, employment and civic participation.

Asian-Americans make up nearly half of Silicon Valley's manufacturing labor
force, it concludes. They not only fill critical scientific positions but, as
entrepreneurs, create jobs and push technology to new frontiers.

Many Asian immigrants have taken advantage of their ethnic ties to open new
markets in Asia, according to the report. As a result, Asian venture capital
funds have invested in start-ups here and Asian financial institutions have
opened branches here.

Asian-American entrepreneurs head 300 of the 800 high-tech firms in Silicon
Valley, the study found. Many started their own businesses after failing to
break through a "glass ceiling" at other firms. Indeed, 15 of the nation's most
prominent technology firms were founded by immigrant entrepreneurs from Asia and
elsewhere.

About 9,000 Asian-Americans - 57 percent of them women - comprise 47 percent of
the industry's blue-collar workers.

Critics who advocate tighter controls on immigration argue that such figures
illustrate how immigrants are snatching jobs from Americans.

"Many Silicon Valley high-tech immigrants displace American workers and are just
average workers," said Yeh Ling-Ling, a Chinese immigrant and founder of the
Diversity Coalition For An Immigration Moratorium, which is pushing for a
five-year moratorium on legal immigration with a ceiling of 100,000 a year. "We
have an over-supply of labor. We don't need more workers from elsewhere."

Norman Matloff, professor of computer science at the University of California,
Davis, who has researched the impact of immigrants on the computer industry,
also believes that employers favor immigrants for their cheap labor, not their
skills.

He pointed to 1990 Census data that shows average salaries for foreign-born
computer professionals in Silicon Valley were nearly $7,000 lower than for
natives of the same age and education level.

But CEOs maintain that when they seek the best people for key jobs, the most
qualified often are immigrants. Although wage levels may not be a critical issue
for blue-collar-type jobs such as assembly-line positions, companies must offer
competitive wages for engineers, whether they are immigrants or native-born,
Hing said. Wage information is reviewed by the state Employment Development
Department and the U.S. Department of Labor.

At Santa-Clara-based Intel Corp., the world's largest semiconductor
manufacturer, headed by Hungarian immigrant Andy Grove, about 20 percent of the
engineers are Chinese immigrants, according to the report. One hundred of the
300 engineers with advanced degrees hired by Intel during the first half of 1995
were on visas, according to company spokesman Tom Waldrop.

"When we go to the best schools, the best programs, there they are," Waldrop
said of immigrants. "And these folks don't come cheap because so many other
companies want to hire them. If we couldn't hire these people, we wouldn't be as
competitive."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
In conjunction with the report, round-table discussions will be held in various
cities that have large Asian-American populations. One is scheduled from 5 to 8
p.m. April 18 in San Francisco at Pacific Telesis, 140 New Montgomery St., 26th
floor. For more information, call LEAP, the Asian Pacific American Public Policy
Institute at (213) 485-1422.
SILICON VALLEY SUCCESS STORIES
Some Silicon Valley companies founded by Asian immigrants:
* Solectron Corp., a
Milpitas-based assembler of printed circuit boards, was co-founded by Taiwan
native Winston Chen.
* Lam Research of Fremont, a semiconductor processing equipment manufacturer,
was founded by Chinese immigrant David Lam. He also co-founded Expert Edge, a
Palo Alto software company.
* Komag Inc. of Milpitas, the world's largest supplier of thin-film media for
computer hard disk drives, was co-founded by Taiwanese immigrant Tu Chen.
* Cadence Design Systems of San Jose, which provides software and services for
integrated circuit and electronic systems design, was co-founded by Taiwanese
immigrant Yen-son "Paul" Huang.
* Genelabs Technologies Inc., a biopharmaceutical and diagnostics company in
Redwood City, was co-founded by Chinese immigrant Frank Kung.
* Sigma Designs Inc. of Fremont, a multimedia products manufacturer, was
co-founded by Vietnamese immigrant Thinh Tran, Hong Kong immigrant Jimmy Chan
and Taiwanese immigrant Jasen Chen.
* Qume Corp. a San Jose-based manufacturer of terminals, monitors and printers,
was founded by Taiwanese immigrant David Lee.
Source: "The State of Asian Pacific America"

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              208 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MARCH 31, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS IS SLOW TO HIRE, TRAIN NEW WORKERS CITIZENSHIP EFFORT STALLS IN RED TAPE
BUREAUCRACY: AGENCY SLOW TO HIRE, TRAIN NEW WORKERS TO PROCESS PAPERWORK.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1098 words


Nine months after Congress approved $76.6 million to speed the processing of
citizenship requests, San Jose has received no new naturalization officials and
the number of applicants served has dwindled to almost a third of what it was
before the extra funding was approved.

Most other heavily clogged offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
have increased the number of applications they're processing. But the numbers
dropped locally because the INS withdrew emergency staffers sent here to slash a
13-month backlog in citizenship applicants - the nation's longest.

The problems in San Jose are indicative of larger problems nationwide. The INS,
currently among the most politicized of government agencies, is drowning in
layers of bureaucracy, critics say.

"You can't move a finger without going through an endless line of managers,"
said an INS official in Washington, D.C., who did not want to be identified.

What went wrong in San Jose? Observers say most of the blame for the processing
delay rests with the agency's sloth in hiring and training new employees, and
also to congressional bickering that stalled funding for programs other than
border enforcement.

San Jose INS director Bob Ackerman said his office didn't get the green light
from Washington and the San Francisco district office to start hiring until
January, four months after the "Citizenship USA" program was announced.

He said his office expects to have up to eight new employees by the end of April
and five more by the end of May. Ackerman said he'd been moving as fast as he
could to hire new staffers. But on average it takes about three months to hire
and train them, he said.

"One of our biggest frustrations is that they (Congress) expect instant
results," he said. "But it doesn't work that way."

The delays come at a time when President Clinton and Republican presidential
candidate Bob Dole are striving to prove that they're tough on illegal
immigration. While many federal agencies have had their budgets slashed,
Congress and the president are throwing millions at the INS - doubling and
tripling funding at the border and in offices nationwide.

Last week, when the House passed a sweeping bill that would add 1,000 U.S.
Border Patrol agents each year for the next five years, Washington's microscopic
scrutiny of the INS intensified.

A year of waiting

But lost in the furor over illegal immigration are 800,000 U.S. residents who
have been waiting for up to a year for their chance to become citizens. As the
presidential elections get closer, their chances of making their voices heard at
the ballot box in November are waning.

Nowhere is this more evident than on the ninth floor of a building near San
Jose's Civic Center, where the INS has opened a new Citizenship USA office.

The office, which covers the entire floor, is supposed to house 20 staffers and
process about 3,500 applicants a month. But so far, only five staffers are on
board. The others are either training, moving or being hired.

As a result, last month the office processed only 709 out of more than 27,000
applications awaiting attention. This is particularly troubling because in
August, when Citizenship USA was announced, the office interviewed 1,952
applicants.

Local staff small

The temporary staffers who helped the office achieve that level of efficiency
left when Citizenship USA was announced. They were supposed to be replaced by
permanent hires, but that hasn't happened and the office has been left with its
core staff of five examiners, causing processing to plummet.

In Los Angeles, on the other hand, the staff has grown from 99 to 173 employees
and interviews have increased from about 650 a day last August to more than
1,600 a day in January.

Still, long delays in hiring Citizenship USA employees are not unique to San
Jose. Since INS Commissioner Doris Meissner announced the program eight months
ago, only 252 staffers have been hired to fill 555 positions approved for the
nation's five busiest districts.

INS spokesman Rob Koon said an additional 287 staffers had been hired but were
still being trained or were moving.

Antonio Gonzalez, president of the Southwest Voter Registration Education
Project in Southern California, said the delays in hiring are inexcusable. The
project, which works to increase the number of Latino voters, has strongly
criticized the INS for not reacting quickly to the mammoth rise in citizenship
applications.

$80 million not enough

It wasn't until more than a year after the numbers of citizenship applicants
began to skyrocket that the agency asked for increased funding. It took many
more months for Congress to approve the additional figures.

Even then, Gonzalez said, the $80 million finally appropriated is not enough to
handle the largest citizenship-applicant backlog in history.

"The INS . . . is the least effective of federal agencies," he said. "You have a
bureaucratic problem that is out of control. And it's made worse by a Congress
that does not have the political will to correct the problem."

INS officials are expected this week to require that the backlog of citizenship
applicants be cut severely by the end of the year.

Applicants such as Maclovio Hernandez, 65, of Santa Cruz continue to wait, made
more anxious every day by Republican talk of restricting benefits to legal U.S.
residents who are not citizens.

"It's been nine months now," the Mexican immigrant said in Spanish. "That's
enough time for a baby to be born. It should be enough time for them to finish
my application."

CHART:  MERCURY NEWS
INS HIRING
The San Jose office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service was authorized

 last August to quadruple its staff, to 20 people. But after some turnover, its
staff remains at five. Staffing at major INS district offices nationwide remains

 below authorized levels.
District      August New hires     On   Net
or office       1995 authorized board hires
Los Angeles       99        168   173    74
New York          50        139   141    91
Miami             22        108    53    31
San Francisco     45         84    85    40
San Jose*          5         15     5     0
Chicago           20         56    36    16
* Part of San Francisco district
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Citizenship applications in San Jose
Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service
[960331 FR 14A 1; h. bar chart]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charts (2)

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              209 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 2, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' BEATING VIDEOTAPED

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: SOUTH EL MONTE


A pursuit of a pickup packed with suspected illegal immigrants across Southern
California ended with deputies clubbing two people beside the truck as others
scrambled for freedom.

"It's another Rodney King," said Ramona Ripston, executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, who immediately called
for a Justice Department investigation.

Sheriff's deputies were videotaped taking numerous baton swings at two people
beside the vehicle.

At one point a deputy, holding his baton two-handed like a baseball bat, swung
repeatedly at a person prostrate beneath him. A handcuffed woman was slammed
against the truck.

The arrests followed a highway chase Monday that covered 70 miles from southern
Riverside County to eastern Los Angeles County and ended with the pickup pulling
over, its approximately 20 occupants dashing into brush and club-swinging law
officers subduing the pair.

Climactic moments were videotaped by helicopter TV news crews and broadcast by
Los Angeles stations KCAL and KCBS. The pictures from aloft were sometimes
jumpy, and the vehicle and brush sometimes obscured the events. There were no
immediate accounts of events during most of the rest of the chase.

Antonia Hernandez, Los Angeles president of the Mexican-American Legal Defense
and Education Fund, condemned the incident.

The sheriff's department immediately launched an internal investigation and
placed two deputies on paid administrative leave. The deputies' names were not
released, but the department said one deputy has been on the force for 21 years
and the other five years.

The videotape shows that after the truck was stopped, 18 of the passengers and
the driver bolted from it. Two of the occupants remained with the vehicle - a
female passenger in the front seat who apparently was unable to open the door
and a man who clambered out of the back of the truck to help her get free.

It was then, the videotape shows, that beatings began.

One deputy started clubbing the man about the back and shoulders with a baton.
The beating continued as the man fell, face down, to the ground.

When the woman got out of the cab, the deputy began beating her in the back with
a baton, then grabbed her by the hair and pulled her to the ground. At least one
other deputy struck her with a baton.

Neither the woman nor the man appeared to offer any resistance or make any
attempt to get away.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: The Los Angeles Times contributed to this report.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              210 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 4, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

MEXICO PROTESTS BEATINGS BUT ANALYSTS SAY OPTIONS ARE LIMITED

BYLINE: Esther Schrader, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 13A

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Despite Mexican officials' outcry over the police beating of undocumented
immigrants by Riverside County deputies, analysts agree their government is too
weak and vulnerable to jeopardize its rocky relationship with the United States.

"Mexico has become increasingly vulnerable, and especially now, in an election
year, Mexico can't risk becoming a very visceral part of the U.S. (presidential)
campaign," said Mexico City political scientist Denise Dresser, referring to
Mexico's emergency economic aid from the Clinton administration. "Focusing too
much on this issue could backfire."

Since the beatings were broadcast Tuesday, both the Mexican consul in Los
Angeles and the Mexican foreign secretariat have denounced the clubbings. Late
Tuesday, the Chamber of Deputies - the Mexican equivalent of the U.S. House of
Representatives - passed a resolution demanding "punishment and full application
of the law against those responsible for not respecting the rights of the
Mexicans involved."

No one censured

Although the Department of Foreign Relations expressed "profound concern" that
the beating could affect relations, Mexican officials have stopped short of
censuring anyone beyond the two sheriff's deputies involved. President Ernesto
Zedillo Ponce de Leon has kept mum on the issue. And Mexico's ambassador to the
United States has not commented, although a foreign-relations official said
Wednesday that the department "speaks for all of Mexico's ambassadors."

With the Mexican economy struggling to climb out of a 15-month crisis and its
future highly dependent on U.S. investors and government loans, analysts say
Mexico cannot take a stronger stance and risk angering the same U.S.
administration that helped bail it out of its current crisis.

"I think they will engage in a certain amount of furious letter-writing, raise
the issue of immigrant rights, but I don't think the Mexican government has any
leverage to take it beyond that stance," Dresser said.

Nor is Mexico in any position to condemn the United States for abuse of illegal
immigrants given its own dismal human rights record toward immigrants on its
soil, analysts pointed out.

"The truth is that Mexicans treat immigrants from Central America a lot worse,"
said Pedro Enrique Armendares, a historian and special assignments reporter for
La Jornada, a major Mexico City newspaper. "We live in a glass house that puts a
limit on the stones we can throw on this issue at anyone else."

Backing away from support

Armendares and other observers said that in recent years Mexico had moved
further away from supporting Mexican immigrants. They contend that U.S.-Mexico
accords to bolster border patrols put immigrants in danger.

Mexican officials deny the accusation.

"Nothing could be farther from the truth," said an official close to Zedillo.
"Institutionally there has never been greater concern on the part of the Mexican
government about the rights of Mexicans living in the United States. It does us
no good to disengage from the U.S. over this issue. We hope this was an isolated
incident."

Parties blame Wilson

The government's reticence has not stopped Mexico's three major political
parties from laying blame for the incident at the feet of California Gov. Pete
Wilson.

"The television scenes sadly depict how Mexicans are victims of brutal
aggression on the part of some authorities in that country," said Alejandro
Solarzo, a leader of the Zedillo's ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party
(PRI). "The attack on our people is no isolated incident. It stems from a
climate of violence created by Pete Wilson since the introduction of Proposition
187."

But although the story has played prominently in newspapers and on television,
it is competing for attention with this week's Easter holiday. Millions of
Mexicans have already left the capital on vacation. Many others, including
government officials, are on their way out of town or celebrating at home.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Related story [page 3B]

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Police take up positions in front of the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City on
Wednesday as a precaution against protests over videotaped beatings of Mexican
immigrants Tuesday by Riverside County deputies. No protests were reported.
[960404 FR 13A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              211 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 4, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEATINGS BY DEPUTIES SHOCKED THEIR BOSS SHERIFF VOWS PROBE WON'T BE A COVERUP

BYLINE: Jeff Wong, Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE


The videotaped beatings of two illegal immigrants by his deputies was a shocking
use of excessive force, Riverside County Sheriff Larry Smith said Wednesday.

"There will be no coverup," Smith told reporters, noting that investigations
were under way by his department, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department
and the FBI.

"No one is above the law," he said.

About 75 people chanting "Viva la raza!" protested the beatings outside the
detention center where Smith held his news conference.

"It's not an isolated incident," said Victoria Baca, president of the Mexican
American Political Association. "The only difference this time is that the video
cameras were rolling."

She said the beatings by the white deputies were "50 percent racism, 50 percent
hatred."

The beatings, which triggered comparisons with the 1991 videotaped beating of
Rodney King, strained relations with Mexico and prompted condemnation from
federal, state and local officials.

In Los Angeles, Yvonne Magdalena Flores, president of the Mexican-American Bar
Association of Los Angeles County, said she plans to file a federal lawsuit
today on behalf of the two immigrants who were beaten.

Deputies Tracy Watson and Kurtis Franklin were placed on paid leave after the
beatings.

Television cameras aboard circling helicopters caught the deputies clubbing an
unresisting man at the end of a 100-mph, 80-mile pursuit Monday of a pickup
truck from Temecula to the Los Angeles suburb of South El Monte. A woman, also
unresisting, was shoved face-first into the hood of the truck and then grabbed
by the hair and pulled to the ground.

Authorities began chasing the truck, crammed with at least 19 illegal
immigrants, on a Temecula road that commonly is used to circumvent an
immigration checkpoint. Debris reportedly was hurled at pursuers, and the truck
hit other vehicles during the chase. When the truck stopped, most passengers
scattered but were rounded up.

The woman, identified as Leticia Gonzalez, 32, of Xocheca, Mexico, had bruises
on nine areas of her body, a split lip and a possible concussion, her attorney,
David Ross, said Wednesday. She was released into his care.

Ross identified the second vic tim as Enrique Funez, 30.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Smith
[960404 CA 3B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              212 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 8, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE TROUBLE IS NOT WITH THE INS, IT'S WITH CONGRESS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 332 words


WHEN record numbers of immigrants began to apply for U.S. citizenship last year,
lots of people got worried, including us. Was the agency responsible for
handling the enormous task up to the job?

After all, the Immigration and Naturalization Service through the 1980s was an
administrative mess. Understaffed and underfunded, it had lost control of the
border and many of its own agents.

But the INS is much improved these days, thanks to the bipartisan effort to
shore up the long-neglected agency.

There has been a problem handling the rush to citizenship in the wake of
Proposition 187 in California and anti-immigrant hysterics from Washington. But
this time the trouble is not with the agency itself, it's with Congress.

As the Mercury News reported recently, the INS hadn't added any new
naturalization officers in San Jose while 26,000 citizenship applications piled
up beginning in late 1994. Los Angeles, New York and other big cities were in a
similar predicament. The reason was that the INS had not received about $80
million in new spending it was supposed to get to handle the crush.

The ongoing budget impasse and the two federal government shutdowns are partly
to blame. But the main reason appears to be the everyday, abysmally slow way
Congress authorizes new spending. By the time the check hit the bank, the INS
had lost about three months.

It appears to be catching up. Bob Ackerman, San Jose's INS director, expects to
have 10 new naturalization officers soon. And the INS office in Los Angeles is
"over the hump," says the National Immigration Forum, a liberal advocacy group
for immigrants' rights.

It's important that Congress and the White House work together to help the INS
push through every citizenship application in California before Oct. 29. That's
the last day new citizens can register to vote in November. Legal residents who
have worked hard, paid taxes and followed all the rules deserve the government's
speediest attention.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials: The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              213 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   APRIL 11, 1996 Thursday PENINSULA EDITION

CHP PROBES SLUR IN BEATING CASE

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 123 words


The California Highway Patrol worked Wednesday to determine whether an officer
was tape-recorded using an ethnic slur during the arrest of undocumented
immigrants beaten by Riverside sheriff's deputies. Television news helicopters
broadcast images across the nation of two Riverside County sheriff's deputies
clubbing two immigrants after a high-speed freeway chase April 1. A CHP officer
turned on his tape recorder during the chase and beating: "A bunch of wetbacks,
huh?" a voice asks at one point. "Yeah, all of 'em," another voice responds. CHP
officials emphasized they didn't know whether the slur was made by a CHP
officer, but promised quick action to train and discipline the officer if
confirmed to be from the CHP.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              214 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 11, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TRY PICKING A FEW STRAWBERRIES THE IMMIGRANT BEATING SHOWS THAT MEXICAN WORKERS
HAVE BECOME THE UNITED STATES' NEW VILLAINS,EVEN AS THIS COUNTRY NEEDS THEIR
LABOR.

BYLINE: CARLOS FUENTES

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 9B

LENGTH: 746 words


Has the United States an imperious historical necessity for a reliable foreign
villain?

And if so, who is to play that part, Soviet communism having been vanquished at
High Noon by the guys in the white hats?

The brutal aggression by two Riverside County sheriff's deputies against
defenseless Mexican workers highlights the current tension between Mexico and
the United States. It also casts Mexico, yet again, in the Eric von Stroheim
role in the ongoing U.S. melodramatic script: "The Country You Love to Hate."

Mexico, conveniently, is right next door. It is weak, in crisis, corrupt and as
defenseless as the two workers battered by the Riverside deputies. It is the
perfect scapegoat for evils generated inside and outside the United States.

Outside its borders, the United States faces a question so often posed by the
brilliant economist, Lester Thurow: Who will own the 21st century?

This dilemma stems from competition by Europe and Japan, the high-tech,
high-productivity, high-salary economies, not by low-tech, low-productivity,
low-salary Mexico. But it is far easier to blame Mexican migrants for budget
deficits, unemployment, costly social programs and even drug traffic.

Frustration and uncertainty easily breed irrational, defensive attitudes such as
racism and xenophobia. And anyway, where is the reliable villain that fueled
U.S. internationalism between Pearl Harbor and the fall of the Berlin Wall?

Mexico, the inevitable neighbor - incapable of employing its excess population,
seen as staging a silent invasion of its former territories in the U.S.
Southwest, perceived as inefficient and corrupt - becomes the ideal target for
many phobias and prejudices.

I do not mean to imply that the United States is an anti-Mexican or even a
xenophobic country.

But, especially in an election year, extremes and extremists do surface - for
example, the rhetoric of Patrick Buchanan, who agitates for a new Berlin Wall on
the border and the annexation of Baja California.

That this sort of demagogy has penetrated deep and wide is proven by a recent
article by Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Mike Royko, which I recently read in
the Chicago Tribune.

"Mexico," Royko writes, is "a useless country. And before its entire population
sneaks across the border, we should seize it and make it a colony." That is more
or less what Hitler said about Poland.

But the columnist doesn't stop there. He adds: "Just name one thing that Mexico
has done this century that has been of any genuine use to the rest of the
planet. Besides giving us tequila."

Well, Royko is fortunate in that his own ignorance defeats him. Forget Mexican
contributions to art, literature, architecture and music. Forget Frida Kahlo,
Diego Rivera, Rufino Tamayo, David Alfaro Siqueiros and Jose Clemente Orozco.

Forget the Nobel Prize in literature to Octavio Paz, in chemistry to Mario J.
Molina and in peace to Alfonso Garcia Robles.

Forget Placido Domingo singing "Granada" by Agustin Lara. Forget "You belong to
My Heart" in all the Muzak elevators, a tune by the Mexican composer Gabriel
Ruiz. Even forget that salsa now outsells ketchup in the United States.

But do not forget, as Mexico's excellent consul in Chicago, Leonardo French, has
reminded Royko, the enormous contributions made by Mexican communities to
Chicago and the Midwest for more than a century.

Do not forget Selena, Luis Valdez, Sandra Cisneros and so many Chicano writers
and artists who have enriched the culture of the United States.

And, most especially, do not forget that U.S. tables would lack tomatoes and
strawberries; restaurants lack waiters, hospitals lack employees, limousines
lack drivers, homes lack servants, gardens lack gardeners and a host of other
services would go unattended if not for the work of Mexican laborers.

Or would Royko be willing to stoop for his own strawberries?

Without Mexican workers, high prices and scarcity would plague the United
States. Wages and employment would suffer drastically.

In today's interdependent world - as Marlon Brando, who was passionately
distressed at the beating of the Mexican migrants in Riverside, pointed out on
CNN's "Larry King Live" - the movement of capital goes along with the movement
of labor.

But until both governments, Washington and Mexico City, can agree on clear,
predictable rules to deal with Mexico's offer and U.S. demand, police brutality,
xenophobia and racism will impose their own law.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: OPINION
Carlos Fuentes, a writer of novels, essays, poems and plays, has also been
Mexico's ambassador to France, a United Nations representative and a member of
various international commissions.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: DON WRIGHT - PALM BEACH POST
[960411 ED 9B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              215 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 11, 1996 Thursday SOUTH COUNTY EDITION

BILL PROPOSES AGENCY FOR NATURALIZATION

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 323 words


With the Immigration and Naturalization Service struggling to process hundreds
of thousands of applications for citizenship, U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer has
proposed reorganizing the INS to speed naturalizations and prevent the
accumulation of another backlog.

The Citizenship Promotion Act of 1996, which Boxer announced Wednesday in San
Francisco, would set up a Citizenship Promotion Agency inside the INS to carry
out naturalizations. Critics have long advocated the separate agency. Boxer said
one reason for the huge backlog of unprocessed naturalization applications is
that naturalization is "lumped together with inspections and other
non-naturalization activities."

Separate account

Now, the $95-a-person fee for naturalization, which is supposed to pay for all
naturalization services, is folded into the INS general budget and from there
can be allocated to other INS activities. Boxer's bill would require the fees to
be put into a separate account to use for the new agency as well as for services
to immigrants, such as English language instruction.

Responding to complaints about the INS's bureaucracy and lack of responsiveness
to public criticism, the bill would set up an advisory board of citizens and
non-governmental agencies to advise the new agency.

Boxer said she will introduce the bill when Congress convenes next week.

Funds to add personnel

Congress allocated $76.6 million last year to add personnel to INS offices to
clear the backlog of 800,000 naturalization applications, but the INS has been
slow to hire new staff members, and thousands of cases remain backlogged in
cities such as San Jose.

The bill would reward immigrants "who play by the rules, who wait for
immigration" but who have been neglected by an INS preoccupied with controlling
illegal immigration along U.S. borders, Vu Duc Vuong, executive director of the
Southeast Asian Community Center, said in an interview.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              216 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 12, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

TAPED BEATING CITED AS PART OF PATTERN

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 498 words


The videotaped beating of two undocumented Mexican immigrants by Riverside
County sheriff's deputies last week was only the most visible of many incidents
of violence against immigrants and members of minority groups, and law
enforcement agencies have not done enough to prevent similar incidents, speakers
said Thursday at an emotional forum at San Jose State University.

Although the beatings have been widely denounced by law enforcement agencies,
including police and sheriff's departments in Santa Clara County, anti-immigrant
political rhetoric "to a great extent justifies the violence against
immigrants," said Martha Jimenez, regional counsel for the San Francisco office
of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

"We were expecting something like this to happen," said Teresa Castellano, a
board member of the California Civil Rights Network, because emotions against
immigrants are running so high, leading to sour feelings and violence against
all minorities.

The incident showed why police and deputies should not be given greater
authority to pursue immigrants, said John Crew, director of a project overseeing
police practices for the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern California.
Congress is considering legislation to expand cooperation between immigration
and law enforcement authorities.

The forum, which was organized as part of the university's three-day Chicano
studies series, also featured representatives of the San Jose Police Department
and Santa Clara County Sheriff's Department.

San Jose police Lt. Mike O'Connor, who is responsible for internal
investigations, and Assistant Sheriff Ruben Diaz defended their agencies'
efforts to respond to citizen complaints about excessive police violence.

Diaz and O'Connor said their agencies also try hard to reduce the chance that
officers involved in high-speed chases, such as the one that preceded the
beating by the Riverside County deputies, don't take out their anger and
frustration on people they arrest.

Neither law enforcement agency, they said, takes part in pursuits of
undocumented immigrants except in cases in which a crime has occurred.

Diaz, O'Connor and several members of the audience held a discussion, at times
heated, about whether law enforcement agencies need to do more, such as setting
up citizen review boards to respond to citizen complaints about police shootings
of Latinos.

"We are human beings, not animals, and we shouldn't be treated like this," said
Rachel Perez, one of several members present from a community group that has
coalesced around the March 2 killing of Gustavo Soto Mesa, which it links to a
greater pattern of law enforcement violence against minorities.

A criminal investigation in the shooting was completed by the San Jose Police
Department and presented to the district attorney's office, which is preparing
to present the case to the grand jury.

An internal sheriff's department investigation is ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              217 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 15, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

LATINO IMMIGRANTS TODAY RESEMBLE WHITE 'IN-MIGRANTS' WHO MOVED TO CALIFORNIA TWO
MIGRATIONS, ONE WHITE, ONE BROWN

BYLINE: David E. Hayes-Bautista and Gregory Rodriguez

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7B

LENGTH: 1098 words


WHAT kind of a future could you envision for a population group that had a 25
percent poverty rate, a 50 percent chance of not completing high school, barely
9 percent of whom were college graduates and more than half of whom arrived in
California only recently? Such a group, many agree, would be doomed to become a
state burden. Of course, this is because most people would identify the group as
Mexican immigrants.
In fact, the statistics make up a composite sketch of California's non-Latino
white population in 1950. Not reflected in the figures, however, are the values
and industry of the people who would eventually turn California into a virtual
nation-state.

Yet, America's belief that the hard work and dreams of humble immigrants are the
engines of the future has given way to immigration-reform activists' and the
federal government's new stated preference for foreign-born professionals and
millionaires. Some scholars worry about the "quality" of the contemporary
immigrant, as if years of schooling summed up human potential.

In a state whose population is now 25 percent foreign-born and in which nearly
one-quarter of its largest immigrant group is poor, overlooking the values, work
ethic and character of the "huddled masses" not only ignores California's -
indeed America's - secret to success in the past, but endangers our collective
future.

From 1940-70, the immigrants who nearly tripled the state's population were
considered an essential economic asset. The foundation of postwar California was
laid with civic money and a broad consensus to invest in the new population. The
largely Midwestern in-migrants were provided with the resources for commerce,
development and research, which, when combined with their vigor and character,
created wealth. Californians not only celebrated growth, they were willing to
pay for it.

Republican Gov. Earl Warren, whose administration oversaw the highest population
growth rate in 20th-century California, welcomed the young population. He said
he preferred the "job seekers" to the older, wealthier immigrants of the 1920s.
Even with the many problems that mass migration brought, he saw the newcomers as
energy to be harnessed.

Warren's embrace of the state's newest arrivals extended to the poor. In 1950,
poor people were not regarded as a dysfunctional, victimized sector of society
incapable of abiding by society's norms and values and then later condemned for
their behavior. Still built into the common understanding of people was a belief
in their capacity to improve their lot over time.

Today, those who predict doom for California's struggling immigrants are just as
likely to be pro-immigrant liberals as right-wing nativists. The nativists think
poorer, less educated immigrants bring the rest of society down. The "liberal
structuralists," as Cornel West calls them, have emphasized the political and
economic obstacles that can impede a people's progress but virtually ignore
those people's ability to scale such barriers. Absent is the notion of social
capital - the values, behaviors and attitudes that people bring to their new
surroundings.

Berkeley sociologist and historian Franz Schurmann believes that the greatest
growth potential in capitalist society can always be found in those people who
have the capacity to work for long periods, have strong social and family bonds,
are forward-looking and have a religion that encourages a communal view of life.
He stresses that these cultural qualities flourish best when the state
encourages them.

Latino immigrants today are, in their values and behaviors, much like the
earlier generation of in-migrating whites who benefited from an exuberant civic
spirit. Indicators such as labor-force participation, family formation, birth
rates, education and poverty levels for whites in 1950 and Latino immigrants in
1990 are remarkably similar. Take away issues of race and language of origin and
you are left with profiles of two young, hard-working, family-oriented and
church-going populations. Of course, with the rise of white economic and
educational achievement came a simultaneous decline in family formation, work
force activity and birth rates.

Today, California's non-Latino white population is aging - nearly one in two is
older than 40 - and having too few children to replenish itself. In 1950, these
whites formed families with children at a rate comparable to contemporary Latino
immigrants. The percentage of white households in 1990 consisting of a
traditional mother, father and child family is nearly 70 percent lower than it
was four decades ago.

The largest-scale foreign immigration in this century began arriving after the
state's dominant group had reached a plateau, and California began to contract
both spiritually and economically.

In a perverse twist on the "The Field of Dreams," the state, since the
mid-1970s, has retreated from investing in infrastructure. "If you don't build,
they won't come." Four decades ago, a high white birth rate kept the
school-construction business humming. During the post-war years, school
construction bonds were passed by nearly unanimous votes. Today, too little is
done to ease the overcrowding in predominantly Latino schools.

A combination of disregard for the newcomers and an almost apocalyptic view of
the future keeps us from harnessing the social capital of new immigrants.

Instead, we pass and enforce laws that hamper the immigrant drive. When we
should praise low-income Latino immigrants for their strong work ethic and
having the lowest rate of welfare use of any poverty group in the state - only
17 percent of immigrant Latinos in poverty collect welfare, compared with 50
percent of poor whites and 65 percent of poor blacks. Rather than welcome and
work with an enthusiastically pro-law-and-order population, lawmakers and
enforcers have, according to a recent opinion survey by the Tomas Rivera Center,
made a majority of Latino Californians, half of whom are immigrants, feel they
receive unequal treatment from law-enforcement agencies.

The greatest influx of Latino immigrants California has ever seen came at a time
when it had already ceased to believe in incorporating migrant dreams into
policy. The spirit of the Golden State is now middle-aged and looks more to the
past than to the future. As were the postwar pioneers, the new immigrants and
their children should be allowed and encouraged to achieve their goals. The only
ingredient lacking is the native-born population's political and economic will
to invest in the future.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
David E. Hayes-Bautista and Gregory Rodriguez, associate editors at Pacific News
Service, are, respectively, executive director of the Alta California Research
Center and research fellow at the Pepperdine Institute for Public Policy. They
wrote this for the Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: RICHARD MILHOLLAND - LOS ANGELES TIMES
[960415 ED 7B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              218 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 20, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

ANTI-TERRORISM PROPOSAL HOLDS SOME SURPRISES

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 95 words


Hundreds of thousands of foreigners who entered the United States illegally
could face removal from the country without judicial review under the
anti-terrorism bill approved this week by Congress. The measure, which President
Clinton is expected to sign next week, has several little-noticed immigration
provisions - a faster process for shipping out illegal immigrants; reduced
courts rights for reviewing deportation and exclusion cases; and on-the-spot
authority for immigration officials in deciding the fates of asylum-seekers
arriving without travel documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              219 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 23, 1996 Tuesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

RAISING ESTEEM OF ASIAN GIRLS;
WORKSHOP: 'SISTER TO SISTER' FOCUSES ON IMMIGRANTS CAUGHT BETWEEN CULTURES.

BYLINE: CAROLYN JUNG, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 554 words


Chentra Chap knows how trying it can be to grow up Asian and female in a strict
culture where boys are often more valued and privileged.

As a refugee, Chap fled war-torn Cambodia without her parents. From age 10, she
was raised by her oldest brother, who never let her date, didn't always have
time for her and tried to limit her to attending a local vocational college
rather than a four-year university away from home.

On the outside, she was the model student and dutiful sister. But inside, she
often felt as if no one understood her and no one was around to guide her.

To instill greater self-esteem and leadership skills in Asian-American girls who
are struggling between two cultures, a conference geared specifically toward
them will be held April 29 at San Jose State University.

"Sister to Sister: Celebrating Asian Women of Tomorrow" will include workshops
on women's rights, Asian women's identity, drug awareness, and relationships and
sex education - subjects often not easily broached in Asian immigrant families.

The conference is sponsored by San Jose State's Sigma Omicron Pi Sorority and
San Jose's The Place, believed to be the country's only outpatient
substance-abuse treatment program for Asian-Americans ages 13 to 20.

"Asians are considered model minorities," said Mona Shah, case manager at The
Place and chair of the conference. "Many of these girls are stereotyped as the
smart girls, that they couldn't possibly have any problems. The reality is there
are Asian girls who aren't doing as well as everyone thinks."

It's difficult to gauge how many girls are having trouble because most studies
and youth programs are geared toward boys, said Naomi Nakano-Matsumoto, The
Place's clinical manager. Indeed, organizers hope to survey the girls who attend
the conference to learn more about what services are needed.

At The Place, male clients outnumber female clients two to one. But that may
just indicate that troubled boys are typically easier to identify than girls
because they tend to act out more, Nakano-Matsumoto said. Girls oftentimes
implode rather than explode. Their grades may drop only slightly; they may
suffer depression and bouts where they need an unusual amount of sleep.

"Because of role and gender expectations, girls have a harder time coping,"
Nakano-Matsumoto said. "They feel a lot of double standards. In some ways, they
feel like second-class. And they have no one to really talk to, because they're
not supposed to complain."

About 70 teen-age girls, referred by San Jose high schools, youth agencies and
probation departments, are expected to attend the conference. The majority are
from immigrant families. Some have delinquency problems, but others may be
struggling simply from a lack of confidence.

Fifty people - including local attorneys, police officers, Asian-American women,
San Jose Police Chief Lou Cobarruviaz and Santa Clara County Supervisor Mike
Honda - have donated funds to sponsor girls to the conference. About $2,500 has
been raised so far, but Nakano-Matsumoto said still more is needed to
accommodate all the girls who wish to attend.

Speakers will include KPIX news reporter Thuy Vu, Mercury News Staff Writer
Donna Kato, San Jose police Officer Connie Chung, attorney Lovely Dillon and
counselor Maria Josue.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
The conference, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. April 29, will be held in the Almaden Room at
San Jose State University. Anyone interested can help sponsor a girl to the
conference by donating $25 to pay for registration, lunch and a T-shirt.
Sponsors also can attend the luncheon for $15. For more information, call The
Place at (408) 271-3900.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              220 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 APRIL 25, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IN OTHER ACTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 186 words


Legal immigration will rise dramatically this year, with 41 percent more getting
residency than in 1995, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service
projections.
* Republicans on the Senate Whitewater Committee sought to show that President
Clinton had used his powers as Arkansas governor to award state office leases to
James McDougal, his partner in the Whitewater land venture. As Whitewater
hearings resumed after a lapse of seven weeks, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., the
panel chairman, said there is evidence that "lucrative contracts" to lease
office space were given to McDougal in return for campaign contributions that
McDougal, the owner of Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan, arranged for Clinton.
Democrats ridiculed the theory.
* President Clinton signed into law an anti-terrorism bill that he said strikes
a "mighty blow" against those who would use violent tactics to advance their
political aims.
* Congressional leaders agreed to repeal legislation that would have forced the
Defense Department to oust members of the military who tested positive for the
virus that causes AIDS.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              221 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 26, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AFRICAN ASYLUM-SEEKER FREED FROM DETENTION

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 9A

LENGTH: 82 words


Fauziya Kasinga, who sought sanctuary in the United States in 1994, saying she
was escaping her African tribe's custom of cutting off the genitals of young
women, was released by federal immigration authorities after more than a year of
sometimes harsh confinement. Immigration officials said they decided to free
Kasinga, 19, of Togo, because she has developed strong ties to religious and
human-rights groups who have promised to support her and insure she shows up for
legal hearings.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Washington News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              222 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 26, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATE REJECTS LEGAL-IMMIGRATION CUTS 2 BIDS FAIL: ADVOCATES APPLAUD DENIAL OF
THE FIRST MAJOR SCALEBACK IN 70 YEARS.

BYLINE: Thomas Farragher, Mercury News Washington Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 664 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Amid stirring allusions to Lady Liberty's lamp, the Senate easily rejected
attempts Thursday to trim legal immigration to the United States - diminishing
chances for any cuts in family reunification programs this year.

"I don't want to tear down the Statue of Liberty," Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas,
said before the Senate voted 80-20 to defeat an amendment to trim legal
immigration by 10 percent for the next five years.

Two attempts failed

The measure, sponsored by Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., would have made it far more
difficult for the adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens to immigrate.
Simpson tried to attach the legal-immigration restrictions to a bill that would
sharply reduce illegal immigration.

A separate attempt by Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California to cap
legal immigration by family members of citizens and permanent legal residents at
existing levels was turned aside by a 74-26 vote.

Immigration advocates cheered Thursday's action, saying the lopsided votes
effectively kill a 17-month drive to deeply reduce legal immigration for the
first time in more than 70 years. The House last month also balked at making
legal-immigration reductions part of a bill aimed at cracking down on illegal
immigrants.

"This Congress wants to preserve our tradition as a nation of immigrants and
this says deep cuts in legal immigration are unacceptable to both parties," said
Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, a
pro-immigration group.

Sharry said Simpson blundered by seeking to make legal-immigration cuts part of
the popular illegal-immigration bill instead of waiting to debate each issue
separately. A separate bill targeting legal immigration is pending, but the
Senate's action reduces the likelihood that Congress will pass legislation
addressing legal immigration this year.

Simpson, chairman of the Senate Immigration subcommittee, called his
legal-immigration cuts modest and even more justified because of new figures
that show legal immigration to the United States is expected to jump 41 percent
this year.

These latest projections from the Immigration and Naturalization Service show a
dramatic spike in legal immigration after a 10.4 percent decline in lawful
immigration last year. Much of the boom reflects delayed paperwork changing the
status of people now in the country illegally rather than a flood of immigrants
from outside, senators noted.

Some Republican lawmakers charged the INS with deliberately delaying the release
of those figures until support for legal immigration cuts sputtered in Congress.

"Truth is alien to this administration when it comes to immigration reform,"
said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Immigration subcommittee.
Simpson said that about 75 percent of Americans want curbs on both legal and
illegal immigration. He said failure to do that "will contribute even more to
the general cynicism about Congress."

Predicts rising anger

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which favors strict cuts, said the Senate placed the desires of most Americans
below the wishes of labor, business and high-tech groups to bring in foreign
workers.

"I think we're seeing the failure of political leadership on this issue while
the country gets madder and madder," Stein said.

But many senators - telling stories about ancestors' harrowing ocean-crossing
trips to reach the United States - said legal-immigration cuts are foolhardy.
Some argued that Simpson's measure wrongly would allow spouses and minor
children of permanent-resident entrants to enter the country legally while
excluding the adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens.

CHART: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Legal immigration
Projected number of legal immigrants [through 2002]
Source: Statistics Division, Immigration and Naturalization Service
[Chart not in database]
[960426 FR 8A]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              223 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  APRIL 28, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

BEATING HELPS HEAL BLACK-LATINO RIFT UNIFYING: THE TWO GROUPS ARE INCHING TOWARD
WORKING TOGETHER AGAINST POLICE VIOLENCE.

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 1030 words


Almost as soon as two white Riverside County sheriff's deputies were videotaped
beating two Mexican immigrants near Los Angeles on April 1, "Riverside" passed
over many tongues in the same breath as "Rodney King."

Yet three weeks after the beating on the shoulder of Highway 60 in South El
Monte, this second explosive videotape of white police beating a minority person
during an arrest has not yet produced the violent protests that some feared.
Instead, it has unexpectedly, and still tentatively, spawned the healing of a
rift that yawns between the black and Latino communities.

Long divided over immigration, and competition for jobs, housing, public money
and just about every other public good, black and Latino groups are inching
toward working together against police violence. Some already are working for
increased participation - through voter registration especially - of minority
communities in politics.

Piece of the chain

"It's another piece of a long chain where the immigration community and the
African-American community are saying yes, this is really our battle together,"
said Laura Castellanos, executive director of the San Francisco-based National
Sanctuary Defense Fund.

Pro-immigration groups - many Latino and most on the political left - largely
sympathized with blacks in 1991, when white Los Angeles police officers were
videotaped beating black motorist Rodney King.

Not always sympathetic

Sympathy has not always run both ways. Blacks have long been resentful of
Latinos as competition for low-skill jobs and, given the speedy growth of the
Latino population, for resources in general. In 1994, Latinos overwhelming
rejected Proposition 187, which sought to exclude undocumented immigrants from
public health and education services, as racist, unsafe and divisive. A majority
of black voters were among the 59 percent of those casting ballots who voted for
it.

"Now what you hear people talking about is James Baldwin's quote, 'If they come
for you in the night, surely they will come for me in the morning,' "
Castellanos said, referring to both Latino and black groups.

"There is interest in both of the communities about police reform," concurs Joe
Hicks, an African-American who heads the Multicultural Collaborative in Los
Angeles. In San Jose, the NAACP passed a motion condemning the Riverside
beating.

"I think that there has been more activity between blacks and Mexicans since
Prop. 187," as well as disputes over affirmative action, and efforts to build a
"Rainbow Coalition," said Wester Sweet, a long-time black civil rights activist
from San Jose who worked with Latino groups, such as the United Farm Workers.

Still, the Riverside beating showed "police brutality is equally set upon
minorities as well as black minorities," Sweet said. "Some people tend to think
that all violence is on blacks."

Police practices

Opposition to police violence in the Riverside case is widely shared. More than
70 percent of Americans polled by the Los Angeles Times agreed that the
Riverside deputies used excessive force in the beating.

Yet whether police practices need reform, and what reform, remains in hot
dispute. Integral to answering these questions, but also hotly contested, is the
question of whether racism, poor police training or the apparent illegal status
of the Mexicans played a more significant role in the Riverside beating.

Civil liberties groups see a link between public fears over immigration and
police violence. They are fighting proposals in Congress to allow local law
enforcement agencies to work more closely with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in apprehending undocumented immigrants.

Not everyone sees this immigration-police violence link.

Not an immigration issue

"I don't think the immigration status of those people should make them any less
a human being," said Helen Hui, a San Francisco lawyer who is president of the
Organization of Chinese Americans. She said, "This shouldn't be an immigration
issue. If they were dogs, the ASPCA (American Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals) would be out there."

Also on her side is Peter Nunez, a San Diego resident who is a former federal
prosecutor and Bush administration official. "I defy any law enforcement
official anywhere to demonstrate that beating people under those circumstances
was in any way justified," Nunez said. Yet he continues to support Proposition
187.

The Federation for American Immigration Reform, a leading immigration reform
group, does not support the deputies' use of violence in this case, but also
doesn't see the link to immigration. "There are countless examples of this kind
of thing happening to people who are not illegal immigrants," said Ira Mehlman,
FAIR California spokesman.

With these disputes still ringing in ears, even long after the nightly news quit
showing the beating videotape, some question whether the do-something momentum
created by the beating will actually produce anything.

The Rodney King beating and events that led to riots in 1992 were investigated
by a high-powered citizen team headed up by now-Secretary of State Warren
Christopher. It made a number of recommendations for improving the Los Angeles
police department. Hicks, the Los Angeles multicultural activist, has seen few
of them implemented.

He's as optimistic about the talk of a budding Latino-black alliance. "Have I
seen it in reality? No."

Pain still sharp

A year passed after the Rodney King beating before L.A. exploded in riots. It is
early, then, to assess whether the Riverside beating will leave more than a
scratch on politics or policy.

Yet in Latino neighborhoods, if nothing else, the Riverside beating gouged
emotions deeply, and the pain is still sharp.

Although the beating happened in Southern California, repeated television
showings of the videotape has left the Latino community "traumatized," Jorge
Gonzalez, chairman of Raza Si!, a Latino rights organization in San Jose.

"I don't know what will happen in L.A. Here in town we may not have a riot or
that really violent type of reaction, but I think people begin to feel a lot
more alienated."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              224 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                    MAY 5, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

FOR VIETNAMESE, ROBBERIES CAN BE DOUBLE JEOPARDY IMMIGRANTS FREQUENTLY BECOME
VICTIMS AS WELL AS SUSPECTS IN HEISTS OF HOMES, HIGH-TECH FIRMS

BYLINE: STORIES BY RAOUL V. MOWATT, DEAN TAKAHASHI AND BRANDON BAILEY, - MERCURY
NEWS

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 18A

LENGTH: 819 words


Some in the Vietnamese-American community fear they are being doubly hurt by the
recent wave of computer chip crime.

Many victims of recent computer chip heists - the high-tech company workers and
executives, who are often brutally assaulted as well as robbed - have been
Vietnamese immigrants.

At the same time, most takeover robberies on the West Coast are blamed on
loose-knit gangs of young Vietnamese men. A San Jose police sergeant in 1991
testified to Congress that criminals of Vietnamese descent were responsible for
70 percent of the city's high-tech thefts. And in the biggest investigation
targeting chip thieves to date, 60 of the 63 people arrested in one day this
year had Vietnamese surnames.

Local Vietnamese leaders and activists said that's an issue the community must
confront. But they also fear a backlash if this becomes stereotyped as a
"Vietnamese crime."

"Maybe the impact is not immediate (but) we anticipate that . . . it will create
some kind of unfavorable environment for Vietnamese workers," said Nguyen Duc
Lam, an educational consultant active in San Jose's Vietnamese community.

Since the 1970s, Vietnamese immigrants have provided much of the brain power and
labor that turned Silicon Valley into the technological heart of the world. Now,
there are signs that chip crimes are having a subtle impact on the Vietnamese
community and the high-tech industry.

"You don't like to think it, but subconsciously it's there. . . . If two or
three Oriental (strangers) come to the door, everyone's on alert, even if
they're in business suits," said Art Fonda, chief executive of Piiceon, a
company that has been robbed several times.

Job-hunting travails
Some complain
of discrimination
Community activists say they've heard stories about Vietnamese applicants
finding it harder to get jobs at high-tech firms.

There is something of a paradox. Thuan Nguyen of the Vietnamese-American Chamber
of Commerce said local high-tech firms frequently ask his group to publicize job
openings. But one business owner, an Asian-American who asked for anonymity,
acknowledged that he discriminates against Vietnamese applicants for fear of
being robbed.

FBI agents and San Jose police officials stressed that members of the Vietnamese
community were especially helpful in their most recent investigation, by
forwarding information and identifying potential suspects.

"I can tell you one thing: Our biggest supporters are the Vietnamese community,
the law-abiding ones," said San Jose police Capt. Mike Micelli. "They've been
pounding on our doors to have us do something."

Not only Asians
Other ethnic groups
among those arrested
Experts said there's nothing inherently "Vietnamese" about high-tech crime.
Federal authorities in February arrested a ring of white New Englanders in
connection with an armed robbery that netted $700,000 in computer chips from a
company in Maine. Police also suspect a group of South Americans is responsible
for hijacking recent component shipments here.

Since the early days of Silicon Valley, newly arrived immigrants have found jobs
as low-paid assemblers in electronics shops. Those with educations or greater
ambition have founded companies, and some have cultivated ties with business
operators overseas.

At the same time, as with every immigrant group in U.S. history, a criminal
element arose to victimize its own community. Vietnamese gangsters knew that
fellow immigrants were mistrustful of banks and likely to keep cash and
valuables at home. Gangs or "crews" of robbers began invading Vietnamese homes,
where they would tie up, beat and torture residents.

Eventually, authorities said, they think the crooks learned the value of
high-tech products.

Is action too late?
Cops praised, but early
intervention is sought
Today, most community activists praise police for going after the robbers. But
some complained that authorities only seemed to step up their efforts when the
crews targeted prominent businesses, instead of immigrants' homes.

"There's a sense that if they had put out that kind of effort 10 years ago to
eradicate the home robberies, there wouldn't be as much of the high-tech
robberies now," said Vu-Duc Vuong, executive director of the Center for
Southeast Asian Refugee Resettlement.

Vuong also said that local officials have not given enough support to community
programs aimed at keeping Vietnamese youth away from the lure of gangs and
crime.

Many activists agree that high-tech crime is an issue they can't ignore. After a
recent chip-theft investigation netted scores of arrests, many in the community
noticed that most were Vietnamese immigrants.

"Something like that makes everybody concerned," said Diem Ngo, executive
director of Vietnamese Volunteer Foundation, a non-profit group that runs
anti-gang and educational programs for families. "It becomes a community issue."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: CHIP THEFT: AN INDUSTRY UNDER SIEGEA two-day Mercury News special report
examines how a violent surge incomputer chip thefts has transformed Silicon
Valley high-tech firms

NOTES: Related story [page 1A, 16A, 17A & 18A]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              225 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  MAY 8, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

U.S. AND MEXICO STRENGTHEN TIES CROSS-BORDER CONFLICTS STILL AN EXPLOSIVE ISSUE

BYLINE: Esther Schrader, Mercury News Mexico City Bureau

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


Ending two days of high-level talks between the United States and Mexico,
officials Tuesday signed 11 minor accords to increase cooperation on a range of
topics including health, the environment, education and transportation.

But while the talks demonstrated a spirit of growing cooperation between
neighbors, the United States and Mexico remain deeply divided over the
contentious issues of migration, fair trade and drug trafficking.

"We've made progress in solving our common problems, in building on what I
believe to be the most positive relationship we have ever had between Mexico and
the United States," said U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. He led the
delegation of nine Cabinet members to Mexico City for the 13th annual
U.S.-Mexico Binational Commission.

But Mexican Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria, Christopher's counterpart,
tempered that optimism, referring obliquely to the cross-border conflicts that
strain neighborly good will.

"Not everything has been resolved," Gurria said at a signing ceremony hosted by
Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon. "But whatever comes up has a
forum in which it can be discussed."

One issue that came up repeatedly during the talks was anti-immigrant sentiment
in the United States. The Mexican government has complained bitterly about
recent violent incidents involving Mexican nationals in Southern California,
including last month's beatings of two suspected illegal Mexican immigrants by
sheriff's deputies and two fatal truck accidents after U.S. Border Patrol
vehicles followed undocumented Mexicans.

At Mexico's insistence, U.S. officials signed an accord reaffirming laws that
protect the human rights of Mexicans in the United States, and of Americans in
Mexico.

"The border between our nations is one of the most dynamic in the world," Gurria
said Monday at the outset of the U.S. delegation's visit, voicing frustration
that what Mexicans see as a clear issue of human rights, many Americans perceive
as simple law and order.

"Far from perceiving it as a place in which to build new walls, we should
promote the creation of a region of shared prosperity."

On two of the thorniest trade issues there was silence: whether Mexican truckers
can drive on U.S. roads and whether the United States will repeal its 5-year-old
embargo on Mexican tuna. Both were supposed to have been settled soon after the
North American Free Trade Agreement took effect in January 1994.

But the accords signed Tuesday did include advances on some significant issues.

U.S. officials promised to help Mexican authorities fight money laundering. In
the next few days Zedillo is expected to sign legislation making money
laundering a criminal, instead of civil, offense.

Anti-narcotics officials say traffickers are shipping millions of drug dollars
into Mexico, where they are filtered into the legal banking system. Washington
agreed to share information and techniques on detecting and apprehending
money-launderers, and Mexican officials vowed to force banks to report
questionable transactions.

The United States and Mexico also agreed to take steps to clean up the filthy
2,000-mile Mexico-U.S. border by creating the first binational air-quality
management basin to combat pollution in El Paso, Texas, and its twin city,
Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and to share geographical data on remote areas of the
frontier.

The two governments also agreed to collaborate on developing and commercializing
renewable energy.

"These may not be the last of our problems, and none of these issues can be
solved all at once, but we are finally in the position where these issues can be
discussed," said Albert Fishlow, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in New York.

"The new relationship between Mexican and American officials is really good, in
that they have established this network of informal contacts."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: Christopher
[960508 FR 14A 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              226 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 10, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANT SUES OVER BEATING BY TWO DEPUTIES LAWSUITS CHARGE RIGHTS VIOLATION AND
EXCESSIVE FORCE BY OFFICERS

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 433 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


One of two illegal immigrants clubbed by Riverside County sheriff's deputies
after a high-speed chase filed two lawsuits Thursday alleging his civil rights
were violated and that deputies used excessive force.

The lawsuits, filed in federal and state courts on behalf of Enrique Funes
Flores, are the latest legal moves stemming from the April 1 beating that was
videotaped by television news helicopters.

Funes, with his right arm in a cast and his right leg wrapped in a brace,
appeared with his wife at a news conference at the Center for Human Rights and
Constitutional Law. He called the beating "a terrible ordeal."

"I trust and pray that justice will be done for all persons involved in this
case," Funes said, reading his prepared statement in Spanish.

While attorney Peter Schey acknowledged his client was in the United States
unlawfully, the punishment should be "deportation, not a savage beating on the
side of a freeway," he said.

Funes, 26, suffered various physical injuries from the beating and as a result
suffers from depression, anxiety and severe emotional distress, according to his
lawsuits.

The suits seek unspecified damages because the amount, if any, "should be made
by a judge or a jury, not by me," said Funes, who left after reading his brief
statement, refusing to answer reporters' questions.

Named as defendants are Riverside County and sheriff's deputies Tracy L. Watson
and Kurt Franklin, who remain on paid leave pending the outcome of an
administrative investigation.

Tom DeSantis, a spokesman for Riverside County, said he had not received copies
of the lawsuits and therefore couldn't comment.

Lawyers for the deputies didn't immediately return telephone calls seeking
comment.

Funes was laid off at a chocolate factory in Mexico City and came to the United
States to get work to help feed his three children, ages 1, 5 and 9, Schey said.

He became one of 18 illegal immigrants crammed into a pickup that led
authorities on an 80-mile freeway chase from Temecula to South El Monte.

While the driver and passengers fled, Funes stayed behind to help a friend from
Mexico City, Alicia Sotero Vasquez, who was stuck in the cab behind a passenger
door that stuck against a guard rail, Schey said.

Both Funes and Sotero were beaten by the two deputies.

According to the lawsuits, the deputies "without a warrant, necessity, reason,
lawful justification or provocation . . . beat, clubbed, struck and hit
plaintiff numerous times with a billy club."

Lawyers for Sotero said they probably will file a similar lawsuit within a
month.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Wearing a leg brace, Enrique Funes Flores of Mexico attends news conference in
Los Angeles.
[960510 CA 3B 2]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              227 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 10, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

DEADLY PURSUIT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 618 words


SPEED kills. That's why the U.S. Border Patrol requires agents to drop
high-speed pursuits rather than risk fatal crashes.

So why are we seeing high-speed chases almost weekly on the nightly news?

At least 10 suspected illegal immigrants died and two dozen were badly hurt last
month when the trucks carrying them crashed while being chased by Border Patrol
agents. The first day in April brought us a wild chase on a busy freeway and the
videotaped beating of two undocumented suspects by Riverside County deputies.

Given that border checkpoints are harder to sneak through, and that more
Mexicans are desperate enough to go around them, we need to ask how well Border
Patrol agents heed their own pursuit policy.

On paper it's clear: Do not pursue if "the danger posed to the public, the
officers or the suspect is greater than the benefit of apprehending the
suspect."

This policy has the priorities right. Illegal Mexican immigrants aren't violent
career criminals. Most of them are average men and women who want to earn a
living wage, or children who want to reunite with their parents.

The coyotes who smuggle them are a different story. They take terrible chances,
and often prey on the people who pay them for passage across the border. They
should be aggressively prosecuted when they're caught. But catching them is not
worth risking the lives of their passengers, whose crime is being poor and
desperate for a better life.

The chases wouldn't take place if the coyotes just stopped for the Border
Patrol. But responsibility for the danger of chases has to be shared by the
agents behind the wheel and other law enforcement officers who are increasingly
joining them.

If the Border Patrol and other agencies can't get their officers to heed a
sensible pursuit policy, then we can expect more crashes. And immigrants won't
be the only ones killed or injured. Citizens have been hurt before when speeding
vehicles carrying immigrants jumped curbs and rammed into pedestrians. Nothing
but sheer luck prevented a big, deadly crash in the Riverside County chase.

Dropping a pursuit doesn't mean giving illegal immigrants the green light.
Alternatives are right there in the Border Patrol's handbook: Use radio to track
smugglers' vehicles, pick up the pursuit at another point and at reasonable
speed, or search for the suspects later from information obtained during the
chase, such as a license plate number.

The reason for today's increasing number of high-speed pursuits is that border
enforcement is pushing illegal immigrants farther from cities. It's no longer a
quick run across the line at San Diego, where you can quickly vanish on foot.
Now getting across may mean hiking 50 miles over the mountains to a distant
pickup point, then being driven back to a city.

Border enforcement has always been a cat-and-mouse game and it won't change
anytime soon. But we can gradually reduce illegal immigration from Mexico if
both nations face up to the powerful push-pull forces behind the problem.

The answer in Mexico is economic development that puts ordinary people to work
in decent-paying jobs. Here, the solutions include getting tough on unscrupulous
labor contractors and industries, especially agribusiness, that recruit and
exploit illegal immigrants.

Here's something worth exploring: More visas for low-skill workers who could
meet the demand for such labor not being met by native-born American workers.

Expecting border guards to stop illegal immigration by chasing trucks is like
expecting beat cops to solve poverty, organized crime and drug abuse on their
own. We can get real about illegal immigration or we can wait for more accidents
to happen.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: EDITORIAL

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: This truck was filled with illegal immigrants. Seven were killed and 18
injured when the truck flipped during a Border Patrol chase last month near the
California-Mexico border.

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              228 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 10, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

INS SPEEDS CITIZENSHIP PROCESS ADDED STAFF CREDITED FOR UPSURGE IN S.J.

BYLINE: JEORDAN LEGON, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 667 words


The San Jose office of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
two months ago trailed the rest of the country in the number of citizenship
applications processed, is now cranking up the speed for thousands of aspiring
citizens.

The office expects to process 4,500 applicants this month, six times the number
interviewed in February with bare-bones staffing, said Richard Brown, acting
director of San Jose's INS office.

Fourteen examiners - nine more than two months ago - have made the upsurge
possible, Brown said. And the office plans to add six more by the end of June
thanks to faster training and increased funding from the agency's "Citizenship
USA" program.

As a result, tens of thousands of foreign-born naturalized citizens will have
the opportunity to vote in their first election in November, Brown said.

"We're anxious for everybody to be on board and hoping to meet our goal to bring
the backlog down to six months by the end of this year," Brown said.

San Jose's current nine-month backlog puts the city in the same league as Los
Angeles, New York and Chicago, where, for months, immigrants eager to become
citizens have complained about long waits for interviews.

But delays have substantially improved compared with last year. San Jose's
projected backlog in 1995 was 18 months - the longest in the country.

Applications surging

Additional workers, increased funding and shorter waits come at a time when the
number of citizenship applications at INS offices across the country continues
to skyrocket. Applications are up 28 percent nationwide in the first six months
of this fiscal year over last fiscal year, an INS official said.

The San Francisco district office, which oversees San Jose and other Northern
California cities, reports a 20 percent increase over fiscal 1995.

The office has gone from receiving 5,000 cases a month in fiscal 1994 to about
9,000 a month in fiscal 1995 to 11,000 each month in the first six months of
this fiscal year, said Thomas Schiltgen, director of the San Francisco district.

Several factors have contributed to the application boom: Congress' proposals to
bar immigrants who are not citizens from receiving government benefits; the
passage of California's Proposition 187 in 1994; and a mandate that many legal
U.S. residents renew their immigration I.D. cards, which prompted thousands to
become citizens instead.

Grateful applicant

Pat Nguyen, 34, a Vietnamese immigrant who went in for her citizenship interview
this week 11 months after applying, said she was ecstatic about the prospect of
voting for a U.S. president.

"I thought, 'I'm not going to get to vote in November,' " she said, sitting in
the waiting area of the San Jose office. "But today I am here. It's good they
are making things go faster."

The leased office on the ninth floor of a building near San Jose City Hall is
crowded with 75 chairs in the waiting area, every one of them taken.

Extra chairs ordered

Paula Clayton, the head of the office, said there are so many applicants being
interviewed that she had to order extra chairs last week so that people wouldn't
have to stand.

The staff has been so busy that there hasn't been time for the traditional
inaugural festivities that usually accompany the opening of new INS offices.

"We're under so much pressure to interview people that it's difficult to have
any kind of celebration right now," Brown said.

There are so many new citizens being processed that attendance records have been
set at the last three swearing-in ceremonies in the San Jose Civic Auditorium
downtown. The next ceremony, May 29, is expected to break another record with
about 2,000 new citizens being handed their certificates, Brown said.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Citizenship application processing accelerates
Source: U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service
[Chart not taken in this database]
[960510 LO 1B 3; vertical bar chart]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News wire services contributed to this report.

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              229 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 13, 1996 Monday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SENATOR HELPS OVERCOME RED TAPE FOR TINY IMMIGRANT MOM'S LONG WAIT ENDS WITH A
HUG

BYLINE: Helen O'Neill, Associated Press

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 779 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


Karolina Bladek has spent most of her short life swaddled in red tape.

Until Saturday - when it all unraveled in her mother's kiss.

The 2 1/2-year-old Polish girl, accompanied by her grandfather, trotted off the
plane from Warsaw at John F. Kennedy International Airport and tumbled into her
mother's arms for the first time in two years.

Clutching a giant stuffed lion, Regina Bladek whispered her daughter's pet name
- "Karolinka, Karolinka" - terrified that the toddler wouldn't recognize her.

Karolina's response sounded magical to her mom.

"Mama Regina," she cried in Polish, squeezing her mother's face. "I remember you
from the pictures."

This was no typical immigrant family reunion.

A U.S. senator had to intervene on Karolina's behalf. And a relatively rare
immigration procedure called "humanitarian parole" had to be approved before she
could enter the country.

For two years Karolina was stuck in Poland, shuttled from one relative to
another, while in Enfield, Conn., her parents waited in their dim basement
apartment - at a loss to understand why their daughter was prevented from
following them to America.

"How can you keep a baby from her mother?" said a sobbing Regina Bladek, who
last saw her daughter April 9, 1994, when Karolina was 8 months old. "How could
I have stayed away?"

Karolina's convoluted journey began in 1993 when Greg Bladek, 24, and his
22-year-old wife won green cards in an immigrant lottery.

The green cards would allow the Polish couple to emigrate to the United States,
where they could live, work and raise their baby.

"America was our future," Greg Bladek said.

No home of their own

In recession-racked southeastern Poland, he worked in construction, and Regina
Bladek was a hairdresser. They lived with his parents because they couldn't
afford a place of their own.

Lottery visas come with strict requirements and deadlines - health checks,
administrative forms, proof of financial support. The Bladeks met them all,
right down to the tiny passport photo of their 4-month-old baby.

Then Karolina got pneumonia. Worried about the effect of the journey on her
health but under a deadline to enter the United States by April 1994, the
Bladeks left their daughter behind with relatives. They assumed she could join
them when she had recovered. Meantime, they would live in Connecticut, where the
husband had cousins and the promise of a job.

But when the time came for Karolina to join them, her parents were told the
baby's papers had expired and their only recourse was to file a "petition for
alien relative" - a process that takes about three years.

Didn't understand

The couple said they were afraid - mistakenly - that if they returned to Poland
to see her, they would not be permitted back into the United States.

"There was no doubt that the baby was entitled to be here," said Mark Stephanou,
an aide to Sen. Christopher Dodd, D-Conn. "But once they let her visa expire,
they were in trouble. They had to show exceptional circumstances, and that is
very difficult to do."

Stephanou got involved in Karolina's plight after a friend of the family turned
to his office for help. He put together a packet of papers - doctors' letters,
documents, references from the couple's employers - along with a personal plea
from the senator.

"I think it would be tragic to keep this young couple separated from their only
child because Karolina's health and her parents' misunderstanding about our
immigration laws prevented her from securing a visa," Dodd wrote. "I urge you to
grant this request for parole."

Humanitarian parole is approved for emergency cases in which foreigners are
permitted into the country on relatively short notice. About 2,000 to 3,000
people a year get it, mainly for medical reasons such as an organ donation or
bone-marrow transplant.

'Extremely rare'

In Rome, Joseph D. Cuddihy, the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service's
district director for Europe - and the man who decided Karolina's fate - called
her case "extremely rare."

"This was an extraordinary sequence of events," said Cuddihy, who, two months
after receiving the package from the senator, approved Karolina's parole on
March 1.

Even then, Karolina couldn't simply hop on a plane to America.

There were forms to fill out, documents to be stamped and a string of official
procedures to follow.

Finally Saturday, the little Polish parolee skipped through the airport gate and
into her new life.

"Now life can begin here for me," Regina Bladek said, ex claiming at everything
about Karolina, from her tousled brown curls to her constant chatter. "Now we
are a family again."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo;
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Karolina Bladek and her mom, Regina, get reacquainted Saturday after a nearly
two-year separation.
[960513 FR 14A 1; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              230 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   MAY 24, 1996 Friday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHITE FOLKS ARE NOT TO BLAME FOR EVERYTHING

BYLINE: Gregory P. Kane

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 670 words


WHAT IS America's most highly educated ethnic group? Hint: It ain't Asians.

Stumped? I'll give you another hint: Think black.

As in black African immigrants. According to the May 11 issue of the Economist
magazine, "America's roughly 200,000 black African immigrants, who account for
15 percent of the foreign-born black population, are the most highly educated
ethnic group. ... Three-quarters have some college experience; one in four has
an advanced degree."

The median income for black African immigrants is $30,000. Black immigrants from
Jamaica earn even more than the Africans. Blacks born in the United States - oh,
excuse me, I mean African-Americans - have a median income of $21,548, according
to the Economist. The African-American poverty rate is 31.6 percent, higher than
those for blacks from Cuba, Haiti, Jamaica, Trinidad and Africa.

Why the difference, the magazine's editors queried? They offered a host of
reasons: the likelihood that immigrant blacks will marry and thus bring in two
incomes; the likelihood that black immigrant families will have both parents in
the home; the willingness of black immigrants from both Africa and the Caribbean
to form credit clubs to start businesses.

I have a theory of my own. Black immigrants come here looking to themselves as
their own leaders. They haven't been inculcated with the doctrine of the
black-liberal-Democrat leadership that the majority of native-born blacks
follow. You know what the doctrine is. The one that says white racism is to
blame for virtually every ill afflicting black America.

White racism causes black teen pregnancies. White racism causes the staggering
homicide rate among young black men. White racism leads blacks to abuse drugs.
White racism causes blacks to do poorly academically. White racism leads to
blacks having a disproportionate amount of earwax than other ethnic groups.
White racism, white racism, white racism.

When I was in Air Force basic training, my drill sergeant, a wise country boy
from the mountains of Tennessee, chose me to be a squad leader. Whenever I - or
my squad - screwed up, he chewed my butt for it. When I offered an excuse he, in
effect, told me what I could do with it.

And along about now, the white racism excuse being used to explain away the more
uncomfortable aspects of African-American life is sounding like an excuse. And
it's not because white racism doesn't exist. Plenty of it exists, yet immigrant
blacks are able to overcome it while native-born blacks seem to blame it for
nearly everything - from failing to start businesses to being unable to tie our
own shoes. If white racism were the primary barrier to blacks being more
successful, shouldn't it affect all blacks equally - native and foreign born?

Those of us who have shed the "blame whitey" reflex will say yes and suggest,
lovingly but forcefully, that maybe native-born black Americans simply need to
get on the ball. We're being outperformed by nearly every immigrant group in the
country: East Indians, Asians, Africans, eastern Europeans and Caribbean blacks.
The time for excuses is over.

White racism can't account for the black homicide rate. As one of our sisters
points out in the rap hit "Five O'Clock In The Morning," it's not a white man's
finger on the trigger.

White racism can't account for the black teen pregnancy rate. When two black
teens get together and decide to have sex, white folks are somewhere else
minding their own business.

White racism is not to blame for the thinking among black youth that academic
achievement is a "white thing." That daffy idea took hold among black youth
sometime in the 1980s. It is they who gave birth to it, who suckled it, nurtured
it and have nearly honed it to perfection.

What black Americans need is fewer excuses about why white racism makes them
fail. We need to awaken to the liberating, even exhilarating, realization that
we can succeed on our own and fail on our own without any help from white people
whatsoever.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Opinion
Gregory P. Kane is a Baltimore Sun columnist.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: Gary Viskupic - Newsday
[960524 ED 6B 3]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              231 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 8, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

PANEL DISCUSSION ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Mercury News Staff Report

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 84 words


Several aspects of immigration and United States policy on it will be the
subject of a panel discussion sponsored by the World Forum of Silicon Valley at
7:15 p.m. Thursday at the Marriott Hotel, 2700 Mission College Blvd., Santa
Clara.

Panelists will be Roy Beck, author of "The Case Against Immigration," Hope Frye
of the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law, and Yeh Ling-Ling of the
Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium. Mercury News reporter Sarah
Bachman will moderate.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              232 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 9, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

AMBITIOUS IMMIGRANT ENSNARED HARDWORKING ENTREPRENEUR ACCUSED OF SMUGGLING GUNS

BYLINE: DAN REED, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1437 words


For alleged arms smuggler Hammond Ku, America made good on its promise of
prosperity for those willing to work hard and long.

From the day he arrived in San Francisco from Taiwan in 1973 with $600 in his
pocket, Ku labored tirelessly in several small restaurants. He carefully
invested his money until he owned seven houses and a thriving San Jose cafe.

But the man who had spent his nights in a $775,000 Saratoga home that offers a
sweeping view of the valley sits in a halfway house in San Francisco's
Tenderloin district, surrounded by liquor stores, sex shops and street people.
Ku was released from jail after posting $1 million bail, on condition that he
stay in the halfway house.

His family and friends say he was a model immigrant, building the American
Dream, toiling hard and steering clear of trouble. But prosecutors say Ku
masterminded a high-stakes deal to smuggle 2,000 machine guns into the United
States and that he'd planned to bring in even deadlier weapons, including rocket
launchers that "could take out a 747," he told an undercover agent.

According to the federal indictment filed last week, Ku had been importing
"munitions from foreign countries, including the People's Republic of China,"
for more than 15 years.

Ku, 49, has pleaded not guilty to a federal complaint naming him, his sister,
Linda Huang, his friend Richard Chen, and 11 others, seven of whom are still at
large, in a complex deal purportedly to supply gang members and a Miami mobster.

U.S. attorney Michael Yamaguchi called the sting "the largest seizure of fully
operational automatic weapons in the history of U.S. law enforcement."

The investigation into the alleged gun-running ring continues.

While court records and interviews reveal Ku's skill with and fondness for guns
- and a darker side to his unassuming demeanor - his past hardly suggests a
kingpin of international intrigue.

And Ku is the first to say the charges are nonsense, even if he'll say little
else about them. "It's ridiculous," he said, with a trace of his Taiwanese
accent. "I've hardly even had a traffic ticket in my 23 years (in the United
States)."

Son of engineer

Born in 1946, the son of a prominent government engineer, Hammond Ku served in
the Taiwanese army and graduated from college with a degree in metallurgy. He
married his wife, Sophia, at 24. Eight days after the wedding, he gathered the
cash they had received and flew to the United States, planning to visit his
sister and "explore the new world."

"I said, 'This is a really wonderful land, I would like it here, there is more
opportunity,' " Ku recalled Friday. "If you're willing to work, you're almost
sure to be rewarded."

Alone and ambitious, Ku worked three jobs, laboring on the Peninsula at the Han
Palace and a Denny's, and at the Libby Cannery in Sunnyvale until he saved
enough money to bring his wife to America.

In 1975, the couple bought a small, struggling restaurant in San Mateo called
the Cutting Board with Ku's $5,000 savings and a $6,000 loan from his mother.
They worked such long hours that their infant son, Michael, spent most of his
time in a cardboard basket in the restaurant.

But their hard work paid off. Business tripled in a year and a half, and they
sold the restaurant that had cost them $11,000 for a $35,000 profit, discovering
a money-making recipe they would use again and again.

They sank the profits into a house in Burlingame, and into a new restaurant,
Steak Unique, in the Tanforan Shopping Center in San Bruno.

Real estate success

"We always purchase one that is doing not so well," said Ku, "build it up and
sell for a profit and use the profit to buy real estate property."

But at some point, prosecutors allege, Ku expanded his scope of business.

Susan Lin, one of the seven people arrested in the government sting, said she -
like many others interviewed for the story - thought Ku had been dealing arms
legally. He would go to gun shows, she said, and sometimes stop at the San Jose
house she rented from him to use her phone to do business or pass messages.

In a lawsuit filed in 1994, Ku's niece and nephew said he promised to sell them
the Farmhouse, a Redwood City restaurant Ku purchased in 1991, "so he could
concentrate on his new business venture, the import of arms and weapons from the
People's Republic of China."

His son, Michael, 20, said his father would take him shooting at the firing
range, or to a gun show, but he never thought he sold weapons, and certainly not
on the black market. "Why would a man who comes to another country to look for
his dreams, and who starts to build them up, gets a good business and raises a
family here - why would he jeopardize that?" Michael Ku said.

Boasted of carrying gun

But Ku apparently was not always the gentle soul some describe.

In the fight over the Farmhouse, in which Ku faced eviction for falling behind
on the $20,000 monthly rent, the landlord filed for a restraining order, saying
Ku badgered him and refused to leave his Palo Alto restaurant, All Seasons.

"What concerns me most is his statement: 'You are pushing me toward suicide; and
if I go, I'll take a lot of people with me,' " Thomas Nam-Cheng Chang said in
court papers.

Ku boasted of carrying a gun, and he once called Chang's nephew to say "he was
going to take his gun and kill (me)," the papers said.

Although he was married to Sophia, Ku would show up at All Seasons with his
girlfriend, who, Chang said, told him she came along to prevent fights.

Ku insisted on Friday that he had never threatened Chang but was angry because
he thought the man had lied about the restaurant's profitability and had
scuttled two attempts to sell it.

In 1993, Ku sold the restaurant, and he and his wife focused on the Bill of
Fare, the prospering breakfast and lunch house on Saratoga Avenue in San Jose
they had bought in 1980.

At some point, Ku met Richard Chen, a fellow immigrant from Taiwan and also a
restaurateur. Federal officials allege Chen is a U.S. representative of Norinco,
a Chinese government arms maker. He and his wife, Ching Hua, or Jean, were among
the 14 suspects, and one corporation, Dynasty Holding Co., indicted last week.

Richard Chen, free after posting $1 million bail, and his wife, free on $100,000
bail, have pleaded not guilty. They declined interviews.

Like Ku, Chen made his fortune in this country, operating restaurants and
dabbling in real estate. In 1978, Chen opened the Golden Buddha restaurant in
Carmel. Seven years later, he sold it and began a new Golden Buddha in Soquel.

It was in a warehouse in Soquel that federal agents first found evidence of a
gun ring, court papers say. An informant tipped off a U.S. Customs agent in June
1994 that several thousand firearms, imported from Chinese government-controlled
companies, were stashed at Ku's warehouse.

On Dec. 1, 1994, the sting was on, according to court papers. The informant and
the federal agent, posing as a smuggler, met with Ku to broker the first deal.

A small shipment of embargoed firearms parts arrived from China on a commercial
airliner. As planned, the papers say, Ku picked up the suitcase filled with the
parts from an airport locker and placed a $500 payment for the undercover agent
under a potted tree for having arranged the deal.

From there, the papers say, negotiations intensified - a cloak-and-dagger
undertaking that included code names for the weapons, such as "sledgehammers"
for AK-47s and "poppers" for hand grenades.

Another federal agent, posing as an underworld boss from Miami, had joined the
sting. After repeated phones calls and meetings - here and overseas - Ku finally
brokered the deal for 2,000 AK-47s, which were shipped into the Port of Oakland.
Included with the weapons were about 4,000 ammunition magazines.

On March 18, 1996, undercover agents took possession of the weapons, and
negotiations continued for more powerful armaments, including missiles that
could bring down "a big bird," apparently meaning an airplane, according to Ku,
and anti-tank guns, mortars, grenades and silenced machine guns.

Fearing leaks to the news media, federal agents ended their operation May 22 and
arrested Ku and six others, searched for seven more and seized $70,000 from his
Saratoga home.

All told, federal agents wired more than $400,000 to close the deals.

Ku said he wants to clear up the charges and restart his life. "I have a very
deep feeling about this society," he said Friday. "I love to stay here. . . . I
wouldn't do anything to harm it."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Mercury News Staff Writers John Woolfolk and S.L. Bachman contributed to
this report.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Ku
[960609 FR 20A 2; color]
PHOTO: Chen
[960609 FR 20A 3; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              233 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JUNE 12, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

SANCHEZ RECALLS LONG TRIP 19 YEARS AGO, GOLFER FLED MEXICO FOR U.S.

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 3D

LENGTH: 564 words

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich.


They caught Javier Sanchez the first time he came to the United States. He had
hopped the long fence at the Mexican border and scurried away, frightened,
running to escape. Immigration officials caught him.

"They sent me back," he said, sitting on the terrace after playing a practice
round at Oakland Hills, site of this week's U.S. Open.

There was a glow on his face, determination.

Once an illegal immigrant seeking a chance at an improved lifestyle, Javier
Sanchez will tee off Thursday with the strangest story of any of the golfers.

Sent back to Mexico once, he tried again to cross the border at Tijuana. He was
17 and accompanied by an uncle.

"They got me across the border with somebody else's green card," he said. "We
had to pay $50 to this guy. He let us borrow his green card."

He did not get caught the second time.

His uncle drove him to Redwood City. This was 19 years ago.

Sanchez got a job cutting turkeys in the restaurant at Palo Alto Municipal golf
course.

People were out there playing golf, and he had no idea what the heck they were
doing because he had never seen a golf course before.

Spurred on by his own curiosity, Sanchez got a set of clubs and began going to
the driving range. He was 21. It was 1981 and a career had begun.

After enjoying some success at Canada College, he played well in amateur
tournaments through the late 1980s.

"In '91, I decided to turn pro," he said.

Now, long a legal U.S. resident, he is playing in the U.S. Open.

"It's the fourth U.S. Open I qualified for," he said.

Baltusrol, in New Jersey, was Sanchez's first U.S. Open, in 1993.

He has missed the cut each time.

He has won only once as a professional, in the Savannah Open in 1994 on the
Powerbilt Tour. His earnings have not even amounted to lunch money.

But no matter what, Sanchez has hit the American dream.

"My goal this year is to make the cut," he said.

Beats cutting turkeys.
NO INTIMIDATION:

It is a pairing made for Generation X: John Daly, Tiger Woods and Corey Pavin.

They represent power, youthful charisma and skill on a golf course. And they
will tee off at 9:20 a.m. (PDT) Thursday.

"I think it is going to be lot of fun," Woods said. "I know John. I just saw him
on the putting green and he is excited to play. I am sure Corey is just going to
grind away like he always does.

"I think we are going to have a lot of fun out there."

Does he think he stands a chance this week?

"I go to a tournament to win," Woods said. "I wouldn't be here if I didn't think
I could."
BYE-BYE BEAR:

In all likelihood, two quite remarkable aspects of Jack Nicklaus' incredible
career come to a close this week.

This will be the 138th consecutive major championship in which Nicklaus has
played, a streak dating to 1962, when Nick Faldo was 5 years old.

It will also be the 40th consecutive U.S. Open for Nicklaus, a streak that dates
to when Greg Norman was 1. Both of those streaks probably will end after this
week.

Nicklaus is in this Open on a special exemption and he won't come back unless he
earns his way in, he said. He could do that by winning the Senior Open, a real
possibility.

Much less possible is Nicklaus playing in the British Open next month at Royal
Lytham and St. Annes. Unless he plays very well in this tournament, he'll skip
the British and end one of sports' incredible streaks.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: 96TH U.S. OPEN
First-round coverage Thursday from Oakland Hills Country Club in Bloomfield
Hills, Mich.. TV: 8 a.m, ESPN; noon, CH4 CH8 ; 2 p.m., ESPN.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: Sanchez
[960612 SP 3D 3]
PHOTO: ASSOCIATED PRESS
Tiger Woods, right, talks with Jack Nicklaus, left, and Tom Watson during a
practice round Tuesday.
[960612 SP 3D 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              234 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JUNE 12, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

OVERRUNNING AMERICA

BYLINE: TERRY ANDERSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 529 words


PRO-IMMIGRANT groups say the jobs immigrants are taking are jobs that black
Americans don't want. Why is it, then, that when you go outside Southern
California or Texas - to Phoenix, say, or Washington - you see black people
holding the same jobs they used to hold here in Los Angeles? Black people want
to work. But the jobs they used to have, paying $5 to $7 an hour for unskilled
labor, now go to immigrants for $3 an hour.

In the late 1970s, I used to sell parts to body shops, and I knew Americans who
were making $20 an hour repairing dented fenders. Now 95 percent of
South-Central L.A. body shop jobs are held by recent immigrants making $7 or $8
an hour. People claim these savings are passed on to the consumer, but in most
cases the savings go in the shop owner's pocket. In the meantime, taxpayers are
footing the bills for services to immigrants, including education, which costs
on average $5,000 a year per child in California.

Pro-immigrant groups avoid the subject of real jobs like those at body shops.
They invariably bring up the question of who will pick the grapes if you stop
immigration. It's true that Americans won't do that work for slave wages. If we
tightened up the welfare system and paid Americans decent wages, those
immigrants would not have to be brought in at all. There would be plenty of
Americans who would either want those jobs or have to take them.

Today, teenagers can't get after-school or entry-level jobs - something to put
on a resume. When I was 16 and 17, I had jobs at McDonald's, Burger King, Jack
in the Box. Now these jobs in L.A. are held by 30- or 40-year-old immigrants -
100 percent Spanish-speaking and probably 90 percent from Mexico.

We have schools here that used to be 80 percent to 90 percent black and now,
after a period of 10 years, are 80 percent to 90 percent Latino. As this trend
spreads, blacks either can move to other neighborhoods or watch their children
stuck in schools listening to Spanish all day. Yet nobody speaks up for our
children the way the pro-immigrant organizations do for immigrant children. As a
result, our children are getting the equivalent of half a day of school. Why
should our children be deprived?

My two-bedroom house near Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum is worth about $100,000.
A comparable house two doors away sold for $135,000 and the buyers put five
immigrant families in it. A black family can't pay that and can't live like
that.

If you speak up, you're called a racist. I am an American; I happen to be black.
Immigration is a problem for all Americans, whether Latino, Asian, white or
black. We are all adversely affected.

In a New Yorker magazine poll published last month, 58 percent of blacks
surveyed say conditions for black Americans are getting worse, and 59 percent
agree that the American dream has become impossible for most to achieve. This
situation can only worsen with every passing day under our present immigration
policy.

Immigration is not an issue of race; it's an issue of numbers, and they must be
drastically reduced. The only way to accomplish this is through an immigration
moratorium.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Immigration: A view against
Terry Anderson is a mechanic and a member of the national advisory board of the
Diversity Coalition for an Immigration Moratorium. He wrote this article for the
Los Angeles Times.

GRAPHIC: Drawing;
DRAWING: Illustration by Tim Brinton
[960612 ED 6B 1]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              235 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JUNE 12, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

NO, IMMIGRANTS ARE, IN FACT, REVITALIZING IT

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 513 words


WHEN we look around, we don't see Terry Anderson's fierce contest between
immigrants and Americans of color.

The mechanic, in a column above, courageously and accurately points out the
tension between immigrants and the African-American and Latino residents of
South Central Los Angeles. But his argument that immigrants gain at the expense
of urban minorities is based more on myth than fact.

A look at central and East San Jose dispels the myth. Immigrant stores,
restaurants, auto body shops and other businesses have revitalized whole
shopping districts and neighborhoods. Or check out Silicon Valley. Immigrants
have started some of those high-tech companies that are likely to hire
native-born Americans.

Legal immigration isn't broken. In fact, it works darn well.

The United States currently allows 775,000 newcomers in a year, only 0.3 percent
of the population. Little known is that about 200,000 immigrants return home
every year, and net immigration has dropped four years in a row.

Yet some in Congress still want a pending House-Senate immigration bill to
reduce legal immigration and punish legal immigrants. Why?

Among the unproven charges are that immigrants steal jobs, depress wages, mess
up neighborhoods, soak up public benefits and contribute to overpopulation and
environmental degradation. But the fashionable myth of the moment is the one
that says immigrants benefit at the expense of Americans of color. The most
popular anecdotes say that immigrants displaced African-Americans from the
janitorial industry and Mexican-Americans from the fields and packing plants.
They're part of a general belief that immigrants drive down minority wages.

Job displacement has always been one of the major fears about immigration. But
an outpouring of research by liberal and conservative economists since the early
1980s shows that immigrant workers do not threaten American employment or wages.
And when the researchers looked at unemployment, they found no sharp competition
between blacks and immigrants.

What the economists do find is mostly positive. There is some evidence that, in
cities with more immigrants like San Jose and Los Angeles, employment grew more
rapidly or declined more slowly in low-wage jobs and that less-skilled Americans
moved up into better jobs.

Clearly, immigrants are being absorbed into the American labor force with little
adverse effect on minority workers.

Anderson's most valid observations have to do with the decline of neighborhoods
and property values where immigrants crowd into housing. Nobody should live in
such conditions or next door. Poor immigrants will always be tempted to double
or triple up, but they aren't entirely to blame. The real culprits are
unscrupulous landlords and the authorities who look the other way or don't have
the manpower to enforce housing and health laws.

Communities of color have some problems. The road to equality may be blocked by
a host of social, economic and political forces from outside or inside minority
communities, but immigrants aren't to blame.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Editorials: The opinion of the Mercury News

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              236 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 22, 1996 Saturday MORNING FINAL EDITION

CHECKPOINTS FACE CLOSING IN NINE DAYS

BYLINE: Mercury News Wire Services

SECTION: CALIFORNIA NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 105 words


Two immigration checkpoints at San Clemente and Temecula could be closed in nine
days if the Border Patrol does not start operating them 24 hours a day and
adding extra lanes. Under an agreement between the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and Rep. Ron Packard, R-San Clemente, a member of the
House Appropriations Committee, the two goals must be reached by July 1 to
maintain the checkpoints' funding. But as the deadline draws near, the Border
Patrol has not begun around-the-clock operations, and construction of the
additional lanes is not scheduled to start until the fall, said Border Patrol
spokesman Ron Henley.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: State News in Brief

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              237 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                   JUNE 23, 1996 Sunday MORNING FINAL EDITION

THE NEW AMERICANS BUOYED BY HOPE, NEWEST CITIZENS NOT ONLY SURVIVE, THEY THRIVE.

BYLINE: MELINDA SACKS, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LIVING; Pg. 1H

LENGTH: 467 words


ONCE they poured into Ellis Island, chasing an American dream that came true for
many immigrant families of the early century. It wasn't easy, but there were
close-knit families and communities, a sense of purpose and work for those who
wanted a job.

The story of immigrants in the '90's is as different as Ellis Island is from
Silicon Valley.

Today's newcomers must hit the ground running or be run over. They must come to
Silicon Valley with survival skills that won't be shaken by prejudice, language
or job barriers, as well as an educational system that is drowning in children
and families with special needs.

Families who come to Santa Clara County - 144,000 individuals did so legally
between 1990 and 1995 - are lucky to find a place to live, let alone a neighbor
who speaks their native language. And they face the high-tech hustle that
defines life here: Those without education, training and mastery of English are
unemployed or relegated to minimum-wage jobs.

At the same time, Americans continue to have little patience with those who
don't speak English. They are even less tolerant of people still clinging to
"old-country ways."

In some ways, the life of the immigrant family has never been harder.

"When you look at a person you can't tell if they came here legally or
illegally, so people paint them all with one brush," says Jim McEntee, director
of Santa Clara County's Human Relations Commission.

McEntee recalls the state's anti-immigrant campaign that featured television
spots showing illegal immigrants running across the border at night: "It
reminded me of the whole thing that led up to the Holocaust," he said. "If you
can make people appear less human, you can get others to rally against them.
These ads made people almost look like ants or rodents. Then people can look at
them as pests and they want to get rid of them."

Each of today's four family profiles tells the story of immigrants from
different parts of the world, all striving to raise responsible children as they
work to support their family and save for the future. The families in the
profiles range from a recently arrived Russian family just getting a start, to
Tongan, Mexican and Vietnamese families who have been here longer and made the
necessary adjustments.

There are no exact figures on how many immigrant families successfully adapt to
life here. But these four have found ways to maintain connections with their
native heritage while they make it in the outside world. They live without the
instant gratification that drives this valley, taking the longer view for
themselves and, always, for their children.

They measure their success not by the make of car they drive, or by an elite
address, but by the fact that they have jobs, and that they have stuck together.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: RELATED STORY: page 4H,5H.

GRAPHIC: Photos (2);
PHOTO: ANNA MARIE REMEDIOS - MERCURY NEWS
Vasiti Finau, center, with three of her children, Ohevet, Sam and Molitoni, at
their Menlo Park home. The Finaus, from Tonga, arrived in 1987 and are happy to
be in the U.S. but have faced tough times.
[960623 LI 1H 1; color]
PHOTO:
Wendy Nguyen, 50, arrived here from Vietnam in 1977, a widow with three small
children, no job skills and no English comprehension. Almost 20 years later, the
children are grown and excelling. Life in America was not exactly as she
planned. She would have rather run her own business, but she does not regret the
path she followed. "For me I'm satisfied now. . . . I am not searching for
anything more."
[960623 LI 1H 2; color]

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              238 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                 JUNE 26, 1996 Wednesday MORNING FINAL EDITION

WHITE HOUSE SEEKS COMMENTS IN S.J. ON WOMEN'S ISSUES

BYLINE: JAKE BATSELL, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 435 words


The chief of Santa Clara County's largest school district asked Tuesday for
President Clinton's help in making sure that education does not become a
"centerpiece" of California's ongoing debate on immigration policy.

"I believe it's wrong morally and ethically . . . to withhold education from
children who come to our door," said Linda Murray, superintendent of the San
Jose Unified School District. "We have a responsibility to all our children."

Murray's comments came during a 90-minute forum on women's issues at San Jose's
Lincoln High School led by Sharon Robinson, assistant secretary of education for
the Clinton administration.

After listening to Murray, Robinson said: "So the message is, stay the course."

The Clinton administration has spoken out against plans by Gov. Pete Wilson to
use federal immigration reforms as a lever to bar undocumented immigrant
children from public schools.

Tuesday's forum was the latest session in a nationwide effort by the White House
to collect citizen comment on issues affecting women. Twenty local women, mainly
education and business professionals, took the opportunity to discuss a broad
range of topics, including racism, early-education programs and the status of
women in American society.

Lois Freeman, assistant superintendent of the East Side Union High School
District, asked for the president's help in countering those who think public
schools are responsible for many of today's societal problems.

"I think we have been scapegoated," Freeman said. "We do as best as we can with
what we have. He can advocate for us when others are blaming us for everything."

Forum participants also expressed concern about the shrinking pool of
extracurricular activities for students and the exhaustive, time-consuming
process of applying for federal grants.

Robinson said her staff will compile a report on the session and submit it to
the White House. Similar forums have been led elsewhere by Hillary Rodham
Clinton and Tipper Gore.

Phyllis Ragazzo, an assistant principal at Lincoln High, said most issues
addressed Tuesday were of secondary importance to those in attendance. The
primary issue, Ragazzo said, is that women remain underrepresented in positions
of power.

"We are not real decision-making partners with men in this country," Ragazzo
said.

Participants said they aren't expecting the discussion to produce many tangible
long-term results.

"I would have liked to have created solutions, but I don't know if that's
possible in an hour and a half," said Sandy Hunt, a marriage and family
therapist from Sacramento.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


                              239 of 239 DOCUMENTS

                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                  JUNE 27, 1996 Thursday MORNING FINAL EDITION

IMMIGRANTS' IMPACT TO GROW ROADS, HOUSING FACE NEW PRESSURE

BYLINE: S.L. BACHMAN, Mercury News Staff Writer

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1001 words


If you think roads are crowded and housing is scarce now, check back in a few
years when recent immigrants begin buying their American Dream cars and homes.

New immigrants use public transit more than native citizens, and also tend to
live in higher density housing, according to a new study of immigrants in seven
Southern California counties. But after a few years, they begin shopping for
cars and single-family homes almost as much as other Americans.

The trends hold at least two significant implications for Santa Clara County.
First, if not for use by new immigrants, transit ridership would collapse. And
second, if immigrants continue to settle in Santa Clara County at the same rates
as in the '80s - when 144,000 legal immigrants joined 1.3 million people already
here - the newcomers will represent a huge pent-up demand for housing.
Undocumented immigrants will push up demand even further.

"Newcomers have a whole lot less impact than the average native-born American,
but after they've been here for a while they start to catch up," said Dowell
Myers, an associate professor in the USC School of Urban Planning and
Development. They're going to make traffic worse than it is right now, he said,
and further increase the demand for single-family housing.

"They don't buy as many houses when they come, but boy, they're going to catch
up."

In Santa Clara County, housing is already tight and roads crowded, and so when
newcomers begin putting down money on cars and trying to take out mortgages,
demand will skyrocket.

"It shouldn't be a particularly good thing for us here where there is no vacancy
in the housing market and people are bidding up the prices," said Frank
Lockfeld, director of Santa Clara Country's Center for Urban Analysis.

The study, based on census data, warned that planners who ignore the effects of
immigration will make faulty projections about population trends and poor plans
for meeting their needs. The report, which is to be released today by
researchers at the University of Southern California, said most planners base
their work on old data and old models of human behavior that fail to take into
account rapid changes in the size of ethnic groups, numbers of immigrants and
their behavior.

"The immigration of foreign-born residents from 1980 to 1990 accounted by itself
for all of the population growth in the city of Los Angeles," the study said.
"Planning for population growth now means planning for immigrants and their
children."

City planners in Northern California agree that they are only beginning to
understand the effects of record levels of immigration on demand for housing and
transportation. And while immigration levels are lower in Northern California
than in the south, planners are just starting to brace for the long-term effect
that newcomers will have on traffic and housing.

"So much planning goes on, particularly in this state, that has addressed the
suburban growth, which means typically white middle-income neighborhoods, not
generally the immigrant population in these neighborhoods," said Gary
Schoennauer, San Jose's director of planning.

Among the effects they need to consider, the study found that:

* Recent immigrants account for 42 percent of transit users in Southern
California, although they are only 12 percent of the population. They are much
more likely than native citizens to use public transit to go to work.

But after 10 years, immigrants' reliance on public transit is cut in half and
their rate of solo car driving rises - and after 30 years almost all differences
disappear. Immigrant women use public transit much more than their male
counterparts, but they steadily abandon it over a period of 30 years. Immigrant
men, meanwhile, almost completely abandon public transit after just a decade in
the United States.

* Initially, new immigrants form independent households at a lower rate than
native citizens of all ages in the same race and ethnic group. New immigrants
accounted for a growth of 170,500 households in Los Angeles during the 1980s -
but if people in those households had been native citizens, they would have
formed 76 percent more separate households. As immigrants become more settled,
more do move into separate households.

* Newcomers bought relatively few houses, generating only 30,000 new L.A.
homeowners in the 1980s - or one-seventh as many as the same number of native
citizens would have produced. But immigrants who stayed more than a decade
suddenly began buying homes, catching up to the native population.

San Jose's immigrants tend to settle in the same pattern seen in the study. New
low-income immigrants, especially Vietnamese and Latino immigrants, tend to be
clustered in low-income neighborhoods, where housing conditions are crowded and
access to public transit is relatively good, Schoennauer said.

Fifteen years ago, San Jose's planners predicted that household size would
shrink. Instead, from 1980 to 1990, the average household in San Jose increased
from 2.91 to 3.02 people; the state Department of Finance projects continued
growth. When people from larger households begin to move out and look for
housing on their own, San Jose's already overburdened housing supply will be
even more strained.

"Clearly, people are choosing to live in extended families, or choosing to stay
together for economic reasons," Schoennauer said. "They stay there for some
time, until they can get to a place where they can afford to move out on their
own."

Latino families, for instance, typically have larger families than people in
other ethnic groups, and even families at relatively low income levels want to
buy houses, if they don't own them already.

CHART: MERCURY NEWS
Transit, houses and immigrants
Percent of male immigrants who use public transit in 1990
Percent of female immigrants who use public transit in 1990
Buying homes
[Chart not in database]
[960627 FR 8A]

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart

                     Copyright 1996 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved
